ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7737	Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs. I know that there is a significant number of Croatian working bodies in the drive, in other words, that they are sitting right now, but we must move forward in meeting our obligations on the agenda, so let's discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and on security issues, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 80 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in your boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate on this draft law in accordance with Article 164 of our Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received a report from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want an additional declaration? You got it. Here you go. Deputy Minister of the Interior Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7738	Respect for Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, respect for the parliamentary representative and parliamentary representatives. The agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and on security issues properly regulates the issue of ways, forms and areas of mutual cooperation, the issue of exchange of information and the question of the possibility of exchange of liaison officers. The objective of mutual co-operation that will be realised under this agreement is co-operation between the two countries in the fight against crime. The Agreement is also an element of further improvement and further deepening of the mutual cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain. On 24 October 2011, the agreement was signed for the Republic of Croatia by Mr Tomislav Karamarko, former Interior Minister and the Kingdom of Spain, Mr Antonio Camacho, Minister of the Interior. The law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain in the fight against crime and on security issues confirms that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia came into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7739	Thank you very much to the Deputy Minister and the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the committee's working bodies who discussed the proposal want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I open the debate normally in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament we are going to discuss the clubs of representatives, the first club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament who applied for this topic is the HDZ club and the respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government, forgive me, Mr Vice President, I must propose a bill... Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[/Employment: Be my guest.]] Here it is, this is the real bill of law here, so the HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and on security issues. This as well as a number of other bilateral agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and confirmed this Croatian Parliament all in order to cooperate effectively with both the police and other agreements and international agreements and the cooperation of the judiciary in terms of effective fight against organised crime, corruption, terrorism, human trafficking and all the most serious criminal acts. This is about one thing, I would say, a type agreement between the two countries that the Republic of Croatia already signed and ratified in a number of cases. It shall be governed, as the Deputy Minister has said, by the question of working methods, forms and areas, areas of cooperation and possibilities in this case and the possibility of exchange of liaison officers, exchange of information, of course this proposal of the agreement contains provisions which, where co-operation will apply mainly to the most serious criminal offences which are here in the agreement and numbered, but also by some other national legislation when agreed by those parties. The terms of each term shall also be determined in order to be applied unambiguously. Forms, forms of cooperation are established, the way liaison officers will work in case of exchange. Equally, it is important in all these agreements that in particular the way in which personal data are protected that the parties share with each other. This is because this is also another agreement that allows the police to co-operate with each other, primarily to protect citizens from the most serious forms of crime and terrorism, we will support this law. This is about an agreement with a Member State of the European Union with which cooperation will take place very quickly and within the application of a framework decision on a European arrest warrant in which we have recently amended our Constitution, which will then be valid in Croatia since the day it becomes a full member of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7741	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Let's go forward. The next HDSSB representative club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, it is true that this is one of the types of laws confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Spain and this time the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and against those dealing with drug trafficking, then international terrorism, and all for the purpose of protecting these countries from threats that should not be spoken of when I mention these crimes. Therefore, the Republic of Spain and the Kingdom of Spain, in a further speech, want to strengthen friendly relations, although I think they are quite good today, and to promote cooperation between the two countries and, in particular, take into account the common will to strengthen police cooperation between them. This is what is said in the opening statement of the president of the MUP and the exchange of liaison officers. I can't be kidnapped by memories when it's December 9th, 2005. In Spain, Generals and Hero Ante Gotovina were arrested. We didn't have this agreement at the time, but obviously this friendly cooperation or I don't know what kind of action plan it was implemented by almost the same signatories as today's opening statement by the Minister of Interior of the Kingdom of Spain and exactly the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Karamarko. That's not what I'm going to say fatal, but for General Gotovina's fatal date on December 9, 2005, he was arrested right in the Kingdom of Spain. It's interesting that exactly 5 years after that, the main one would say that the employer exactly 5 years on December 10th 2010 was arrested in Salzburg by Mr Ivo Sanader. However, this is not the subject of today's debate, but given the agreement between the Republic of Spain and the Republic of Spain, it is not possible to refer to these facts and to the obvious and good ties between these police officials of one country and another in 2005, unfortunately. Today, Croatia is at the door of the EU, Spain is long ago an EU member, so it is clear that this agreement is very close to the country's entry date, such as Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain, which is already in place. And here we will soon discuss some other countries that are far from the EU like Kazakhstan where around the same type of legislation is proposed in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, international terrorism, and therefore the HDSB club will join those who will raise their hands for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7743	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have thus exhausted the list of registered representatives clubs and the general list of respondents to the debate under this bill. Does the Proposer's representative want the closing word? Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7744	We move on to a statement on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and on security issues, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 80. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's for the final bill? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 116 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and on security issues in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7745	We're going forward on the agenda. The following is: - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of criminal offences, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 79, The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Evelyn Tonkovic, Deputy Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7746	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of criminal offences shall in an appropriate manner regulate the issues of data exchange, expert information and experience within the framework of national legislation with a view to preventing and detecting criminal offences of organised crime, drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of crime. Negotiations for the conclusion of this contract between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan were conducted by direct correspondence in diplomatic contacts. On 5 July 2007, the contract was signed in Astana for the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan by Mr Zeljko Kuprešak State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. By exchange of notes with the Croatian Embassy in the Republic of Turkey No. 328/07 of 5 December 2007 and by note of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Republic of Croatia No. 31-21 278 of 11 October 2011 the two parties agreed on the correction of technical errors in the texts of the contract in Croatian and English within the meaning of Article 39. The Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts, replacing the signed text of this Treaty with the date of 12 October 2011. The Act confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of criminal offences confirms that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia came into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7747	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security want to? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first one was registered for discussion by the Croatian Assembly of the HDSSB and the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although at the beginning we said that these were actually the legal proposals of a typical common denominator here, there are certain differences here when it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cooperation in the fight against organised crime. However, here in this proposal, the law cites both illegal trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances and terrorism and other forms of crime. In addition to being named or spoken about liaison officers in the previous legislative proposal with the Kingdom of Spain, this legislative proposal to confirm the Treaty between Croatia and Kazakhstan discusses the establishment in Article 8. A joint commission composed of senior officials, competent authorities of both parties, so both Croatia and the prosperous Middle East or Asian state of Kazakhstan, with the involvement of experts that they specifically appoint. On the composition of the Joint Committee, the parties shall exchange information with diplomatic means, and meetings of joint committees shall be held,... The Commission shall be maintained as necessary. [[You don't understand.]] The parties shall bear on their own all costs arising from the implementation of this contract, unless otherwise agreed in specific cases. I must say that this to repeat the type proposal of the law is far more precise, i.e. more extensively written, and precisely all the roles that the commission and which both states and obligations both countries are taking. For this reason, and given the good relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kazakhstan and the opportunities provided by cooperation in each field, I would like it to be co-operation in both economic, commercial and any other field with the Republic of Kazakhstan, the HDSB Club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7749	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of crime. In line with what we have said, we support all bilateral agreements and all international agreements that contribute to the efficiency, efficiency and better fight against organised crime and terrorism as a mechanism for the protection of fundamental human rights. Here the situation may be a little different than in this previous law where we talked about the Agreement with Spain for the reason it was an EU member, which was a country with which we have almost equal legal space, I would say legal and democratic standards, and so much this agreement could be less detailed, above all because we have already many equal legal provisions in view of the European acquis. This is about the Republic of Kazakhstan, a country with which we do not have such uniformity of any legal regulation or legal institution. It is therefore noted at first sight that this agreement, as my colleague Grubisic said, is more detailedly motivated and he speaks in detail about the exchange of data, information, experts and experiences, of course calling for it to be within national legislation, but also lists the forms of criminal offences in relation to which cooperation will take place and what is apparent, that he is considering ways of cooperation for a particular group and type of criminal offences. I would say that it is also important here that there is a special article that always speaks of the protection of personal data when they are exchanged that states must protect each other, of course again in the protection of the fundamental human rights of their citizens. Here is why the most severe forms of crime never know the limits, so neither terrorism nor organised crime, nor the most serious corruption acts, are their borders, then both states and legal systems and bodies dealing with the persecution of crime must find an answer to the fact that they too are not hindered by borders in this fight. So we, like other bilateral type-approval contracts, support this one. And of course then we also support an emergency procedure because it's such a nature of the law that it can actually only be confirmed or not confirmed, therefore nature requires an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7751	Thank you, too, Your Honor. This has exhausted the list of persons registered for discussion of the final draft law. The debate on the text is over. We'll vote when we get the conditions on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7752	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of criminal offences, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 79. It's a law we also need to make known. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 116 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of criminal acts, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7753	We're going forward on the agenda. The next item is - Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act amending and supplementing the Security Supplement to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 86. The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in your boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the proposal, the final draft of the law, was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received reports from these working bodies at a bench session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Secretary of Defense Vishny Tafra. Here's your esteemed deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Republic of Croatia, by joining the North Atlantic Treaty in 2009, has committed among other things to be signatories of international agreements that form the legal gain of the NATO Alliance. The final draft law before you confirms the protocol in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The constitution became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Protocol amends and complements the Security Supplement of the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, drawn up in Brussels in 1998, in a way that replaces the security control provision for a new provision on the basis of which the security oversight of all civilian and military elements of NATO and, in accordance with the criteria set out in the Appendix, by the Member States which received the atomic data on the basis of that Agreement shall be carried out regularly during the period set out by the North Atlantic Council at the recommendation of the NATO Security Committee. On the basis of the signing powers conferred by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the former Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to the United States of America, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, the protocol was signed on the Croatian side on 10 June 2011 and will create a legal framework for joint handling with the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of all NATO member states. The implementation of this law in part is the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for defence affairs and also the Central Authority responsible for information security matters. For the implementation of this Act, there is no need to provide for additional financial resources, and the emergency procedure, the pooling of first and second readings has a foothold in the article of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because at this stage the protocol cannot be changed or complemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7755	Thank you very much. You heard the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the legislator. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee's working bodies, the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee want to say? Yeah. Dear Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7756	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 4th session today, so on 10 May 2012, discussed this proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act amending and supplementing the Security Supplement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Cooperation Agreement on Atomic Data with the Final Proposal of the Law. On the basis of Article 64a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the matter as a parent body. Following the introduction and discussion of the law in question, which would require that the comprehensive supervision of all military and civilian elements of NATO and the Member States which received atomic data under the Agreement be carried out regularly but not at least once every 12 months but during the period set by the North Atlantic Council on the recommendation of the NATO Security Committee, and of course in accordance with the criteria set out in the Appendix. The Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Protocol Confirmation Act amending and supplementing the Security Supplement to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement concerning Atomic Data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7757	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. No one's reported for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7758	Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of Protocol amending and supplementing the Security Supplement to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 86. The debate on this final draft law has been concluded, so I am voting on the final draft of the law. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, the Act on the Confirmation of the Protocol amending and supplementing the Security Supplement to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Co-operation relating to atomic data in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7759	Let's take the agenda forward and we'll open up - Final bill on amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 78. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was carried out by the working bodies and by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received reports from these working bodies at a bench session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Marian Cesarek, Deputy Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7760	Thank you very much. In view of the need for harmonisation, and in order to implement the Proposal for a Employment Encouragement Act with the final draft of the law, it is proposed to adopt the Act amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance by emergency procedure within the meaning of the provision of Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provision of Article 6(1)(5) of the applicable law stipulates that compulsory health insurance is to be provided and acquired only by persons who, after completed education, train professionally without establishing a working relationship in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act. For this reason, it was necessary to amend the provision of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act in order to obtain insurance status in the case of a prescribed Employment Encouragement Act. In view of the need to ensure health protection at work, it is also necessary for those categories of insurance undertakings to be complemented by the Mandatory Health Insurance Act in order, under certain circumstances, to be provided with the basis of work injuries and occupational diseases of a particular category of insurance undertakings which, under the special Employment Act, are subject to temporary or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7761	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Whether or not the work-body rapporteurs want to take the floor. No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Let's go to a club debate first. First to debate on behalf of the IDS Club, respected representative Damir Cain. Your Honor, is it? Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7762	There you are, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, P.Z. 78th, so it's about him, okay. I think this law should be reviewed along with this law, the Employment Encouragement Act, P.Z. No. 82. Maybe even that matter could have connected together. The essence of this Health Insurance Act is quoted as follows: "This legislative proposal amends the provisions of applicable laws governing compulsory health insurance and obtaining the status of insurance companies of persons who are trained professionally after completed education without establishing a working relationship in view of the provisions of the draft Employment Encouragement Act, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to the Croatian Parliament." That's why I said it might be good to have a parallel discussion of one law and another. It continues here that the proposal for a Employment Encouragement Act regulates the conditions for the exercise of the right to facilitate employers in order to strengthen employability and encourage the employment of unemployed persons, as well as a simpler way of hiring seasonal workers on temporary, or occasional jobs in agriculture. Furthermore, the concept of employer who can hire on temporary, or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture is prescribed and I do not list all other elements of this argument. It is clear that everything that leads to employment should absolutely be supported. All that leads to employment is clearly to be welcomed. Today I would say that in this country, few people think that they're building something personal and anything like that, that they're investing, quite the opposite, many think that what they own, which they've created for generations simply sell out when they see their companies doing business. That it thus bears a eloquent witness to one of the latest data from the Croatian National Bank that the savings of Croatian citizens have increased by as much as 17 billion kuna over the past three years. And it says that actually people live in some fear, that they don't want to invest, invest, risk the market at this point think. And he's wrong too if someone thinks the sides are gonna boost investment. We just have to do it ourselves, there's money, but there's no guarantee to anyone that this is going to come back. We're just talking about some depression, okay, let's talk about it. Here I am looking just yesterday, today on the portals is called Todorovic, Tedeschko for unpaid tax. All right, absolutely, why not, but why don't you ask what you gentlemen had in '91.? How did you get to the first million euros? I think that's the point. How you bought all those people's treasures that generations had created until then. The employers' associations today express a review of such a procedure by a justified tax administration, but would they be silent if you asked them to wait for gentlemen to own that year in the '90s, '91s, '92? This is a question for Croatian tycoons, not what you own in 2012 because they could probably have achieved all of this from their own. So let's ask them what they had in '91, that's the point. There's nothing left to play, there's nothing left to entertain the public. No one in '91. He couldn't buy anything for years, let alone a feathered woman as Croatian economy says. The same thing is with many simple politicians. Someone could have gotten an apartment or a house in 20 years, but 4 or 5 houses made it very difficult. He could have lived decently, made a very difficult fortune if someone could have made this salary... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's where you're talking? And in order for someone in a few years of executive power to solve all their problems. So for the end, this law is absolutely acceptable to us, this law is fine, this law as I said is the predecessor of the Employment Encouragement Act, and if we want to support this Employment Encouragement Act, it is understandable to accept and welcome this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7763	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is HNS club and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7764	Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this law could go beyond the Employment Encouragement Act because they are directly bound. What is crucial, of course, is already said so there is no reason for me to repeat on behalf of the HNS Club, but this law had no changes and additions, had no public and especially younger generations and younger generations of echoes, more attached to this Employment Encouragement Act, and essentially this law provides them with what they often spoke about by reading Internet sites and forums as we will cook coffee, we will copy, we are not slaves, etc. However, this Health Insurance Act indicates how serious the government’s intention is to ensure the employment of young people, especially now I’m talking about young people, and about health insurance because in fact they will have the opportunity to work in large companies that are not those where coffee is made, and frankly more coffees are not cooked or just copied as they were for some time. Today new technologies and what is important are that they have protection at work, that they have health insurance, and that is very important for employers from their point of view. So it's certainly important to the employer that when he takes on professional training for people, when he gives them a chance to work tomorrow to have full health insurance, they're insured that way. I cannot say, this does not directly reduce for young people in employment, professional training directly costs to employers, but potentially ensures that they will not be able to have any expense if something happens and therefore this Law supplementing the provisions of the current Health Insurance Act is extremely important because it is also a message and insurance that all employees will have the opportunity not to be burdened by the employer, thus providing another additional way of providing and opening space to hire and stimulate, and especially young people to work. Here's so much on behalf of the HNS Club, of course we'll support this law as well as the Employment Encouragement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7765	Thank you very much to my colleagues Gjurkovic and the HNS Club. We are going to the next debate on behalf of the Croatian SDP club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law that is organically related to the topic or law which is the next item of the agenda that is the Employment Encouragement Act, so it is difficult in some way to separate the debate, but I will try, I will only try to focus on this part of the law relating to compulsory health insurance. So this law is the consequence of another law that we will talk about in the next point, which is trying to help people who are in a really difficult social and life situation, who are jobless and who are trying to find ways to get a job on the labour market, either temporarily or in some way get to work or get to know each other as soon as possible to get that job. So to whom this law applies, whose status is regulated as far as health insurance is concerned. Two categories, so people. These are the ones that will be employed occasionally in seasonal jobs in agriculture and for those young people who go to vocational training, so which without, are without a working relationship and who do not build a working relationship but will in some way be in the work process. As for seasonal employment in agriculture, it is finally settled in an appropriate way not in an appropriate way, but in a really good way, good, which is good for entrepreneurs and good for those who will do so. What do they get? They get both of them, both employers and employees, so those who work and those who give jobs will benefit from this. True God, the employer will therefore get the one who does his job, but he will have to pay contributions through the vouchers he buys, so he will have the right for every employee of 90 daily vouchers, and through these vouchers he will pay for that worker who will hire a pension, contribution to retirement, employment and health protection at work, so that a man who is engaged or working to be protected if, God forbid, anything happens to him, any injuries and so on, to be fully health-protected, that he has a possible right if necessary. So, this law is in some way a result of solving the employment problem, but it does work to the end and when it comes to the health insurance system. As for the professional training of young people, especially young people who have no working experience and who go, enter the indirect into the work process just to gain work experience to be ready for the labour market tomorrow. This law also addresses their insurance status, so they become health insurance insurance insurance, and the costs are borne by the state because they are both unemployed, and they are all still unemployed in the employment records of the Employment Office and so the state carries employment, health insurance costs. What do we get with these? This is what we get, so I'd say three things. Let's first show one really good social sensitivity because the people we put in one way or another in the work process, to solve their and health insurance, so that they're not in the gray market, that they're not illegals, but that they really have their own rights, in that sense, like other employees, and in that sense this is really social, from a social point of view, a well-organised question. On the other hand, there is economic importance because it allows entrepreneurs, in one of them, to reach the workforce they need for which they will bear the minimum costs they must, therefore, the costs of contributions, but not indefinitely, not in a time that is not unacceptable to them, but only for the time for which they work, only for those days for which they work. So, not for three months, but in those three months, just for the days they work for. And at the end of the day, it got social, got a businessman, and it's a good thing we're trying to get all the way to the end of the relationship when it comes to employers and employees, when it comes to health insurance. And we're finally becoming an orderly state, which I think is our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7767	Thank you, too, dear colleague. The next debate was registered by the HDSSB Representatives' Club and Honored Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7768	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Gentlemen of the Ministry this legislative proposal actually speaks of compulsory health insurance, in fact, where the Croatian Government is heading and how it intends to resolve or reduce the number of unemployed, and then in this direction in which it pursues or tends to think about hiring young people, particularly young people most of whom are at the Department of Employment in Agriculture and on seasonal or occasional or temporary jobs. I don't know if it's known to this government and the MPs that more and Slavonia is primarily a agricultural region, the main branch of the economy is agriculture, that more in Slavonia the seasonal works in agriculture or seasonals are gone. They used to come from neighbouring former republics, or the Republic of the former Yugoslavia, above all from BiH, and then from other republics. Today on agricultural seasonal affairs they are gone because our agriculture is able to do as it is on its knees. So I'm not going to say a little bit of a groundless proposal, or we're thinking about seasonal affairs that have been developed in some other parts of the world. For example. As the Slavons go to shake the olives, read the horns, in the valley of Neretva reads the Mandarins, and then buy byams or I don't know what. There is no need in Slavonia in the agriculture of seasonal affairs, either occasionally or temporarily. But there are other jobs that are also being done in Slavonia, and people are still coming from Bosnia, less from Herzegovina, but from Bosnia that is neighbouring, and then from Romania also where they are working on the water economy's jobs, cleaning channels 3rd and 4th row where certain owners privately use this institute without paying on black, and without any health insurance, let alone a pension or someone else to save and provide in terms of an illegal or criminal way for themselves, because the daily of these people who come from these areas is far less valuable than the daily of our people. And now one question, if we are already talking about compulsory health insurance and not just health insurance, but just as counterpart Jelusic said here in health care and protection at work, is it binding on those who hire, let's just say that someone hires temporarily or occasionally in the seasons of some kind in the agriculture of those who hire foreigners or refers only to Croatian citizens? But they work without permission to work, Mrs. Zgrebec, as you know, they do, and without permission to work, come for a shorter period of time, and inspections of what kind of inspections are certainly not effective and effective. In any case, the HDSSB club, given the least such protection not only of its kind, but also of the possibility of employment at the next item of the agenda, as Cain said, being on the agenda, and in fact very much related to this point, it is clear that those who accept and who are employed in such jobs are neither human nor ethically to remain without health insurance, without protection at work, and that if they are also credited with retirement during the period in which they work and the voucher is up to 90 days as Jelusic said, better than nothing, so the HDSSB club will be for such a legal proposal. But it opens up a lot of doubts about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7769	Thank you, too, dear representative Grubisic and the HDSSB club. We have exhausted a list of registered clubs for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is a respected representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what you might think, if someone were to take a second look at the fact that in five months, we're changing the Health Insurance Act, you might think that it's a similar practice that was in the previous years that the method of trying and making mistakes correct some of the things that are shown in the practice of the guilty. Fortunately, though, this situation is not about such an example. I will remind myself, by now, that we have already changed or had amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act when we have reduced health care by 2% to make it easier for employers or to remove part of the burden from their backs, and today we have another change that is aimed at increasing employment or reducing the number of unemployed or help both workers and employers. I welcome here we have often actually discussed this emergency procedure or regular procedure, I welcome what this law is going to do in an emergency procedure given the situation in which Croatia is in place and the real need for emergency fire-fighting measures as regards the problem of unemployment. I think a health resort like all other resolutions is required and everyone gives their contribution to solve this problem, here I'm saying this is one contribution from the health resistor. This is about facilitating workers, but also about facilitating entrepreneurs who want to work fair and pay their workers. I, when the minister announced the amendments to this law, spoke with farmers who are here from my colleague Grubisic, claims that they no longer have to hire at all, namely my experience or conversations that I had spoken of quite the opposite. In fact, people are very pleased that we are going into these changes, they are happy that they will be relieved of the situation, because what has happened so far. We know that agricultural work depends on weather opportunities, so if the employer took a worker for a month from that month on that month it could happen to be 10, 12 days of rain and workers don't do anything, so often the employers risked taking jobs on black, they were afraid of huge penalties, but probably some risks paid off I don't know how much inspection was available at all. Now all those procedures for applying for health care, for retirement, signing up for work, and then checking out of all of this will be shortened in one quick procedure, so by buying a valuable bonus, they will be able to get rid of all this together and have a worker paid for both pension and health care and be protected from injury at work, so they will feel safe at their workplace, and the employer will be able to take a worker only for the days when they are really working. The government's goal is not just to ban something but to give the possibility to solve the problem. So here is the possibility that the employer hires a worker as much as he needs, that he does not risk and hire on black. I think this law actually has three important consequences. The first affects the reduction of unemployment, the second introduces order into the system and the third creates a sense of security, primarily for the worker and also for the employer. Working on black I think you'll agree that for a worker it's extremely humiliating and these amendments of the law will hopefully be the past and that's why I think we all need to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7771	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica was reported to your presentation by the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7772	Thank you very much. Comrade Borzan, I think we're somewhere on the same track just saying some things differently. Namely, I warned of what I would say black or as someone says the gray market, the gray economy where people are exploited. But after the season, so at the end of the year, we'll see how many vouchers were used, and then we'll see how effective this measure is. I personally have a skepticism for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7773	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7774	Yeah, so far, I've never wanted to correct an incorrect quote when you were saying it because it's your impression, and this is my impression. So your experience is obviously different from mine but I can tell you that I agree that Slavonia and Baranja, this part of which you have spoken of is not even close anymore the way it used to be, so we have fed the whole former country, and God and the environment. Today, we can no longer produce malt food for Croatia. The fact is that it is a devastating situation in Slavonia and Baranja, but I hope, however, that these measures and the number of vouchers that will be used will be such that we will all be pleasantly surprised together.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7775	Thank you very much. So we've exhausted the list of respondents to this debate, so we're going to conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7776	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 78. The debate on this final draft of the law has been concluded and I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes, 80 votes against 21, abstentions, 6 have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7777	Let's move on to the agenda. Next for discussion is - Final draft law on the promotion of employment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 82 The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with the provisions of Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the working bodies of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership and the Committee on the Economy. You've received reports from these working bodies on the benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System, Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7778	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. You have before you a proposal for a law to encourage employment. Before I move to the scale of the law, I would like to stress that the only real measure that can reduce unemployment in Croatia is the creation of new jobs and the launch of production on which the Croatian Government is working intensively and what we can expect to do by starting production that we will create new jobs and that we will create new jobs for new people. However, it should not be expected that there is a magic wand, that there is a magic formula or that we are going to sleep tonight and wake up tomorrow morning and that everything will be settled. And at the time of the start of production in Croatia it will take us at least 6 months to see the effect of increasing the number of jobs and reducing the number of unemployed. The number of unemployed can be seen on the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute page and three years ago we lost about 250 thousand jobs and that is what the problem of Croatia is. Let me just say that 20, 25 years ago in Croatia, we had 2 million employees. At this point, we have about a million and 400. So opening new jobs, hiring new young people is the priority of this government and the government is working intensively on it. This law, which is before you, aims to raise the employability of young people, to enable them to gain so much of the desired year of work experience, to enable employers who, at these difficult times, still have room to open up a new job, to open this new job in a easier way and to allow them to be freed from those gross 2 contributions on their salary for two years. And the third part already mentioned in the previous debate is the part relating to seasonal employment, black work, a large area that has not been solved in Croatia so far. So what do we propose with this law? By proposing this law, we want to encourage employers to work more easily through an additional reduction in labour prices. This relief has so far been in the Law on Contributions, but unfortunately very little has been used and there is virtually no record of how many employers have used this relief that was passed in the Law on Contributions 3 to 4 years ago. So we have no record of how many employers have used that relief where the saying is that the employer who hires the new worker has the right to be released from gross 2 for a year means contributions on the salary. This came down to the fact that if you have a good bookkeeper who reads the laws well, who realized that it was a possible relief, he made it easier to report it to the tax administration. However, there was no control, so employers who fired workers could use it. There was already an absolute opportunity to get to the unwanted one. That means you fire workers who, by the way, say you have no relief without hiring a worker you're relieved of. You could've hired anyone, whether or not he was in the employment office records. Thus, this bill strengthens the criteria and tightens the criteria for employers who use this measure are employers who pay salaries, employers who pay contributions and employers who do not give business terms and conditions. According to the current bill, as I have already said, the measure could be used by employers who fired workers. This measure will not be possible for employers who have fired workers to be fired, so that business-conditional cancellation does not take into account cancellations that are due to the departure of the agreement to leave the company or to retire. Therefore, it will not be possible for those employers who gave business cancellations 6 months before using this measure and who quit or quit after the application of this measure to begin using this measure or after the end of two years use that measure. The law also stimulates employers to make it easier for a person who has a job and leaves an employee for at least another year. And if that's how they'll be able to use that measure for another employee. We hope that this measure will encourage employers to hire young people, hire people from the Employment Office, and thus create a part of the job that perhaps at this point employers would not open because the situation is economically extremely difficult. Supervisory over this measure as well as the entire law will be provided by the Croatian Employment Service, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the State Inspectorate and the Tax Administration. There are very high penalties for violating this law. It means between 50,000 and 100,000 kunas for a legal person. We in Croatia must be in the position for many years that if we even pass laws, and we cannot enforce laws, we cannot control them, so I think it is time for the laws we adopt and control and sanction in Croatia so that this law will be implemented, it will be controlled. And whoever we catch with our hand or in the jam, we'll sanction him the way he's supposed to be. Another measure that has caused great media attention is a measure of employment of young people without experience through professional training for one year's work. She was misrepresented as volunteering. We have a Law on Volunteering by the Ministry and all of us who have worked on this law. We didn't say at any point that this was volunteering. Unfortunately, information came out of the union that it was a year's work without pay. So the law is exactly the same as it was before. We've never been in a position to have this measure without some material compensation. The measure is not new. The measure is also in the European Union. Europe is now starting with a major campaign to stimulate employers to create jobs, but those jobs for hiring young people but without any compensation. A measure in Croatia that has already been. So, a measure that last year included about 5,000 young people. So, a measure that's not new. However, it was limited only to professions that needed a professional exam or another exam and was then extended to public administration because the public administration had a state exam, and then it was interpreted as an opportunity to hire young people in public administration. However, what is the difference for someone who is an economist if they complete that year's work experience in the state administration and therefore pass a state exam and an economist who works somewhere in the real sector. As far as the profession itself is concerned, the young man’s examination of the state does not mean anything to him if he is not employed in the public administration. And one of the remarks was, well, yeah, we worked for a year but couldn't hire us simply for a reason because there was no employment in the public administration. However, the observation that has been going on in the media for a long time is that no one has taken a job and that no one can get a job. The latest data from the Employment Service that says that 3235 people have been included in this measure so far. So that's where 1525 people got their work experience for a year. From that, it returned to the record of 828 people. However, 697 people did not return to the records. From that it continued to work 459. Of those 459, 37% or 172 were employed by the same employer, so that's where they worked for a year, and 62% or 287 were employed by another employer. Let me now point out that in the experience of Europe and the world somewhere around 10 to 15% manage to get a job after that year where they worked. So we have a higher percentage with this than we expected. Where did these young people get a job? 42.1% were employed in the same profession and 57.9% and 57.9%, respectively, were employed in another profession, but both are in the profession. So, the measure also has its effect in this restrictive section that was limited to public administration only, and what we are saying all the time and we want to prove that expanding the new measure and the sector that can actually employ it will allow a greater number of young people to be employed in their profession after a year. What has fraternised us in this part of the law is that, except for 60,000 young people who are unemployed and who do not have a year's work experience, we have limited it to 29 years because in Croatia we are a little later starting to study, so it is a little longer to study, although Europe admits until the age of 25. We were filled with e-mails and messages from people who were 29 years old and three months old, 30, 32, 35, 36 years old, not even a year of work experience. So they graduated from college 10 or 15 years ago and failed to get a job in the profession. So this measure that we are promoting today and the law we want to pass is aimed right at young people and all those who have failed to work for a year in the profession. One of the objections was to knock down the labour price. So, so far, we've included about 3, 4 thousand people highly educated, the measure is aimed at medium and small enterprises, so it's not directed towards large enterprises they have their own system of getting trainees and how these trainees are educated and we see no reason why this claim is that we're going to suddenly knock down the labour price. When and with this measure we include 10 thousand people, it means 10 thousand from the Employment Service with a year of work experience highly educated there is no possibility of falling the labour price. The acceptance of this measure is entirely voluntary. So the measure is on the market, can be accepted by those who want it, those who don't want it have no sanctions and still remain at the Employment Office looking for that year's work experience in some other way. If a young person after 3 or 6 months of work to this extent realizes that it is not a place for him or that it is not a job can come out of measure and return to the Employment Service without any sanctions, enter that year’s work experience. Also, if a person finds employment or gets a job, he or she is enrolled for a year or a year’s work experience. Also, these people who are to this extent are not kept in the employment records of the Employment Service as unemployed, which is logical because they work for a year, but are kept on another list called – Jobseekers, and will be informed of all possible open new jobs in Croatia. Also, employers who use this measure must be employers who pay salaries, who pay contributions, employers who do not quit. It was the same story that it was for employers 0 kuna, but the employer has a mentor's cost, so he has to pay the mentor, there's a cost that the young person has a job. On the other hand, for those young people who have worked but who have not worked in the profession but who have done something else, they do not fall under the exemption from contributions to health care and an employer who receives such a person is obliged to pay contributions to health care. In addition, unlike the current measures, the employer is obliged to pay the costs and bear the costs of an expert examination for that person. 1600 kuna is small, we know that, but at this point it's what we can give these young people. Another alternative is to increase the amount, but then we can cover a much smaller number of people. We hope that next year when the budget situation is better, when we have more resources, we will be able to cover more young people and more and offer more money in those years. When we talk about 1600 kunas, we know it's small, but we stimulate and talk to both local self-government and employers, yes and the employer on that part to do a certain part, so when we talk about a warm meal, when we talk about road costs. And in some places we have a favourable answer, some cities have already decided that with these 1600 kunas they will compensate for travel costs and the cost of a warm meal. Some have already reported that they would like to add to that part a certain amount of funds. And that's also possible. Therefore, an employer and a local self-government or one who employs such a young person has the opportunity to add more than 1600 kunas of funds to this, pay contributions and pay taxes and all that is to be done. And the third part is the measures that go towards seasonal employment. According to the Employment Office records, last year 2011 we had reported seasonal jobs in the activities of agriculture, forestry and fisheries 2213 jobs, and on the basis of the employment relationship with the office records in seasonal affairs we had an employee of 3801 persons. What we know from experience is that in this area of the economy, over 100,000 people work annually. So, thick above what we have in the records. Why is that? Simply because there was no legal regulation, it was inappropriate for the employer to conclude work contracts for a certain time. On the other hand, if the employer had concluded a contract with workers, then the labour inspector would not have admitted the contract and the employer was punished for illegal work. So this way through the voucher, we facilitate employment because when it's done then it's done whether it's possible that I'm a seasonal worker is possible to work one day with one employer, another day with another employer. On the other hand, we allow flexibility to mean that we can enable seasonal workers to change more employers in the 90 days, and on the other hand we allow the employer to have a secure workforce that is protected by a working contract so that there is no work on black. Each seasonal worker will have a booklet of a seasonal worker in which it will be part of a work contract that protects and seasonal workers that they have all that protection that has the Labour Act. Let's go to the voucher system, so the employer will buy a voucher containing contributions to the first and second pension pillar. On the day when the seasonal worker is working on agriculture, forestry or fishing, the day will be glued to that book, the amount of the daily allowance received by that seasonal worker will be entered, and after 90 days, the maximum is 90 days, the seasonal worker will be able to go to the Pension Insurance Office and enter his retirement period. We allow this wide range of seasonal workers, therefore from unemployed pensioners, occasional employees, and we think this is a good system to reduce work to black, protect workers from working but also to be safe and paid for what they do. On the other hand, employers entering this system via vouchers are controlled that means that there is control of how to pay off the money paid is also the control of employers. There will be rigorous control from the state inspectorate, penalties are dragonous, penalties are here and between 50 and 100 thousand kunas, we will evaluate the measure, we will measure as well as all measures under this law will be monitored daily to see the execution. And what I have to say is laws are passed to apply, but laws and controls are and as far as the bill itself is concerned, the law will allow employers to open jobs faster, young people to raise their employability, and seasonal workers a safe job for good pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7779	Thank you too, dear Ministers of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Mr Miranda Mrsic. Do the Committee's working bodies want to take the floor? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. First to debate on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7780	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I thought I'd start my debate today with Minister Linic's quote on this bill, but I'm risking a warning from the chairman because there's no dirty talk in the House. But he's about to tell his fellow labour minister, just you push that j... law and then we'll start firing. This law is a means of destroying the labour price, because however the minister defends himself from this is wrong because wherever this mechanism is used, there has been a fall in the labour price. This law will reduce the labour price and the average salary in Croatia by at least 5%, and the announced break-up of collective agreements that will start in the public sector and spill over in private for the effects of dominoes, the decline in labour prices will be affected by between 5 and 10%. And these are two well-known tools as labour price attacks, as they meet the requirement to reduce the labour price. The request was not made once, it is repeated every day. And it is an integral part of the neoliberal entrepreneurship climate, a requirement that is repeated from day to day that carries six requirements. First, social peace, to do everything in the state to be social peace. Second, the lower the wage. Third, as affordable and cheaper communication infrastructure as possible. Fourthly, the lower environmental standards, followed by an attack on the school and health system requiring the reduction of their isolation, the attack on pensions, the public sector, and ultimately the requirement that everything in the country should be privatised. This is a copy of the book of the methodology, order and content of the requests to be pressed by the countries. In Croatia we have employees, employees, tenants, workers, trainees, and now we will have tenants. Conversion and privatisation created victims of transition, and according to official data, it was about 500 thousand workers. The financial crisis according to the data from the state description in this law has created a new category of victims of transition, i.e. 151,000 people who have been fired or who are now less employed in Croatia than it was in 2008. Beyond that, the model is being prepared, everything we have will be given to concessions, the entire public sector will move on to the model outsourcing, so external services and then a public-private partnership comes. Three ways, three mechanisms, as everything that's state becomes private, so costs become social and profits are private. When this law was announced, it was said that the only human intention of the promoter is to help young unemployed and long-term unemployed people gain work experience that suddenly all employers so where the law does not require it from candidates for work. And then spinmasters and PRs had a lot of trouble and work to explain what it actually says in this law. Employers ask everyone for work experience. Then I have two questions, firstly how much in Croatia employers invest in the cost of training their workers. According to data that I came up with even 15% of the total cost, how much is the average in the European Union 65%, 65% of the cost of overqualification, requalification, acquisition of new knowledge, skills and ability are invested by employers. We have a 15% thread. The second question, which instruments so far have employers under the law had to come to the selection of the most qualitative people they want to hire. This Regulation shall enter Labour law, probationary work, Article 37. Law on the work of trainees, Article 41 of the Law, without establishing a working relationship, without a work contract, without the right to pay for up to a year of professional training, and there was injustice, because only children of the rich could accept that a year without the right to pay travel by bus, by car, by train, by tram and work for free. The poor children could not benefit from that right. The only positive measure we see in this proposal, but it's not the subject of this law, but the promise that everyone from the state will now receive 1600 kuna fees, so even poor children will be able to work for capitalists for free. And another possibility, which nowhere in the law was given as a grace, but was mass used and that was employment exclusively with a contract for a certain time. Today in Croatia, more than 85% of employees work and live for a certain period of time. But that wasn't enough. Employers have now asked the authorities that these workers who have free and under these circumstances do not pay these 15.4 total contributions to health, employment, labour protection, and those 15.4% of the contributions they have so far paid must remain social costs. And they don't want to pay anymore either, because only with these 15.4% workers say they were too expensive, and that cost is being poured from private to social capital, profit will be exclusively private. And then there's another turn going on, interpreting this law the PR assistants said that this law ensures that everyone who accepts to work for a year for professional training will receive 1600 kuna fees. That 1600 kuna or that amount or that compensation is not subject to this law. This right is not entered or regulated by this law, it is derived from active employment policy measures under specific regulations for 2011 and 2012. I was quoting a description of the situation, it says in the state description, so it's not true that this law introduces 1600 kuna fees. However, how much money for 2012 has been provided by active employment policy measures under specific regulations and the document is valid until the end of 2012. How much money will be made for 2013, 2014 or in the written description of the situation, and today nothing is said about it. The minister says the law includes measures of strict security against possible abuse. So then a few questions, the employer has to pay his salary in time just now or we'll shoot him back two years. Therefore, all who until two years ago did not pay salaries or did not pay contributions, they will benefit from the right. If there hadn't been business-conditional cancellations, when, from the beginning when he received and concluded contracts for professional training, or we'd have analyzed him for a year two backwards. So, I'm not talking about getting rid of contributions, I'm talking about using the right to contract professional training. Who will control the application of this regulation? Peacekeepers, employment and inspection. Go to the field and check the mobility and personnel capacities of the Pensions and Employment Offices to go to the field and exercise control. What's going to happen to contracts on a set, what about those employers who have 85% employees with a contract for a certain time? Could it simply break them all, not extend them, and take only people according to professional training measures. How much can a single employer, i.e. on the number of employees, have professional training contracts? Five times more than the number of workers, a hundred times more, doesn't have to have any employees on the contract to take anything on a professional training contract. All he has, all trainees fired, all contracts at a specified time when they expire not to extend, exclusively use the workforce according to the professional training model. That's what this law allows. But there is more, if, say, an employer of mercy to a worker who works for him for zero kunas a month, for which he doesn't have to pay or contribute, if that employer, say, gave him five hundred kunas, then he'll have to pay the tax on those five hundred kunas, because the state doesn't forgive it. If he gives him his allowance, he'll have to pay his taxes because the state doesn't forgive him. Then let's let the people be consistent to the end, so if the employer pays a hot meal to such a worker who works for free, don't make him pay his taxes. Why would I have to pay taxes on that? Let us be consistent with the principle that you explain these measures. Where are your workers going after a year? Two-thirds back on the stock exchange, it is also visible from the data the minister provided that out of 1600 about those who worked free of charge for the past year were 459, but did not say ministers in which sector. In the state or private, where they took a job, I am really interested in the answer to that question. And it is true, Mr Minister, that in some EU Member States there are such models, but these models are part of a total project to create new jobs and precisely for prescribed professions, professions and professions. According to a pre-determined list, the needs of the state economy are indeed stimulated, compensated, loosened, but only for those professions, professions and professions which, according to the analysis of their employment experts, will be needed in the following year, two, three, five or ten. Not for all, but for what the employment service is, their experts projected that the state would need, that the economy would need either the state sector, either privately, or multinational companies that invested and created jobs in that country. We don't even know how many professors we'll need for each year, let alone how many craftsmen we need to train for tailors, shoemakers, blacksmiths, welders, sellers, economists, lawyers. As long as the catalog of the economy needs we don't have you shooting into empty, deadlocks, training people for the stock market, not jobs. And another difference between Croatia and Europe. Right, in countries where such models exist, Mr. Ministers of the firm who want to benefit from these benefits appear in a competition, in a state tender, and only those who pass the contest, which prove to the state that they have mentors, experts, internal acts by which these people will really be trained only they can make contracts. Not everyone, just those who pass the selection based on the contest. Our law does not provide for such selection. The best ones are selected, the ones that develop most, the ones that invest most, not only in the development of technology and the number of jobs but also in their workers. It is a model and it is true from EU members who are implementing such measures. And I end up with the following, and the International Labour Organisation warned a week ago that austerity measures and such an economic policy bring about a huge growth in unemployment, wage and standards, and called on all members of the international labour organisation, and Croatia is a member of the International Labour Organisation to intervene urgently by increasing minimum salaries. The Croatian Minimum Payment Act in its determination, in the way in which the minimum wage is determined at this time, is not enforceable. He's inconclusive right now. Unfortunately, what I warned about when it was being brought, but if we did apply the model that minimum wage is 39% of the average salary as it was at the time of its adoption in 2008, it should now be around 3050 kuna. Ministers, please, when you will raise the minimum wage in accordance with that provision and the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. I'm sorry for overstepping 46 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7781	Thank you very much. You have Mr. Lesar two corrections to an incorrect quote. First, Mr. Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7782	Thank you. Dear colleague Lesar, it is not true that the question of compensation for persons who will benefit from the measure or the reference to professional training remains unresolved by law. By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Employment Intermediation Act is prescribed by the Office to pay compensation for each person referred to in professional training, which in this case pays the fee and that fee precisely at the level of the non-taxable part of the scholarship. Dear colleague, please read the laws. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7783	You have something else, Agent Lesar, anything else to say? But please do it at the pay phone. Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7784	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Lesar. Namely, he said that the employer's labour cost of 15.4% will be transferred to society and that the profits will be exclusively his, so private, which will collect from the employment of these new workers. That's not true because profit, so if we compare it or say it's about profit is taxed by 20%. So profit will not remain entirely an employer but a 20% share will go to the state budget. A second incorrect quote. The employer, says Mr. Lesar, can fire all his people and hire only these workers for whom the state will pay 15.4%. That is not true, because if a proposal for this law were read well, it would then be seen that Article 5 states that the relief provided for in Article 3 of this Law could be achieved by an employer provided that, during the period of relief, no worker would make a decision on the termination for business reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7785	Mr. Lesar, I'm warning you in advance if there won't be any injuries to the Rules of Procedure that I won't give you my word, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7786	Despite your warning, I'll say what I think. Mr. President, my colleague, Jelash, in the corrections of an incorrect quote, was saying what I didn't say. First of all, I did not say 5.4 but 15.4 and secondly, I said that I would use professional training measures to work from Article 6 below, and she referred to Article 5. What's that now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7787	Thank you. These are some things that you had to say, but I don't think it falls under the Rules of Procedure, but we're going to have another time just as we have, so we're going to try to agree in a different way. Thank you very much. Minister, Dr Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7788	So I understand the desire to defend something that may have run into it at the beginning and declared itself a slave law, exploiting young people, so they try to kind of shed light on the face and defend something that's very difficult to defend, so they don't read things from the beginning to the end, so they don't read two things that go with this law. No law is alone in the world, therefore laws are bound by other laws. This Law binds itself to two very important things, one law, and one measure. Therefore, measures to encourage, active measures to promote employment adopted in 2011/2012. The adoption of active employment measures for 2013 and 2014 is under way. And it's so everywhere in the world. They're brought in two years in advance. On the other hand, it is bound, to Mr Lesar himself, although the law is called the Law on Intermediation and Rights during the unemployment that we brought in February of this year, where it is stipulated in the law that unemployed persons who were included by the Croatian Institute in the measure of professional training to work without the establishment of a working relationship during that professional training have the right to financial assistance at the level of the non-taxable amount of scholarship under a special regulation, i.e. those persons have the right to financial assistance in the amount of 1600 kuna. The non-taxable amount of the scholarship is 1600 kuna in view of the Income Tax Act, and belonging to the Income Tax Regulation where income tax is prescribed not to be paid on scholarships to students and students for regular schooling in secondary, higher and higher schools and colleges to a total of 1600 kuna. So any person involved in this measure under the law has the right to 1600 kuna. I'm sorry you don't read the laws till the end. On the other hand, we have already said many times that we do not want to educate people for the Employment Service and that Croatia needs to change education policy, that the labour market should be corrective. And we also said that we don't want to do what the previous government did, which is to educate people at the Employment Service just to mask the number of unemployed. By changing this Law to mention again so that we can remember the Law on Intermediation and Rights during unemployment, we said that people we send to education and we don't take them off the books because they remain unemployed. So we said we wouldn't disguise the number of unemployed. We don't want to mask the number of unemployed with these either, because at any moment, and now you know how many people have taken this measure. At the beginning of our mandate, we said that the number of unemployed is not a bauk and taboo topic for this government and will be made public and will be seen publicly. Therefore, none of these measures are going to correct or mask the number of unemployed. He is what he is and the reflection is the economic situation in Croatia. As far as control is concerned. The Pension Insurance Institute may be a mastodont, a slow down institution, but it's changing too. One who can give you very good information about which company he hired, what time and when, when he fired, the Pension Insurance Office. If you need information, and you can freely contact them they have statistics for any company that hires young people to this extent. They'll have records of whether someone was fired, not fired, on what grounds. As far as the number is concerned, no company can hire a hundred people. On one mentor who must be highly qualified and have experience, there can be no more than three to five young people who are to this extent. Naturally, there is always the possibility of abuse, and it is therefore the Employment Service that enters into a contract with the employer and which checks whether the employer has enough mentors for that number of young people to this extent. Naturally if you have a company with 10 employees, so there won't be 20 young people in there who use this measure, it'll be 3 or 5 because you have so many mentors. You must have so many jobs. People have to have a place to sit, they have to have a computer, and it'll all be checked by the Employment Service. And he can check it out, because they have capacity, they have knowledge. And so far, they've been working on measures. And when we talk about the competition, the active employment policy measures that apply each year are one form of competition. Employers apply and now for these measures and question the competition. But the Bureau of Employment chooses whom they will hire, whom they will not, which the employer will accept, and the employer is then to choose from the people sent to them by the Employment Office the people who will continue to work. And just one example of how it won't work, it can't go to a public service example where last year's museum hired 5 curators. As you know, there are no jobs in galleries and museums. We've got a curator, we've educated them. We come up with that problem that we're educating for what profession. They completed that year of education, i.e. finished their internship, and this year the same museum applied to the Croatian Employment Service for a new five. The employment office refused and that's how it's done. So, you have control, you know who and the message was to that one town on the Dalmatian coast, the message was gentlemen if you need five more curators this year to open new jobs for two or three, and then we'll be able to talk further. Thus, with control and faith that we can help young people, anything can succeed, and I would ask that laws be read.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7789	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7790	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. Better a sparrow in his hand than a pigeon on a branch, so to speak, the people, and let's just not go too far at this point. This law certainly isn't ideal. I agree with that. It's not perfect. This Law is the epitome of absolute justice, but under the circumstances surrounding us this Law should absolutely be accepted. We can handle that '68 student movement. "Let's be realistic and look for the impossible." But Croatia is really a little different from what the Croatian citizens expected, so perhaps what we expected would happen after the elections. We today in 2012 here I will quote from this assessment of the state literally says that in December 2008 a total of million 518000 persons were registered, while in December 2012, a million 367000 persons employed, or 151 000 101 persons were registered less. In the same period of time, the number of persons who are with the Croatian Employment Service, in the following text, requested the status of unemployed persons and grew up to skip 74 thousand 983 from 240 thousand 455 in December 2008 to 315 thousand 438 in December 2011. What does this law mean? It is short, it has only 18 articles, but the point is simply in the following, I quote: "this legislative proposal, through the release of total salary contributions up to 2 years, affects the reduction in labour prices and thus further encourages employers to employ unemployed persons without working experience", and among other things, it says, "in the proposed way employers will be freed from 2 years of salary payments, while their labour costs are currently set as a contribution to health care 13%, for employment protection 0.5%, for the employment protection of persons with disabilities of 0.2%, totaling 15.4%." And another quote on the 4th of this score is to mention here, let's say, that monthly fee of 1600 kunas, etc., etc. So we can look for the impossible, but the odds are really uncertain. A moment ago, the minister said, he mentioned a company of ten. I say, God forbid this company, I doubt they'll hire an extra one to keep those same 10 people at the end of the year. Is it gonna get better tomorrow? He's clearly not going to, he just can't. Here's Boro used to talk about opportunities in Slavonia, someone else mentioned Dalmatia, opportunities in Istria are also at the very least I'm going to say heavy, painful, uncertain, not flowering roses, so my boss is going to the rose business. But let's let it go now. Many of the systems in Croatia we had literally stopped, the collapse is inevitable. I'd like to make a mistake, but I'm afraid I'll be rudely honest if I say that Croatia on the 2008 parameters won't be before 2018. Or at least six years will take us to reach that one standard number of employees, etc. from 2008, if Croatia notes GDP growth in 2012. If what analysts think happens, the fall, the question is what will happen in 2018. I'd really like to be wrong, but just to tell you one thing. In late March, there were 212,000 317 citizens whose current, jury, savings accounts were blocked in all banks due to a total of 13.08 billion kunas of unpaid claims. If we add to that the blocked companies of our craftsmen, and in total we have about 72 thousand 959 blocked companies with 42.4 billion kuna, then we are already talking about 55 and some billion kuna, meaning that internal indifference in the Republic of Croatia. And it won't just change for the better, it's just real and it's gonna be hard. Let's play even this one I said Zagreb, Istria, we'll do something there, but it'll be really hard. But why, on the other hand, one such law should absolutely be supported, and I said it wasn't ideal, but it's acceptable. He can't just change that law for the better, but he'll give someone a chance like that. And that's why he doesn't need to be challenged by the Priors. Finally, in April 2012, meaning in the month that is behind us, the number of unemployed clearly due to seasonal character began to decrease at the Employment Office for some 22,000 people to 317 thousand people. But it began to shrink due to certain government incentive measures. There was a lot of talk here earlier about whether this law would put the price of work at risk. Please, Croatia will continue to think that people, especially in this real, small sector, will be fired, that they will not be hired, and this is actually what kind of chance for the unemployed, one small part of the unemployed. Does the private sector at this time not matter if it is Istria, whether it is Slavonia, Dalmatia, Zagreb, employment? No, he's firing. Does this private sector make a profit? Now let us monopolies or those who took part in this conversion and privatisation, even though they don't all have roses for them today. In four years we had a number of unemployed, actually this number of employees as mentioned by the minister just before, smaller by 250 thousand people. Actually, it's for 270 thousand people. From the real sector, it means 270 thousand people went home in some way, no one lost a job in the public sector. This law, I would even dare call it the Public Sector Employment Act. It may sound too brave, but I doubt that this small private sector that is most dominantly employed right now can reverse trends in the Republic of Croatia. This law will allow for such employment, yet let us not expect a simple miracle overnight. As far as these penalties are concerned, at the end of this law, I believe that they are, whether someone wants to agree with me or not, dragonish, 50 to 100 thousand kunas. I think the sum of 50 thousand kunas if someone gets caught in a misdemeanor for the first time might be smaller, 10, 15 or 20 thousand kuna. Those penalties shall be charged if, upon termination of the conditions, he loses the right to a relief within 30 days of an uncompensated payment of the obligation to contribute, if he does not obtain evidence from the body responsible for the violation of pension insurance, if he concludes a professional training contract for work without establishing a working relationship, etc., etc. Not to quote all those details. If Mr. Linic said, as Lesar says, and we had a chance to read that statement, "Just push through that fucking law." It is certainly dangerous, but it is to be preserved at this moment in this country by an existing number of jobs. After this law, we have another law on amending the General Tax Code, a law that I somehow translate as taking away property from these small employers, cautiously with it. Why should I say, according to the same conditions, they would not be responsible for the country's opportunities if both ministers and MPs and presidents and so on, etc. Does anyone here really think that 90% of small business entities make what I know about profits? Well, these little subjects are often in a worse position than workers. If we lose that little sector, we're going to lose, I don't know, our survival. I'm sure a large number of us here today in these benches asked to hire someone, but where, in the public sector, I doubt someone private. And once again, I'm going to say that this small sector in which about 90 thousand companies work plus craftsmen, etc. These individuals, they employ about 750 thousand people, in medium-sized enterprises over 100 to 300 workers somewhere around 150 thousand and that big one employs about 150 thousand. But when we talk about income these big 100 big ones make about 50% of the total income in the economy, about 25%, and those who hire 750 thousand small ones are also about 25%. But when it comes to and what's logical about charging the budget these smallest with 750 thousand employees full budget with 50%, medium with about 25% and large systems with 25%. I say a lot of times for this pay phone that each of us here should be given one twist, a trade, a small company, and see what it just looks like in reality in everyday life. I absolutely want to believe that this law can affect employment and therefore should be supported, I agree that we should have an impact on employment for a certain period of time. Those who hire people in a permanent working relationship if it is about employers should in some way be stimulated, perhaps spending after that would live, and we see that by increasing consumption today we get elections in Greece, but we will easily get elections for Greece, one France, etc., etc. The impact on the citizens of this country in these few months has been terrible. VAT from 23% to 25%, electricity, oil I don't know gas, water. We often compare with Europe. What Europe? It would be better to compare ourselves with the opportunities that prevailed in these areas until the 1990s when there was more justice and more socialism. But unfortunately, that will never happen again, I mean that kind of justice and that kind of sociality. All in all, I think this Employment Encouragement Act should be adopted and, as I said, I'll end up with "Better Sparrow in Hand than a pigeon on a branch." That's one little try. Bird's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7791	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7792	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The main engine of economic growth is the accumulation of ideas and effective use of human capital or knowledge and skills. The world economy is becoming highly skilled, high-tech, knowledge-based economy. Outputs or the results of such an economy are products and services that require what, highly sophisticated knowledge and skills. What does that name have to do with these measures? There is, is man the key and the driver of everything. A citizen, a citizen everywhere in the world here and here in Croatia. We are in the economic situation of who we are, we know very well how much the share of the unemployed is, how much the share of the working population is. We know everything and know that it is not easy situations, that personal problems, human problems and that we as a responsible coalition, we in the HNS who take special care of the person about the citizen and the citizen must work and maintain the measures that will help people in this situation. These measures are not crucial, but they are certainly measures that provide primarily for young people who are more than 60 thousand, we heard the minister, who has no working experience. To sit in the house, to be at the Bureau or to work, to have continuity, to remember certain knowledge, knowledge, skills with a small fee or compensation but still a fee, one continuity and space where they can provide what is one of the three key things when they want to work in the employer, and that is a work experience. It is a small wheel, but it will certainly be an indicator over a certain period of time, and I believe it is a successful indicator that young people through this way of professional training can also work indefinitely, but it is not said here, but it is certain that part of the young people who will gain work experience in companies of reputation, in companies that are referenced because these are conditions, one part of which I believe will also decide to go to entrepreneurs with those other measures that this Government provides and encourages through self-employment or the opening of small or medium-sized companies, mainly entrepreneurship. Supporting measures in which entrepreneurs are reduced by 15% pay is quite logical, and quite well and is one of the additional measures with a number of measures that this government proposes to provide as much space as possible and the possibility of discharging labour prices, ensuring that entrepreneurs can choose on the labour market those who can improve both production and services, i.e. create additional value, and what is most important to people who hire to ensure both confidence and stability and family and their children. The farmers are not large, but they are very simple, they are very clear, they provide legalisation, i.e. legal work, they provide health insurance, and everything within all the measures this government is encouraging, which this government is trying to stabilise this country through various laws during this short period of time, stabilise not only public finances, but stabilise a state that knows what it wants, in which way it wants and how it should go forward. And something else on behalf of the HNS Club, and it's about how forward it is, about the labour market. The Croatian Employment Service has often become its own purpose. And its restructuring is necessary, necessary, very fast and very urgent. We need important and clear measures and defining in general the objectives of the labour market and the strategic framework what and how forward in the future with the labour market with supply and demand. What is crucial, and this is what we must have a labour planning policy on individual sectors or industry and ensure access to critical and necessary competences and skills needed in the labour market in the long term. To open the space and cooperation internationally, we are entering the European Union and to analyse the needs of the labour market both in Europe and what awaits us by entering the European Union. We need to secure a system of tracking talents, lead a policy of professional development of the individual and there is primarily the role of the Croatian Employment Service. And what is also crucial and important in these strategic objectives is to ensure a comprehensive and efficient method of assessing different skills and competences on the labour market. Let us help individuals who come to the Stock Exchange, to the labour market, help those who are now and provide entrepreneurs with the best insight into the ability and quality of individuals who are in Croatian unemployment today. Of course, the HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7793	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7794	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, a law is almost interesting in its physical size, with little but great attention. All 18 articles, on pages 8 of the text, and it caused great public attention, a great debate although its physical size and nature do not resemble it. There's been a lot of dust around this law. There is a people's saying which says, "For a good horse is dusted up," so if it is to believe in people's sayings, then this is also a good law, and that is when it has caused so much dust. But you don't always have to trust people's sayings, you have to read the law, you have to look at what is really proposed, which is behind it, so we'll really see that it's a good law. Not because it is, there is great dust, so people's sayings have to be trusted. So, Mr. Minister, you and your associates must have made a good law and it's not hard here on behalf of the SDP club to defend this law, I'm not defending it because our minister and our government are proposing it, but I really am defending it because I think it's good and I'm trying to say in my debate why I think it's good. Before I say that I am not surprised that this law has caused such great attention in the media and in general in public because it solves, it tries to solve the problem of employment and the problem of the unemployed. And the problem of employment and unemployment is one of the most important problems in society. He's important to society, he's important to the economy, but more importantly he's important to every single person in this situation, I'm getting the circumstances of the unfortunate situation. All of us, when we talk about ourselves what we say first, let the man be alive and well, and then after that he does. Because without work, if a man does, he doesn't have a secure existence, and he can hardly be okay. This law is crucial for society, but also for the individual, it has its own social, economic dimension and has its own economic dimension. It is important because, when we look at the data of how many unemployed we have in Croatia in the last two three years, it is always 300 and some thousand and tends to four hundred thousand unemployed, I hope it will not happen, but if the economic crisis lasts longer we are not here but also in the environment it is difficult to expect brighter days. We have all or just a million and four hundred employees who need to support four and a half million Croats, who need to support as many pensioners as almost a million and a half unemployed. It's really hard. We already have a third, fourth year in a row of gross social product declines, I have no growth, we have no development, and all of these are bad numbers, all of this is about an unfavourable economic and social situation. And let's now see what the intensity of this law is, how to help the number of employees increase, make their numbers more stimulating for employers, and for the benefit of those who will work. There are two approaches to this law, it is also visible today in the assembly, and otherwise one is like this I would say affirmative or benevolent, benevolent, bona fide, which goes in this direction how to help, how to solve the problem, how to help the unemployed, how to reduce their numbers, how to get to their jobs as soon as possible. And the other one is certainly unbecoming, unaffiliated, who may seem seemingly affirmative, which doesn't seem to be in the interest of those who are unemployed, in the interest of those who need to start working, but in fact, essentially, it's not, and I'm going to try something later and talk about it. Who can therefore be against this law against these solutions under this law? The one who doesn't understand that. Well, most people don't read the laws, and I understand them, they didn't read the law, so they don't understand, but that's why this debate is to try to explain what this is about. There are also those who understand, but their task is to be against, to see their political position as being theirs to be against, and then try to frame it into this or that. And I understand them, even though I don't justify them. There are also those who understand well what this is about, but this is because of some of their own interests, courtship, or I don't know what, what or whom they're trying to make up and read what's not in this law. Three main measures of this law he's trying to solve. The first is therefore to free himself from the employer of all giving therefore for all contributions to pay. It is known in public, and many of our businessmen say that our work is expensive, that pay is high, and that is why they cannot employ people. So here is finally the opportunity for the employer to free companies from paying and contributing to wages and contributions to employment and protection at work and to contribute to the employment of people with disabilities. So somewhere around 15.4% is on the payroll, he gets rid of it, remains the employer's only obligation to pay the pension insurance and pay the net salary, the salary for which the man works. It's an absolutely stimulating measure, so there's no excuse now that pay is high and that's why you can't get a job. So it stimulates the employer to hire new people. Of course, this does not apply to all the new employees but only to those who, if they can say so, are the most vulnerable, to young people who have no work experience, and a man without a job experience can have a hard time getting a job because everyone wants someone who's already learned something, who knows how to do something, and also to young people who have a job experience, but outside the profession, so there's an opportunity to do anything to earn something, as well as to those who are more than two years unemployed because they are really in a difficult situation. So what does the employer have to do? In addition to hiring him, paying his pension and paying his salary, the net salary, so he must not fire the workers in doing so, he must pay all his employees wages, contributions and taxes. Some say they object why it has to, so it is in order and normal economies and normal states normally to pay workers, to pay contributions and to pay taxes. It's a normal thing, and if it's normal, it's normal for someone who doesn't do it to have such stimulating measures or privileges. Another measure, which is also interesting, refers to seasonal employment in agriculture where employers are also helped, but also to people who will work because it finally allows the situation to be settled, so that no more work on black, that whoever works is assured that if something happens to him has covered insurance, that he has paid contributions, and that the employer does not have to fear if he has people on black, does not have to take people under unfavourable conditions for a certain time, so he does not have to pay for it. So I think that this is also a stimulating measure for the employer, and for those who will work with the fact that they can work on such a seasonal job and are unemployed, so that they do not lose their rights as unemployed at the office, they remain at the office, they are not deleted because of it, but they can also help pensioners who can thus help their low pensions. The third measure, it may have brought the most attention to measures aimed at professional training, or to increasing employability. So it helps young people to train professionally, to gain some practice, to experience work so that they can get a better job tomorrow. So, above all, it is aimed at young people who have completed colleges, who have high professional training, have no experience and can work with private employers as soon as possible only in the public sector. Of course, this also applies to craftsmen who do not have high professional training, who need a master’s examination and are covered by it. The employer has an obligation only to pay them pension insurance, and it is subsequently refunded if all of his obligations as an employer in... the meaning is fulfilled and if this, let's call it working relationship coloquial, it will be successfully completed. [[You don't understand.]] So it doesn't cost him, it's helping the employer get someone to help him work, but above all help young unemployed people get to their first job experience, learn to work, get into the work world and be ready for the labour market tomorrow. The employer is obliged to provide mentors, not to fire workers and, of course, must also pay for existing employees and salaries and contributions and taxes, etc. Here were the words that the employers would compensate with such busy people, that they would fire people, and take people of those who are free of charge, so these young people who would work for them for free and that it was not a good measure. That's what my colleague Lesar was talking about. I can see he's not here right now. I don't know, I don't believe he didn't read the law, and maybe he didn't. I don't know what kind of motive it is to say it, to say what the law doesn't say, but I don't think that's how people who haven't read the laws, don't know what it's about in some way being raised or courted. I don't think that's what this is about, but I'm surprised there's such an untruth that now employers will be able to fire people and take young people from college to work for free. It simply does not allow for this law but forbids it on the contrary. I've talked to two young students recently because I can see that even in the meantime some students' associations have risen against this, that they won't work bad, that they want to work for real pay, etc. I talked to two students and they were, when we... Talk about being against this. [[You don't understand.]] Why does he say, so he says why would he work for the 1600 kunas the state will give us, we want to work for real pay, for full pay, etc. I'm saying right you're absolutely right. Well, I wish I had that in mind if I were you. I'm glad you appreciate yourself, hold yourself, and appreciate your work. And it's okay to think that way. But you're setting up the wrong dilemma. It is not a question of whether you will work for full pay or for 1600 kuna but whether you will do nothing and sit at home or work for 1600 kuna. No one's making you work for this, only those who don't have other options. So, one who can get a job right away on indefinitely full-time full-time, full-time pay where better. Best for him and for us and for the employers and for society. But unfortunately, the situation is such that such jobs do not have much. And anyone who hires a new man wants a man who knows how to do something, who has experience, and this measure is precisely aimed at making people experience, not being a burden to the employer, that they're happy to take it because it doesn't represent any material burden for them, and they're going to learn to work, get a working experience and earn something, that 1600 kuna a month that you want them to do more than or, even while they're studying, they didn't have more allowance. And if they had more, then the team shouldn't. Then they're the children of those rich who don't care. They'll be easy to manage, and we don't talk about them. So the dilemma was a fake. And when we sat down, we talked a little bit then they said yes, you're right, that's right. However, precisely because of the different bad messages in public, people have gotten the wrong impression that here they have an obligation to do or alternative to what we don't, you're forbidden to work for full pay, full-time relationships than you have to do like this. No, it's not a dilemma. It's not them at all, but no one forbids them to work indefinitely and work for full pay. Indeed, but those who can't do it, and unfortunately most of them can't because the situation in society is that the worker doesn't have a place. It therefore allows them to gain experience of being ready for the labour market tomorrow. At the end of the day, there's a big chance that someone gets into a business system, a company that works. Maybe people like it with their knowledge, abilities, values, etc. And they're keeping it. It's a great chance for such people to stay in the system they work in. So when you talk in a reasoned, clear and kind manner, when you have good intentions and when you read it all, no one can be against such solutions. They're not perfect. She won't solve all the problems of the unemployed, but it will help people get to work as soon as possible, to be able to work tomorrow. And that's why this law should be supported. And not because it's proposed by this or by the government, this or that majority supports it, but because it's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7795	Thank you very much. Therefore, let me read that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure expired at 11.53 p.m. for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And by the way, I'd like to inform you that as you can see, we have a few more club representatives, we have 25 registered representatives and representatives per individual debate. And finally, here's what I'm going to do. He didn't end up on behalf of the club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please take a look. I think that's five minutes... on behalf of the HNS Club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I kind of calculated that if the debate lasted seven minutes for individual debates and for representatives who spoke on behalf of clubs. Namely, it's somewhere out there business up to no replicas, etc. Until 1800 hours. It's such a rough bill, but of course I can't judge it all the way. It's all about orientation. So this point today's agenda is going to be long enough. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7796	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to make a partial misstatement. In fact, you said these measures were stimulating for young unemployed. I speak for the club. We're not against these measures. We have some comments, but there is a strong limiting factor in the conditions provided by the Croatian Employment Service, and what would be good to take care of in the debate on this law. It's an age for unemployed people. It is prescribed that the medium professional prepares for 25 years and is higher than or higher than 29 years. That's bad. The essence of these measures should be employed by the unemployed, not their age. If someone ran the fact that I didn't know someone might have finished college later and didn't deserve it. There are few who have graduated from college at the age of 32 or 33. A good measure that, though not perfect, will help young people to work. And someone's 29 years old and 3 months old, and he doesn't have the right to do that either. The age limit should be abolished. That's it, I mean what you should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7797	Thank you very much. And correcting the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7798	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague said employers would not fire existing workers because they would hire young people to perfect themselves in these measures. That may be true, however, it is also true that employers will not hire new workers at least have seats because they would rather take those that are more expensive to them. And it's a simple fact and it's a bad message from this law. He also said that young people can work for 1600 kuna or nothing. That's the truth and that's the sad truth. I guess it's not the government's job to allow young people to work for 1600 kuna or nothing. I guess there's something better and smarter about this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7799	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7800	Here's Mr. President of the Parliament, the proposings, the MPs and the MPs. In fact, this final proposal of the Employment Encouragement Act sets out three groups of measures which, from the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, would try to actually help the current problem in Croatia, and I think we all agree that the current problem of Croatia is the lack of people working. Of course, the lack of people who work is also related to extra people who don't work, so that's how the number of unemployed is both in rate and in number today we can actually say unsuspected proportions. Here are three groups of measures. First they're reliefs for hiring the unemployed. And in previous governments, we have had certain measures of relief for the employment of the unemployed. So this isn't something special new measure here. Here she's just a little bit more elaborate. Therefore, the right to relief in the form of an exemption from the obligation to contribute on the basis of the obligation to pay the contribution of two years shall be laid down. What's the problem? Let's just say, an example of the wood industry that has most of the unqualified workforce. A good part of the company's workers has been on operating contracts for years, contracts are extended every six months. The company has no problem with extending the contract on 1 June of this year to the people it expires for, for them, 60 or 100, and from the Stock Exchange to take over other 60 or 100 of those for which they will not pay the contributions. Well, of course he will. These 60 who will be fired will not or will not fire them, they will simply run out of work contracts that extend to them for 6 months and years and will, of course, receive the other 60 or 100. So what happens now? The company will get 60 free workers, these 60 will return to the Employment Service. The unemployment balance remains the same. Yeah, we took a measure in a way that made it easier for that company to have 60 workers who didn't pay for their contributions. Did we reduce unemployment? We didn't cut it, it stayed the same. Therefore, this law provides for certain regulatory mechanisms only for those employed for permanent employment. However, a good part today employs and receives exclusively to a certain and extends contracts to a certain one. So we're afraid, and it's already happened in similar measures before. And we don't see regulation mechanisms here that would try to prevent these manipulations that employers resort to, so when it comes to contracts for a certain time. Employers will simply spill over, not extend because, unfortunately, when it comes to lower-skilled labour, who will carry the logs or carry them, transfer the palettes or something from the point and at point b, unfortunately most employers are no less likely to take over from the Stock Exchange for the amount of those contributions for which we will release them. So I think that here it was necessary to try to think and develop some additional mechanisms that would just try to protect these so-called contract employees from ending up in the stock market, and only to be replaced by others who will be cheaper for the amount of contributions that the employer will be released for. Otherwise we support this measure, we have nothing against it here in this part. Of course, she won't solve unemployment or employment, but in some way, who will be relieved? It'll make it easier for the employers, get a part of the cheaper workers. And how much it will affect unemployment we'll see very soon in the months to come. Secondly, as far as vocational training is concerned, it is a second measure, which was most written in the media, and it has been quite a bit of a spin as a topic. Therefore, this measure refers to contracts concluded for 12 months for persons who have completed pre-graduate, graduate, graduate university, graduate integrated study, or for 24 months for persons in craft professions. There have been a lot of talk in the public about the amount of 1600 kuna guaranteed as the amount of compensation for the conclusion of these contracts. I would mention that those concerned have expressed dissatisfaction with the measure, so the Assembly of the University of Zagreb Assembly rejected this bill. So the students are not satisfied with that. Also, the plenary of the Zagreb Faculty of Philosophy is also, so students of the Faculty of Philosophy have also shown dissatisfaction with this measure. The fact is that he doesn't have the ideal, but it's really humiliating for 1600 kuna to someone who's graduated college to hire him and that he's been working for a month, man, his parents have given up, his family has given up, he's been giving up for years, and here he is now where with 1600 kuna he's been working for the next year. We still have a lot of examples in the public sector where many work for free continue to intern for free, so they don't get paid. We have a problem, for example, in our hospitals of our nurses who in large numbers of hospitals intern for free, do full-time responsible and difficult work in the traineeship without any compensation. Now the study has changed into some kind of integrated undergraduate 5-year-old study, but only since last year. What about these generations that are still coming? They usually do that internship for free. One hard, responsible job. Many of our fellow medical colleagues have also worked as a trainee for free. Some of us also did it for free and still begged to work for free. Well, here's President Josipovic commended us for working for free. Yes, and here he is, becoming president. These two measures of this professional training for work and relief for unemployed people I say will make it easier for employers to do so to some. Which one? Those who fully and neatly comply with their obligations both to the state and to the workers. This is good on the one hand, but on the other hand we know that for years, and even today at this bottom, the recession we have achieved, some parts of the Croatian economy are clearly exposed to this, and that sectoral support for some sectors has been completely lagging behind. And this measure that one worker is, let's say, so much cheaper annually 10 or 20 thousand kunas can only be used by those who are actually in trouble. Will such a measure be able to use textiles for example? He won't be able to use it. What today's textile company will meet the criteria that it is fully liquid and fully reconciled its obligations to the state? Which one of the bigger textile companies? None. If anyone knows an example, they can contact freely for replication. I'll mention an example of a company in Požega called Sloga. The company currently has debts to the state of 16 million kuna, has debts to suppliers of around 5 million kuna and is in majority state ownership. There are 300 employees, this company is on a carnage like this, it can only be held with systematic support. What's the value of that one job? If the liabilities are shared with the number of jobs at the moment, the company's debt is about 60 thousand kuna per employee. It's not a big debt. How much is a job opening? None can be opened below 100,000 euros, there are no jobs in the industry. And for this company and for many others there are no measures to which not, he says we'll cut off the sick tissue. It's a state tissue along the way, saying it's mostly state-owned. We'll cut ourselves off. And these companies need to be found not to establish agencies but to find some systematic measures to assist these and such companies with certain sectoral support methods and systematic measures. The third measure mentioned in this proposal is employment in temporary or occasional seasonal agricultural affairs. This is about something I've spoken to farmers and most people who hire seasonal workers. So one must be simple and it comes down to the fact that whoever hires the season has one piece of paper and on that piece of paper has information about himself as an employer and about the season and this beautiful one of these vouchers or coupons for every day when that season comes to do the job. These coupons, or vouchers, will buy at the amount said by the minister about when I asked him between 16, 18, 20 kuna, there is some calculation. These vouchers will be covered with contributions for that day and at the end of the period, contributions will be entered on the basis of the paper at the end of the season. So far, most of those who have hired seasons have had to keep writing, writing, walking with them together and usually on retirement, in health care, usually none of them have done it but the seasons have been working on black. This measure is not invented in Croatia, it is a measure applied by other European countries in seasonal employment. She's good. One question, why wouldn't such a measure of similar use of vouchers be used for other forms of human employment for occasional jobs? For example, an aunt who comes once a month to iron. Someone comes to you 12 or 15 times a year to do something, why don't we solve his coming to work in the same way? Some temporary, you need someone's help with some work at home in the same way. So why wouldn't such a model of using vouchers for temporary or occasional jobs be used for a whole series of not only seasonal agricultural jobs but also other occasional jobs that someone does? A relatively simple and effective measure. The second question, when it comes to the employment of pensioners in occasional seasonal affairs, is they not going to sign up for a retirement internship, but did I not notice whether the vouchers in the seasonal employment of pensioners will be cheaper for the amount of pension insurance contributions since they are pensioners? So, will it be equal to a voucher for the unemployed and the pensioners, since the pensioners are no longer allocated to contributions and pension insurance. Here, therefore, we are not against, any measure that will help the Croatian economy, which will help unemployment and increase employment is welcome, but here may even think a little bit about these few proposed things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7801	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Đuro Popioč. Here you go. With Agent Djurovic being exposed, you said he could be a replica, but he can't do it. He can't do it. He can't do it. Yeah, yeah, figuratively but according to the Rules of Procedure, like I said. Here you go. I'm sorry, I've made an oversight, but the minister says he can go behind you. Here you go, Mr. Representative. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're very friendly, but that's good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7802	Well, thank you very much. Allow a few words about the proposed Employment Encouragement Act. Of course, a law that has very safe and good intentions and is truly commendable is the efforts of a minister who is trying to actually compensate for all the bad things that other ministers do to him in the field of labour difficulties to economic operators who have indeed been affected by all these economic measures that this government has made in the past few months, and as he has said himself, will be able to improve the conditions of the labour market and contribute more significantly to the employment of unemployed persons. So, it's important to start by saying because really this blow that took place on these tax laws and increasing VAT to 25%, which was definitely a blow to consumption, therefore the consequence was a decrease in consumption, which is already evident, which of course pulled the immediate and additional result of the decrease in production, and this is already obvious from the latest statistical data and consequently further decline in economic activity, which is also recorded, so Croatia is sinking into negative growth and what has additional job losses behind it. And really, with laws like this, it's hard to fix something more important. However, I say here is a commendable effort to try to do something in that segment. So the law itself deals with three important areas. It further discusses all new reliefs and under what conditions for employment are the entrepreneurs of the unemployed of the special category. And I think it's really good that obviously it reached out for some of the suggestions that HDZ had in its original program where we were and we said that we would increase the time when these benefits will be used from one year to two years, with unfortunately that it might have been more courageous to step out and even decide to free ourselves from paying for the first pillar's pension contribution. This would indeed be a real measure, perhaps even in a shorter period of time, because we know that the limited budget for such measures has always been, and it is at the end of the day, but this would be both a sensitive and a right and a motivational measure for entrepreneurs because it would reduce the labour price by more than 30%. It is therefore important to know that entrepreneurs, businessmen do not hire people because the state allows them to take additional measures such a mild discharge or reduction of labour prices rather than hire when they have a need and when they create new jobs. But I repeat, with everything that's happened and what's happening these days and what the economy and entrepreneurs are feeling these days, so besides a direct tax coup, and despite what one of our prominent economist says, the finance minister is declaring him a statistic. Therefore, the almost hostile and militant relationship of this government towards economies and entrepreneurs is difficult for us to experience the creation of quality new jobs in the real sector. Well, even then, these measures don't actually have measures with good intentions, because simply new jobs won't open and people won't get down just because of new measures for new workers. But here's what might have gone more courageously and had reached out for the subsidy, or here's an offer to get rid of the payment of the first pension stake, it might have been more acceptable and perhaps even more attractive for the adoption of these categories of unemployed people. There is, of course, one trap, so the truth is that only the time of application of these measures is extended, but of course the conditions are tightened. And I have witnessed that what is good and what is not bad and what is bad in the use of certain measures has always been conflicted. And often, of course, what has gone beyond, in the decision itself, what is restrictive, what is restrictive, and especially now it will be because with every good measure, even the measures that could be said to have some effect, you are immediately trying to explain to entrepreneurs that it will be fierce, drastically and uncompromisingly penalized and for some minor failure. Who would normally engage in such acrobatics and use any conditions under such circumstances. And then, of course, the effect of this. Directly this means that you have tightened the measures and that means that you will demote entrepreneurs to enter into the use of these measures, which ultimately helps you because you lack the means to use these measures in your budget. And there's this trick, and that's the whole point of this proposal, so on the one hand you're offering carrots, but your beating is much bigger. But the entrepreneurs, I repeat, under all these things you've done to them these months, of course, they won't be able to achieve these measures, and the effects will be nothing. As for vocational training for work, so you said yourself that it was a measure that of course existed, it existed for the public sector, which was both natural and normal. 5,000 people went through it a year, and your data that you were saying is about one part of those people who were staying in that system. It cannot directly reflect such effects on the private sector and that is the main dilemma. And it can't be the same mechanism and the same expectations in any way, not of course projected that this will happen in the private sector, especially what you're saying about it being for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. On the contrary, I think that this measure should be and should be the only one possible for large entrepreneurs with enough infrastructure, who have enough people, who have enough personnel, a big enough system for people, young people to really get through that system in their training. A small and medium-sized entrepreneur up to 10, 5 or 20 employees really have neither the capacity nor the time nor the ability to deal in such a way as is foreseen here, education and training. But I think something else should have been done here, and maybe it was in that direction that you should have thought about. It was necessary to see if it was possible to motivate and stimulate this mechanism of traineeship that was long known and which most of us had the chance to pass. So the trainee has a completely different status, he's a working person, he's equal, he's fake, he has of course and then the possibility and the entrepreneur himself is motivated and ultimately the person who wants to personally drag such a young man through the whole process whether he's a small, medium or large entrepreneur, and the state should make that financial effort to through this mechanism reduce the cost of that trainee. I think that the effects would be much greater and that there would be a much greater chance at the end of the day for these young people to remain these processes because a lot more of them would go through these processes because the entrepreneur would be reduced by the cost, and those people who would enter that process would, of course, be in that basic feeling just as important, equal as all those who are already in such systems. It may have been a basic idea and a theme to me, but my God, of course you'll say we've had opportunities and we've done it, and unfortunately too little time, but surely in that personal direction we should, that could have thought about it because it's an important different relationship and I think that both the important and the public would react differently to these ideas. And I repeat your fundamental mistake again, and when you may have brought this measure with good intent, you are immediately the second day, of course, pressured by some, here are these statements that all entrepreneurs, employers of Malta are not slave owners and that there will be used by young people to cook coffee. Well, I don't know what the problem is. Of course, you immediately threatened entrepreneurs that they would be severely punished if they would send a young lawyer, engineer, or someone to make coffee on the machine. So what, after all? And yet, of course, it's a huge discrepancy, because obviously you don't know what it is and how it's done in small and medium-sized enterprises and what people end up doing. But also immediately behind such a measure, you went to threaten and tell and talk about entrepreneurs who do not know what will be drastically penalized. And I'd say even ruin that measure at the very beginning. Something that is true and commendable is this third measure, vouchers. It's a shame she found herself in this same proposal, because she's quite a dork here and described and regulated. I believe and expect that the regulations that the minister will bring in charge, so the Minister in charge of finance here is really missing, and the Minister in charge of agriculture is the biggest part, and almost everything here is talking about agriculture. So it would be normal and logical for people who work in agriculture to know the most about it. We have, of course, also broken in time, I say it's too bad that it hasn't been brought before, it's really a question of agriculture, and I suggest and I suggest you put it in yourself that the Minister of Agriculture thinks there's more to it than that. I'm afraid as it is often regrettable that even such good intentions are not ruined in bureaucratic procedures and some of the actions that especially small entrepreneurs, small OPGs, will make the whole thing so difficult that they won't be able to implement it. That's why it would be good and you said so yourself that, and I also know that the Employment Service has the capacity to provide as much logistical support as possible to those small entrepreneurs, small OPGs, to apply this measure. We know therefore that in Croatia there are over 60,000 hectares of vineyards, there are also 60 thousand acres of orchards, and indeed someone must pick it up in the autumn, someone in the spring or when they are already doing it has to cut it. And that's what some people do. We know they're doing it, of course, and so far they've been doing it, and people who came from outside, we know that the pensioners did it, and we know that it's especially big systems, and it's usually good that they always do it, especially some things that pick apples or something like the same, dressed, quality people. And this will really allow the pensioners in particular to do the job in a legal and legitimate way by appealing, so either when they adopt the rules or at the time of all of this, to install in the law and that the Minister of Agriculture himself and all other professional associations and fruit growers and winemakers and all those involved in this work are helping you and suggesting what and in fact and how it should be operationally prepared and prepared to be here and for this season it can also be implemented in person. And that I say will really help all those who do this work and those who are involved. So here's the damage next to the good solutions I say some things that are really unacceptable and inadmissible here. We'll be restrained on this. But here's a good intention no matter what other ministers do to you, your colleagues are doing to destroy the real sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7803	Thank you, Mr. Representative. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7804	Mr. Representative Gjuro Popio said that this government is militant to entrepreneurs. That's not true. This government is militant, has a militant attitude towards workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7805	Here's Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7806	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct this finding by my fellow drinkers that the Government has a militant and threatening relationship with entrepreneurs. That's incorrect, because if that were true then there wouldn't actually be such a mess within business relations, non-payments, mutual obligations, non-payment of taxes and contributions. So, in fact, this has been exploited so far by the malt supervision of certain business transactions and by the fact that only two days after the announcement that it cannot be paid without contributions and taxes by entrepreneurs for 13000 workers pay taxes and contributions. On the other hand, in some countries, employers' associations, and you were at the head of a certain time Croatian Employers' Association itself publish black lists of employers who are making riots on the market, and that the Government has no militant relationship and is saying to workers exactly what it requires to pay for and pension insurance for workers who will work and for a certain time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7807	Thank you. And correcting the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7808	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's interesting to me, too, to be distracted by this inaccurate allegation, so a fellow drinker who said the government had an enemy, militant appearance towards entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, my colleague Popijac often repeats it to this speaker and committee meetings, and then I always have to remind 2% of the decline, reduced contributions, over three billion redundancies of entrepreneurship, the disbursement of interest levels for the total investment of all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. This is what this government has done as its fundamental move through the Republic of Croatia's budget. And what may best be denied by a fellow drinker as former president of the Croatian Employers' Association is the very newsletter of the Croatian Employers' Association. Namely, I've now listed, surfed the Croatian Employers' Association, some newsletters. One of the titles here now stands out for me "The first government moves satisfied craftsmen and entrepreneurs" So I guess the newsletter of the Croatian Employers' Association best proves that this government does not treat them as you said but rather the diametric opposite. And although it is against the Rules of Procedure, I have no option but my colleague Vuksic also missed the thesis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7809	Thank you very much. And now we have the Minister's word, Dr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7810	Your Honor, Mr. President, I will only look back at two previous presentations. Therefore, as regards the measures, they are not focused on medium professional preparation, therefore the medium expert cannot benefit from this measure. It is focused on high professional equipment, but from this high professional arrangement I owe another explanation which has been very strong these days, issues have been severely stifled by the Internet, which is the question of doctors, the training of doctors, the internship of dentists, pharmacists and all others. So they fall, they never, never intended to fall under this measure. Therefore, the internship of doctors, pharmacists and dentists was resolved by the Internship Regulation, and the salary for that internship, so the fee for that internship was settled by collective agreement in health care. Thus, they do not fall under this measure because they are solved in another way. The price of the voucher is the same for everyone, so for every season worker, regardless of whether he was employed temporarily, occasionally employed, he was a pensioner. So the voucher price is the same for everyone. As for the funds, we have enough resources, we have raised 27% for this measure, and we will not question the payment of these 1600 kunas or the inclusion of young people in this measure because last year we had 5,000, this year we think we will have about 10,000 people involved in this and I don't think this law is hostile to employers or this government is hostile to employers. There's got to be order. A country where taxes are not paid, in a country where contributions are not paid is a state that has no solid and solid foundation. Therefore, we just want it to be the order in this country, to pay taxes, to pay salaries, to pay salaries in time, and to make those salaries fair wages for fair work. And that's all we want and I don't think it's hostile or this law is unfair to employers. And just to back that up with the latest data where by April this year while the old measures were still in place we had about 1200 demands from employers. So we can't see that something is shrinking, but we have even now more pressure and announcement and the desire of real sector employers to apply to this measure. As far as big entrepreneurs are concerned, why do I think this is for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? Because big entrepreneurs have their own system of human resources, so they have their own system of hiring trainees. I agree that the traineeship is one of the best ways, but on the other hand in Croatia we are aware that it does not work except perhaps in some large companies. And this is how we can give these young people the opportunity to get that year's work experience. And this measure will stop, I hope, and I want it to stop as soon as possible, when I talk about hiring young people without a working relationship, it will stop at the moment when employment starts in the Republic of Croatia and then it doesn't need to be. Until then, it must be and must enable young people to do this year’s work and be qualified for employment. As far as the voucher was concerned, the application was very simple, Popioč was head of the ministry, and this part I was covering was part of the ministry, so what is quite certain was that the work and pensions were the 13th pig in the ministry and that it was simply that part of 8 years that was practically neglected and not developed. We said that there are two important things in Croatian society, workers and pensioners, that they deserve to have their own ministry, that they deserve to have a minister who will take care of them. De facto for eight years, those two parts didn't exist. That's why these laws that could have been passed before, and they haven't been passed, we won't ask for reasons, but with this law, there goes the rule, unlike some laws that were passed here in the previous years. It goes parallel and the rules on the seasonal worker's booklet, the voucher rule goes, and it's going to be very easy to apply, there won't be any complications. So, the vouchers will probably be bought in FINA, and the booklets will be able to be bought both in FINA and in post office and there will be no high price for the seasonal worker's booklet itself. There goes the rulebook parallel to that of this law. And for the end, there must be order. Without order, this country will not move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7811	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party Retirement Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7812	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Here's nothing epochally new today, or we won't, by adopting this law, solve and pass, but surely it's time for measures to come to a certain normative arrangement of all incentives or at least for the present part of the incentives for employment. I think that this is one step forward, that it should be such a step to support, and that we bring something that will be valid and that will be worth it for all time, it's impossible to imagine because simple life makes us change in walking, to establish bad things, to change them, to correct them, and to install some other areas into laws. What I would like to do on behalf of the HSU Club is to contribute to the debate on this law is that it is likely that some future changes should put in there a category which in the world of work is very difficult, whether it is about older workers between 55 and 60 who offer so much severance to leave the world of work, whether it is about those who have already finished at the Employment Service, so they have the right to compensation and now they have 56, 57, 58 years old men, somewhat younger women, and no one actually will. I want to draw attention to the fact that we're missing an employment-restraint institute that would stimulate companies that when they have such a problem that we give them a relief not to get fired because at the time someone ends up at the Employment Service, definitely in this world where we live today, there is a very, very rare lack of roughness in the world of work and I say it's impossible, but there is very, very rare. In future thinking, then, surely such an institution should be installed and designed. This law brings us, say, three groups of incentive measures. One is related to unemployed people, people who have never been hired and people who are long-term unemployed. The second group of reliefs is related or encouraged by the contract on vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship and the third group binds employment, i.e. regulates employment on temporary and occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture. We have very carefully studied all the provisions of the law and we will try, that is, we have already given certain amendments in terms of some illogicalities which are not at this point crucial to criticise the intention but simply to do and to make their contribution to a better law. We have one formal remark in Article 2(1) sub-paragraph 8 where we have that the seasonal workers in agriculture are considered a physically unemployed person, this physical one is completely excessive. So we suggest that it be purely for technical reasons to clean up that part. Speaking of which, I'd like to talk about making it easier to hire unemployed people. There was a lot of discussion here about the fact that there were no guarantees, that the employer could fire, that he could take another worker. I think Article 4 of Section 2 speaks something very interesting because it's actually a three-year arrangement. If someone wants to use the benefits of two years he can commit a violation, however, there will be an answer. And what's most important, and if he doesn't keep that employee's workman for another year, then he won't get a relief for any of the next. So there's a very interesting provision, you shouldn't talk about some rigid measures that kill every will of employers to hire these people from the labour market but simply set criteria that should be respected. I can't accept the discussion that... Let's loosen the criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, a job without criteria isn't a job. We have to set certain high goals because otherwise the job itself doesn't make sense. In Article 5, we have also given the amendment, we believe that Article 1 in particular, and subparagraph 1 and subparagraph 2 in paragraph 1 are not in line with Article 84. The labour law. In this regard, Article 84 of the Treaty on the The labour law states that the employer is obliged to pay the salary no later than 15 in the month for the previous month. As it is written here, we give another 15 days of credit to the employer for paying the salary, so by the end of the month, so until the pay is due next month. It is that such a way defines the criteria for relief. Therefore, something cannot be defined, something that does not comply with the law as a criterion for relief. So that's what we propose to use the amendment to make use of it. There is an article 8 which refers to the overtime of persons who have entered into a written training contract, it is said that they cannot be ordered to work overtime unless the employer delivers a written declaration of voluntary consent to such work. I think there's a person who has concluded such a contract on professional training without a working relationship is in a rather inferior position and hardly will dare to refuse such overtime. I am not talking about not being able to arrange it for other norms and that this overtime is being paid, but I am merely undermining and stressing the fact that there is a person who has concluded such a contract in relation to the employer in a rather inferior position. Furthermore, in Article 10(5), we have one provision that is not also in line with the Labour Act because we here give an absolute ban on all under 18 years of employment, and we know well that as many of us as we believe we have been doing some work over the summer for a fee and that it was not disputed that we have been doing it under 18 years. We also had practice in our schools and without establishing any working relationship. We've done harder and easier jobs. So I think that this is an absolute ban on anything under 18, which is still out of line with the Labour Act because the Labour Act says that under certain conditions, work relationships can be established and every form of employment and with persons over the age of 15 with a single limit that they are not bonds, so they still do not go to primary school. The Labour Act also has other accompanying sublegal acts that define the very, very precise work of minors. For example, dealings with special working conditions speak exactly where jobs are not allowed for minors because it also affects their psychophysical development. Therefore, I think we have this area very well standardised, that there is no need to be afraid to write here with a minor to write that it is forbidden to conclude a contract referred to in paragraph 1 with a person under the age of 15. We can do that with a clear conscience. And our practice is not bad at all about the world’s practice of working under the age of 18 or over 15. Of course, there are some attempts in every society but it is not something dangerous in Croatia that we should prescribe much more rigorous criteria of this law than prescribed by the Labour Act. I think the criteria and the Labour Act in Article 17 are quite sufficient. It is good in Article 11 that one step finally takes place here regarding the pensioners. Therefore, pensioners shall not, if they are doing temporary, occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture, be required to suspend the payment of their pensions to the beneficiary by the basis of this Article 11(2). And that's the first time you've ever said anything like that before. That's fine. But we have another problem that I will elaborate later. So far, we have had a situation where pensioners were able to work on the basis of an act contract, and by virtue of the Mandatory Contribution Act they were freed from payment of contributions, so there is also this institute. Now we have a new institute that prescribes that pensioners can do seasonal jobs, they can make money without putting their pensions on hold. However, in Article 13(4), we have something that is now in contrast. So if paying for agricultural work is a voucher, then I admit it, the minister said exactly for everyone is a voucher or a bon or as we call it a cash voucher equal, and it includes the payment of contributions. Retired people still have a choice they can work on, so this law did not limit them from working on an act contract, so they have a choice. If they agree with that employer to work on the basis of the voucher, then they are obliged to pay contributions. Then we suggest that paragraph 4 of Article 13 be deleted. Why? Because otherwise we put an unequal position on those who pay for the contribution. This works a lot, and I'm saying what these three months are going to do, but three months here is an effective work that is possible over the year, so effective days are not calendar, four years times three months is a year's internship. The year of internship for the lowest pension users means 56 kuna. It's not a fortune, but since the day he gets that full year of internship, his pension is either 56 or 58 kuna, he's worth so much as a year's internship for the lowest pension. So we suggest that we put all those who pay the contributions on the same terms. So this would be about our constructive contribution to the quality of this law. Of course we expect more changes to be made. I'm not afraid there's going to be over-funds I mean God forbid we have this problem that we need to secure new funds for these measures to encourage employment. I'd really like that, so we're running something. But in any case here is much better than it is so far arranged to open the door of the world of work for young people, for those who have been in the gray zone so far and that what is particularly important to those who have been long-term or who have never worked before. So, of course, we will always be in good faith and critics, but we will always make a significant contribution to the quality of these laws. Therefore, I say that HSU will support the adoption of the Employment Encouragement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7813	Thank you very much. I congratulate you on your reelection as president of HSU. I believe that colleagues and colleagues join that desire. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac's turn on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7814	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The SDSS's representative club considers this bill to be a good measure. A good measure not in this sense will be done much, but given the circumstances in which we lose more and more jobs from day to day and given the circumstances that among those who are unemployed, the number of young people is constantly on the rise, then such a measure with all the risks it carries with it can be considered a good measure. Now allow me a few words about the state of employment or the state of unemployment in Croatian counties. So the Croatian average is, as is the case with an average of something better than what is especially the situation in certain areas where the counties that have over 30% or almost 30% of the unemployed, such as Brod-Posavina County, which has 32% of the unemployed, Vukovar-Srijemska which has almost 30%, Virovitic-Podravska which has over 30%, Sisak-Moslavina is almost 30%, and these are indicators that indicate that employment policy can only be solved by a radical policy of balanced regional development and that employment policy can only be solved by a different concept or a targeted or different concept of border type of employment. Therefore, not only regional but also borderal given the fact that certain industries in certain regions must be particularly stimulated or have to be particularly encouraged such as agriculture and such as fruit growing, such as livestock farming, such as different cultures in these areas, and unfortunately this is happening in a small or almost non-existent manner. But what I'd like to say about this law. This law will partially help people in these areas, especially in that section of seasonal employment that most clubs here have rated as perhaps the best part of this bill. We also think that the measures proposed in that part of the law relating to seasonal employment are a significant step forward in relation to existing practices and the introduction of securities also good measures and good techniques for resolving the status of those employed in seasonal employment status and good measures for the employers themselves. However, what may be missing under such circumstances is quality information for people. It is necessary, in this respect, to bring Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen to an adequate information campaign towards the county and cities in order to ensure that potential users of this measure or those who might decide to use this measure, e.g. Those who have small family households could adequately inform about how they can do so and what is necessary in order to do such things. Another thing I'd like to say is, the one that concerns other measures, and it concerns people who usually belong to a young generation, so they belong to those who have completed their degree in school or have completed higher schools or have completed professional master's degree or some higher degree of academic education. This measure, however negatively welcomed in the first mah in our opinion, regardless of the risks it poses, should also be put into practice and tested in application. Why? In Croatia, up to a few years ago, our statistics included the largest number of unemployed among young people who had a medium professional training and among them especially those who went to higher or higher schools, so they gave up already in the first or second year and were among those who made up most of the unemployed among the young. For the past two years or three years, the number of those who have graduated from colleges, higher schools and higher schools has also started to increase in the share of young unemployed. And in that sense, the measure proposed by Mr. Minister, or your ministry, is a measure that could create a certain opportunity for these people through the programs of professional education, through the programmes you offer them in this second part of the law, which is that such a reference to the employment, on the other hand, might come up with some practical skills or practical skills that will further qualify them for better positioning and that they can have better references and ultimately have pensions, have health benefits, of course, that they have such compensation for the work they do. So it's quite a sure measure that has its own positive dimension. What part of youth warns, especially young people working within humanities and social colleges, is that this will be more favourable to those who are employers than to people who are employed or who are passing this training programme is an observation that points more to the control mechanism. And in that sense, it would be good, Mr. Minister, if here in front of this House further stressed the importance that the ministry and how the ministry will control to prevent the abuse of employers, not to push through from year to year for professional education, which will be freed from certain contributions while at the same time providing itself with labour. This is also, in our opinion, one of the important points at which this measure is proposed by law will be successful or prove unsuccessful. As for the older than 55 years specifically mentioned by colleagues, it is true that this part of the working population, especially the male part of the working population, is particularly affected by the increase in unemployment on the one hand, and on the other hand by employers' policy to reduce the number of employees in which people over 55 are then the first to hit. And there is no doubt that for that part of the working population, an adequate programme should be designed, whether the additions of this law or through some other legal solutions because it is not only a serious difficulty for families, not only represents a serious problem for society but it simply destroys generations that come into adulthood and which then create from these people not only dissatisfaction, not only helplessness, but also because Minister Mrsic is also a doctor, but also increases the safe rate of disease and represents a very safe increase in health costs. One such measure doubtless would be done rationally and disbursed on one side of the state budget. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this bill although we do not think it will significantly reduce or reduce the trend of increasing unemployment, nor will it reduce the risk of further violations of existing jobs, simply because this Law will primarily act or work with those companies that are actually solidly standing or that are sustainable, and those who are not these measures will not be candidates for the application of these measures. I don't know how Mr. Minister stands with announcements and measures that would go in the direction of public works and public affairs. Some local self-government units are practicing it. We do not know to what extent this is happening, we do not know what the scale of it is and whether there are any assumptions in your ministry to strengthen this policy of public affairs and public works. If you could tell us more about this, we from the Club of Representatives of the SDSS would be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7815	Thank you very much. Here, we've finished the debate by the representatives' clubs. He's setting a break until 3:00, so we'll continue the afternoon with the same theme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7816	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one was registered for discussion by distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7817	Thank you, fellow Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's because we're talking about incentives for employment, I think that's a very current problem, and I'm going to welcome every attempt at solving this problem. What is signifying and what concerns me personally as a man and as a representative is the fact that our colleagues on the right hand side of the HDZ assembly so that none of them came forward to discuss this problem. Yesterday, they were gallantly discussing the rights of unborn children, and the rights of those who were already born and looking for work seem to be of no interest to them. Well, that's on them. In fact, given the number of unemployed who are really big in our country, I welcome every initiative to at least try to solve this problem. If you ask me, we are facing two main problems in the labour market in Croatia, which have an indirect impact on employers, directly and in business, which is an expensive, long and complicated employment process. So we have expensive labour. Believe me, I know that from my own experience because I was in a position to look for a job, I often changed jobs, and I know what procedure it is, how much paperwork there is, and how complicated it is actually to the employer. And for that reason, I am very pleased to be working on simplifying these things by allowing young people to gain certain skills that they will later be able to use in their workplace. Of course, this law is not a solution to the problem, this law actually relies on the assumption and our belief that the other legal and illegal measures that this government makes to improve the opening of new jobs, to improve the launch of our economy, our production, and thus to generate new jobs where these young people will be able to get their own state or professional exam. I must also point out, therefore, that I welcome the measures that the Government has already adopted so far, which is therefore the disbursement of the employer in terms of health contributions, and I hope that such measures will continue, and all in terms of the cost of working in Croatia, hence the competitiveness of Croatia's work on the common EU market. For these reasons, I believe that all of us as parliamentary representatives have a duty to support such a law because we are just talking about a problem that is very pronounced in the Republic of Croatia, which is unemployment. So let's give everyone a chance to get some basic predisposition to get a job as easily as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7818	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7819	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. I will go one step further than my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic and I will say that unemployment today in the Republic of Croatia is problem number one. Unemployment today is our biggest problem. And if we don't solve the unemployment issue, then we won't do anything. Without solving this problem, we did nothing. We can do a lot of things, we can take a lot of good measures, but if at the end of our term we don't solve the issue of unemployment, then we fail. And here I will relate to something else that counterpart Hajdukovic pointed out, which is that our HDZ colleagues today are not discussing the issue of unemployment. And they don't argue because when it was time to fight unemployment they didn't do anything. We're in a deep crisis today. Those are words to be repeated, from which you should not run. Today we have to take some measures that may be fire-fighting, and only because at times when in the Republic of Croatia, when in the Republic of Croatia it was seemingly good we did nothing. When they were reportedly good years, when the job was up, when unemployment apparently fell HDZ not only did it not take measures against you, you laugh at your colleague, Cobankovic, not funny, no offense, but it's not funny. When measures were to be taken, when unemployment was to be fought, when preparations were to be made for what happened to us not only did you not do anything but you abolished the measures against unemployment brought by the Racan coalition government. And with that measure, I'm personally tied up because I've been through one of those measures and hired myself. And after I did my year of co-financed by the state, my employer kept as many employers would believe to retain many young people who would be employed through some of these measures that are being proposed today. Now, are these measures enough? Well, thank God we all know they're not. That's what the minister was talking about. These measures are only one part, only one part of the programme that needs to be taken, what we have to do, but they are extremely important. Because if we don't take them, we're only gonna get worse. And that is why I, like many of my colleagues, will be able to speak up behind me in full support of these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7820	Thank you. I now give the word to the esteemed representative of Lidija Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7821	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. First, in my debate, I will focus on one of the important objectives of this law, which is to increase the employability of young people. In Croatia, with the general problem of a large number of unemployed people, the problem of a large number of unemployed young people is particularly expressed. So about 35% of unemployed young people in the Republic of Croatia are at the very top of the EU and it is necessary to do something about it as soon as possible. Compared to 2008, the share of young people among the unemployed accounted for about 25%, suggesting a sharp rise in the trend of youth unemployment. Research shows that employers are reluctant to hire them for reasons that they have no working experience and because they consider their education to be inadequate, and they themselves are not willing to further educate them. Employers expect the state to do so or young people to manage themselves in some way. In addition, young people are the most vulnerable group when they have a job because they are the first ones in line to be fired because they usually have contracts for a certain time. This law builds a bridge that will better connect young people with employers. They will have so much needed experience and practical knowledge that is necessary for more serious competition on the labour market. This finally brings us closer to the practice of developed countries which are particularly concerned about the practical experiences of young people. I would also mention the personal experience of additional training through practice that I went through after college, which I did in the United States. For me, it was very useful to spend time with mentors, and in my case they were hotel managers at different levels, and learning was conducted through so-called. Shadowwing program. The training students spent some time with mentors as their shadows, so they literally followed the usual mentor’s working days with the possibility of questioning areas of particular interest. Thus acquired knowledge is very useful and applicable in their future work. By reading this law, I was interested in what particularly young people think of it, so through conversations with the representatives of the student assembly, I received a positive review of this bill, and the only concern was the students of the Faculty of Medicine relating to Article 6 of this Law, and there was a fear that people who were trained in formal education could be brought into an unequal position, i.e. the conditions for obtaining a license for independent work. I would like to point out, and as the minister here has specifically confirmed that this law does not apply to this group of young people because they are regulated by special rules. And finally, I want to say that this law should be supported because I believe that it will get results very quickly, and in order to reduce the number of unemployed and especially the share of unemployed young people. The experiences and knowledge that this law promotes are of paramount importance so that young people do not report to competitions without success, waiting and getting old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7822	Thank you. The debate will now include the distinguished representative Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7823	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable ministers with a deputy, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's the problem of unemployment, I'll only take one figure, in 2011 315438 unemployed, of which more than 53,000 unemployed without work experience. It is precisely the rate of growth of unemployed young people from 15 to 20 nine years of age that is particularly worrying. Young people finish school, finish college, and really full of enthusiasm move into a new life thinking that they will succeed, how they will work, start a family and be successful. Unfortunately, however, they only encounter bitterness because for years they can't find a job, and one of the biggest problems is when they show up for a job competition that actually employers ask them for a certain work experience, they don't have. Also those who have been unemployed for more than two years, what about these people? So these people are already desperate, they can't find a job, this very law, and by paying them, they're going to help them actually move on and therefore they're going to have some hope of changing something and they're going to become competitive and workable. This law will also extend the circle of persons who can use the training measure to work without establishing a working relationship and that is good. Why is it good, because so far we've only had public service employment, and now we're going to expand that to the private sector. What is important is that these young people will have a working experience after a year. Let's face it, after college, we get a library in our head, mostly in most colleges that we don't really know how to apply. The situation is that employers generally have neither the opportunity nor the resources to leave, so they have several employees who will teach young people how to actually use their knowledge. After a year these young people will be more competitive on the labour market, these young people, if they will therefore work well as counterpart Peja said and stay perhaps in these companies, will work great opportunities. But let's not forget one thing as a long-time professor I have to say, young people are just as old, but especially young people who have been unemployed for a long time fall into a state of apathy. This is how it will work, move among others who work, learn something new, and get a greater opportunity to perfect themselves even more and find a quality and good working relationship. The use of these measures, therefore, I would say active employment policies will indeed enable young people and those who are longer unemployed to be given the opportunity, but I have to touch myself here, and I especially welcome this measure of employment of seasonal workers in agriculture, because I come from a region that is, Bjelovar and the surrounding area is very much related to agricultural works, and this is exactly how daily, so the deal on a daily basis with coupons solves this problem because the fact is that the weather conditions prevent certain, therefore seasonal works and that actually what we had in agriculture, is that we had a bunch of gray economy, so work on black. Since this law also states that all the funds are controls, and they are not small, so I believe that this law and these means of control will have a significant impact on employment to be in regular employment, as well as on seasonal jobs in agriculture, but I also believe that both young people and those who are longer unemployed will be increasing the number to be employed. So I absolutely support this law and I urge everyone else to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7824	Thank you. The distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić stands up to this presentation of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, you said that when young people leave college, they're not actually ready for work, which may even be partly true. But how come so many young people who are highly educated are not ready for work. What's the score? Don't you think that's the result of a very similar move a few years ago, let's open colleges with nominal intensity, let's get to twenty-one percent high-school, let's open the doors to colleges and enroll three thousand economists, three thousand lawyers, thousands of these, thousands of those, why? So to get them off the road, did we have the same problem at that time, at the time of HDZ's government. They tried to solve this problem, so now we reap results, now it's the result of thousands of young highly educated people who actually have nothing to do. It seems to me that this law and this measure of urgency are very similar to that of real intensities. Let's get these young and smart people off the road. They're young, they're angry, they're dangerous, let's get them off the road. We'll pay for them. If someone were to seriously count that most of these people would be able to get involved in the job, find a job in this country after a year, they'd probably ask these people for a guarantee that it's been the case so far with practitioners let's call them I don't know what way to call them, so people who came here to educate themselves for work They signed a contract that would necessarily work, they don't sign anything because they won't work afterwards. [[Employer: Time Representative.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7826	The replica will now be answered by the esteemed representative Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7827	Thank you. Well, I think you're a little off topic, but here I would remind you that yesterday Minister Željko Jovanovic has actually started presenting reforms in education, but I also remind you that HDZ has been in power for 8 years, and that this coalition government is only a few months old and that this measure is not the first step in saying that the young people you say are dangerous on the road, I would not say that they are dangerous, it doesn't matter if they are young or older, that they are moving away from the road. And the question of college and how many quotas are being entered is something our minister has already warned about. So I believe that part will soon go with this law but I'm saying it has nothing to do with this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7828	Thank you very much. The word is now being reported by the respected minister, Mr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7829	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I promised not to answer much, but when someone doesn't accept that he missed the whole goal and didn't score when he started this debate about this law, he says that this is a slaver's law, so in more interviews, we mention the party president who says they're slave owners, so when you get to the point of not saying it, and there's no courage to say we're missing, we didn't read the law well, then we're not reading the law well, now we're turning our attention to another side, to the danger of young people, to the danger of rebellion, from the fact that young people need to be removed from the street. Young people don't have to get off the street, young people want a job. And that's what they want and that's what we do with this way. We can't allow them all, we can't allow them a permanent job but we allow them a year and we ask you to remember it, we provide a year of work in the profession, a year of education, but also a year of proof in front of the employer, but also a year of social contact with some other employers who will recognize this young man's potential and hire him. No employer who is a real employer who sees a young man who is capable, who works hard, will not give it to another employer but will keep it. The problem of this law so far, or this measure, has so far been which has been aimed at the public sector where there has been no employment and then we can talk about whether this measure is effective. But to the extent that it was related to the public sector, we hired people in a much bigger procedure than we thought. Therefore, the measure is effective. Of course we can't hire everyone. This is not employment as I said, this is a measure aimed at young people, not employers, but towards young people who will gain a year's work experience. And listen to these young people who report to the Employment Service looking for their place of employment in order to gain that year's work experience. As for artificial erasing, we need to repeat "Repetio six mother studiorum" again that we do not use this measure to hair the number of unemployed. We have since the beginning said that the number of unemployed public figures that are changing each day and this measure will also be on the Employment Service website where, with the number of unemployed, you will be clearly told how many people are in public works at that time, how many people have been involved in this measure, but we will also publish what is not so used, in how many cases we have provided support for the self-employment of young people. And that's where we change things, and that's where we change things, so I don't know if you're going to say that it's not worth it either, so at the Employment Service, for all those young people who have ideas, who want to materialize that idea, they start their own company, they form and they're going to form suits that will follow them all the time, and not like so far whether they get support, they go to market and sink. It's like throwing a non-swimming into a pool or into the sea and then expecting it to swim. So the measure goes to help these people, to keep them under surveillance for a year from the Employment Service, and to make that measure, in which we make a lot of resources effective. I'm just sorry that he's trying to draw attention to peripheral matters, and he doesn't get the point of this law, and the point is to help young people get to so much of their desired employment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7830	In his presentation, Mr. Minister presented some incorrect allegations of a hardworking colleague, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7831	Thank you. Mr. Minister mentioned the slave owners, I think he was the first to mention the slave owners today, I didn't mention them, I didn't hear anyone else mention them. I don't know if it's subconscious, but the slave owners haven't been in the discussion today, so that's a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7832	Its 10-minute debate time will be used by respected counterpart Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Madam Assistant Minister. I believe that I will continue this series of positive, quality, core discussions with short interruptions from my colleagues from the Croatian Labour Party who, as far as we can see, are only opposed to this bill of law that affirms work and which affirms the value of work so that the presidents of the Croatian Labour Party are very surprised that they cannot accept such a thing. Employment and awakening of the economy is a fundamental strategic goal of this Croatian government and the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law is one of the steps forward towards this goal. What do we have left on the job, the number of employees? In December 2008, we had a million 518 thousand 973 employees in Croatia. Three years later, in December 2011, at a time when this government gets trust, the number of employees is a million 367 thousand 872 employed, 151101 employed less. It is a dedicated staff that has come to this government and that is, the figure that must be raised by these measures and which requires active measures and employment, but also measures through this incentive of employability, according to the law to raise that figure. Unemployment, now said the minister, is no longer a taboo topic, there is no such number, we are not looking for a variety of excuses why this number is growing, we are not waiting for a statistical report, so let's try to change them. Today, the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia is 315944, the number is on the Croatian Employment Office's website. That's the main concern and motive for all of us to cut that number. All the measures proposed in these amendments and additions to the bill are measures aimed at increasing employment, in an attempt to help young people primarily to get their first job, but they are also given a hand to employers in the Republic of Croatia to facilitate their work, but only employers who regularly pay salaries, contributions, taxes, who do not fire workers because of their business conditions as they are in the corruptions in this law. So the Croatian government is looking for partners, among the employers is looking for partners to get out of this crisis that many are being said about today. The measures, said the minister, 27% increase in the budget for these measures, but also strengthening institutions to control these measures, so popularly said the carrots, but therefore also beating through the strengthening of institutions and through the final respect of the institutions themselves, that they are doing their job responsibly, and that the fraud of the state or attempt to hunt in the murky is no longer stimulated and encouraging way of managing in the Republic of Croatia, but rather, those who accept the hand provided by this government will be stimulated and we will help each other to move forward. Three measures, they spoke of them, which are foreseen by this law. The first and the least controversial eye is to stimulate employment in agriculture, seasonal employment, destimulation of work on black and stimulating payments and contributions for those who do so both pensioners and people who in some way help to patch their budgets through the work. I am the data that was registered in 2011 if I am not mistaken for 3800 employees in this seasonal work, and it is estimated that over 100 thousand people worked in agriculture and seasonal jobs, I think it proves enough that the need for these changes and additions that would therefore stimulate and report, but also protection and insurance and all other benefits that would therefore be coming to seasonal workers after these changes and the addition of the law that such measures were necessary to adopt. The second measure, therefore, encourages employment. Continuing continued stimulation, i.e. employment of young people without work experience but also young people, that is, what is the addition, young people without adequate work experience, means those who have had certain work experience, but not in the profession and those who have been on the market for more than two years. These are new measures here. By contributing to a reduction of 15.4%, but orderly payment of the pension contribution, orderly payment of the net salary, so I told employers who want to be partners to reduce through the non-payment of contributions, so a total of 15.4%. These are contributions to health, employment, labour protection and employment of disabled persons. We release those contributions from employers who want to hire them. And the third part of these amendments and the addition of the laws, perhaps and, in fact, not possibly but certainly the most commented today in this assembly, and in the public as well, therefore measures on vocational training without a working relationship. And let me repeat a few facts that the measures proposed today are not, so it's not about volunteering as is often said in the public, and today in this booth, so it's not volunteering, it's about writing it down in some other way, so it's not work without pay. Another incorrect fact is that it is new measures, so it is not so, not inventing hot water just continuing measures and we are coming up with these improvements that I was just talking about. In addition to paying for the work with 1600 kuna, therefore it is not unpaid, so it is foreseen that the state subsidises both pension insurance and health insurance and employment. So, young new employees have it all. The fourth half-truth used in public is that the measure will not be able to be used by all, in fact, that everyone will be able to use this measure to abuse employers. This is not the case, so it refers only to highly educated and part-timers of craft schools who need two years of working hours to pass professional exams. So these irreparable and necessary knowledge, skills and experiences that young people need are actually the greatest benefit of all these measures. Unfortunately in public, and in part today in the assembly are... a measure welcomed on the knife, in good faith, thanks to misinformation, irresponsible statements. [[You don't understand.]] I believe like... win and battle in public, but as well as after affirmative discussions in this Assembly, I believe and through the transfer of the media to our public there is more and more advocates of these ideas. [[You don't understand.]] They are prescribed or the Minister will prescribe more detailed rules for the evaluation of these effects, the effects of these measures taken and I believe and hope that very soon in this assembly that the minister will have the opportunity to refer to the positive results of these measures and I look forward to that day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7834	Thank you. Our views on this legislative proposal will be presented by the now respected representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a discussion from a young person's perspective. I've got three commercials for work. You're looking for a graduate economist, a condition of one year's work experience. Requesting administrative secretary, condition of one year of work experience. An expert associate in the local self-government unit with two years of work experience is required. So today it's about a picture of you at the Employment Office in the Adverts for Jobs. One of the main problems facing young people in Croatia today, unfortunately, is not the question of whether they will start a family, whether they will be left alone from their parents, or whether they will continue after completing their education in the post-graduate study. To young people in Croatia, this seems like a distant future or science fiction. Unfortunately, young people in Croatia today are at the Employment Service, insinuatingly seeking a job in vain, visiting the thresholds of potential employers looking for a chance to pass the law to provide a traineeship, an internship they need to obtain in order to gain a certain working experience and to qualify for further employment and a continuation of their careers. Young people in Croatia have become painfully aware of the economic situation we are currently in. Their wishes and plans for the future are put on hold because they cannot get a chance to prove themselves and want to work, want to build their lives and contribute to the society in which they live. Young people in Croatia feel unwanted because they have to listen daily to most employers in terms of the economic crisis as an intolerable financial burden, unnecessary labour. As employers lay off long-term labour, the team is no longer able to employ young people as a fresh workforce. And while they're in vain trying to find a job their abilities acquired during schooling so far slowly fades and loses their hopes for a better tomorrow. These young people in Croatia are not unrealistic in their expectations and in their demands. They do not expect to be offered a managerial contract in a successful multinational company with 3,000 euros a month's salary after completing the Faculty of Economics. They just want to get a chance to prove themselves. They know that other trainees in other European countries are also underpaid and paid much less than their older colleagues and that unemployment is not a problem that is plagued only by Croatia but also by the rest of Europe and the world, youth unemployment and generally unemployment at a high rate. But they're young and ready to prove it. The only thing they need and what they're looking for is an opportunity. This Law is not filled with magic dust that will immediately employ every young person who, at work, wishes with a salary enough for a decent life. I wish that this problem could be solved by an ordinary act of law. But this Law is neither slave-owned nor suitable for large capital, and it certainly will not cause tectonic disturbances on the Croatian labour market. It only gives the person seeking employment the opportunity to gain a certain working experience and to increase their competitiveness in the labour market and ultimately the chance to find a real job. For let us not forget at the end of my debate, I will also mention that the general declaration of the rights of man in Article 23 guarantees every man the right to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7836	Thank you. A respected Dan Spicer has also applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7837	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Here is also a brief review of this proposal for a law on the promotion of employment. Namely, Croatia is rare when the first or second most important thing in Europe except when we talk about negative indicators. It is also when it comes to youth unemployment where Croatia took a high second place last year in the number of unemployed young people. Even one Greece in which scenes of violence, arson, protests against the poor economic situation have become a daily better than Croatia in terms of the employability of young people, or their unemployment. Today, every third young person under 30 is unemployed in Croatia, and in the total number of unemployed in Croatia, young people today account for as much as 40%. To better understand how the situation really got worse a couple of years ago I'm going to give you a comparison. In 2008, young people accounted for 25% of all unemployed. Today, like I said, they make 40%. Young people are the most vulnerable group, and when they have a job, colleague Bagaric talked about it precisely because they are most often employed on contracts on a fixed basis, and when they get laid off, when labour cuts occur, they are fired among the first. But they're also the most vulnerable group among those who don't have a job. Three basic reasons why unemployment is so high among young people today. Number one, we still have too few highly educated, twice as much as it is on average in the Member States of the European Union. Under number two, the education system is not in compliance with labour market needs at all. We educate young people for the stock market instead of for occupations for which there is a real need. And under number three, young people don't have enough work experience and aren't interested in the labour market. Young people with no experience are simply overpriced by employers because in the first year or more, their value is difficult to achieve. But what may and may not be the worst are precisely the consequences that unemployment is particularly long - term, causing and leaving young people to be affected and reflected in society as a whole. According to certain surveys, young people as the most common causes of their own unemployment point to working inexperience, but immediately after employment by the system of connections, acquaintances and general corruption. What is most pronounced in research is precisely from the position and perspective of young unemployed people is precisely an experience of injustice, discrimination and abandonment by persons and institutions who have the power and the possibility of influence. Young people expect the most from the state, and they get the least from it. Such results contribute to the theory of social exclusion as exclusions from a number of areas of life where unemployment plays a key and central role. Unemployment has an impact on material but perhaps even more important to say what is less talked about today but also on the material aspects of young people’s lives. Young people perceive themselves as dysfunctional, unproductive, unnecessary. Among them is the intruding and growing feeling of apathy, uselessness, imperceptibility, depression. In the end, such feelings of course extend and drag to the rest of society. But no matter how much that phenomenon scares us, we can't be surprised. The generations of young people were raised on completely depraved and depraved values of the narrow circle of successful, happy and rich were the goal, and corruption, nepotism and general folk robbery were the means. It was in the hands of those who, ladies and gentlemen, promised light and perspective youth while stealing their future at the same time. I find it extremely important to have knowledge and to realize that today's position of young people is not accidental and is not just inherited by a global crisis. It is also our domestic product, the way we have treated young people for years and looked at young people as a problem is what we need to change because young people are not a problem, they are not a weight they are our opportunity and the chance to build a better society and get this society and this country out of the fungi. And that is why this law, which I hope we will support, especially in the part of encouraging the employment of unemployed young people, gives young people exactly what is most important, gives them a chance and an opportunity. An opportunity to become a responsible and functional part of society, an opportunity to further education with work and learn new skills and knowledge. A chance to meet new people and new ideas. The opportunity to become more competitive in the labour market tomorrow with experience. In the end, it gives them the opportunity to get paid with all these contributions, to do their internships, and to make some money. Aware of the fact that these measures will not solve the overall unemployment in Croatia, but that we will help thousands of young people in their professional lives I suggest that you vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7838	Thank you. I now give the word to my esteemed colleague, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Minister, Madam Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Why are we in Croatia discussing unemployment so much, somewhat less employment? Because it's one of the burning problems of our economy and, consequently, all the other systems that connect to it from pension, health, social, etc. So, these days every day we can read about the state of unemployment on the Croatian Employment Service website. A colleague, Radjenovic, said it was today, and I looked at 317 thousand 242 at the same time, at the same time offered 5000 593 seats. So, not enough, too little and mostly seasonal jobs in tourism and perhaps little and some other jobs. When we look at the structure of the unemployed at the end of the 3rd month of this year, then we see that without working experience 17% of the total unemployed. However, the worrying fact that young people without work experience are perceived by 54%, and those who are long-term unemployed for more than two years, and we know that some are waiting for 5.6 years and some who will never be able to get a job because they are at such a age and with such qualifications as they are practically unemployed at all, is 43% in the structure of those who were unemployed at the end of the 3rd month of this year. If this had been seen quite early, we had already had the first active employment policy measures in the early 2000s, but in the EU accession process in 2008, Croatia, in cooperation with the European Commission, developed a common memorandum on employment policy priorities. And they started, the new cycle of active employment measures began, and the National Employment Encouraging Plan was adopted in 2011, which means that from now on we will have pre-planned such incentive measures for the next two years. The minister has already said here they're in the works for the next two years. So which target groups were identified? These are women of primary age, older people, young, long-term unemployed. So four years ago we realized that, and now that we're looking at this structure that was at the end of the first quarter, we haven't actually made any moves. So we have four lost years. What are the objectives of this national plan, that is, by the common memorandum? That this is a reduction in skills and skills of labour with labour market needs, that it is necessary to improve the adaptability of workers and businesses, that good governance should be done and administrative capacity built. If we went to each of these goals to reanalyze, we would see that we did not do much. So we get a good look at the problems, but we're bad at realisation. And now that we have a bill of one law, how do we discuss it? We're discussing him that it's a blow to entrepreneurship, that it's a militaristic approach to entrepreneurs, that we're going to knock down the labour price, so here we've heard through replicas and corrections that only our desire is kind of political to get young people off the street because they could be dangerous to power. So the government and the government must seek and propose measures. They can be efficient, less efficient, good, less good, but the political opposition isn't just here to discuss it this way because this is a problem that should concern all and us who are in politics and employers, entrepreneurs, employees, so our whole society. It's not some kind of world view of the world, it's neither religious nor otherwise, so it's something that affects everyone sooner or later. It's something like that. healthcare, sooner or later, each of us needs a doctor. We also have a low-employment problem. We are at the employment rate compared to the working active population at the bottom of Europe. The European Union has declared a 70% rate. Some countries have even exceeded that. So we still have a lot of work to do to reach 55, 60% because now we're just over 40%. Low employment actually creates problems for us both in the pension system and in the health system and in the social system, and in this kind of, other upgrade because we see from year to year that our deficit in the budget is increasing because we cannot actually finance from these primary contributions neither pensions nor health care. And therefore, in addition to these measures that the Croatian Employment Service is currently implementing as active employment measures which are currently five so for young people without work experience, for long-term unemployed persons who are in the unit for more than 12 months, for people over 50 years of life, for persons with disabilities and for the last group of unemployed who are thinking about defenders, parents with four and more underage children, single parents, treated addicts, etc. So, with these measures already being implemented continuously through the Croatian Employment Service, we also have a special Employment Encouragement Act. And I'm going to affirm here once again that two measures are extremely important, and they will certainly get results. It is one seasonal work in agriculture because people who hire seasons on jobs in agriculture actually release them from significant administrative reporting jobs, the check-in of workers not only have to receive in employment must report them in retirement, health and for a few days to log out if they are not able to perform such jobs for physical and other reasons. And the second is that I think it will give more significant results exactly this measure that has been implemented so far but is now expanding to several entities, which is employment without employment to gain experience, work experience. Young colleagues and colleagues here today set many examples of what employers are looking for in employment, so they are all looking for work experience to some of their own experiences. I'll say I hired myself in the mid-'70s, we all went through a traineeship back then. I graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb with a lot of theoretical knowledge, and when I worked as an intern in accounting, I realized only then how much I actually had to learn in practice to do business accounting. You can't just know the economy, you can't just know the finance, you have to know the technology, the organization and a lot of things. And I think this is a valuable experience that young people will have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7840	Thank you. To correct an incorrect allegation. You give up, do you give up or do you answer? Therefore, a colleague named Vuljanic came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. [[/Intruder: No, no.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7841	That the colleague said at one point that the role of the political opposition is not only to criticise the factographic and political laws proposed by the government, that is, the role of the political opposition, of course, and to make its proposals. We tried one and the other. Five of our legal proposals were rejected exactly 5. All the amendments we've given have been rejected as well. but we will not give up the possibility of critical observation and we are talking about the laws proposed by the government. It's our right and not only our right but also our obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7842	Let us now listen to the views of the esteemed representative of the Iron Flag.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7843	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, in this case, Croatia is not an exception to the countries of Europe. In the countries of Europe, professional literature already starts to talk about the generation of limbo because a part of young people do not find their jobs in society and does not actually have the conditions for real existence. Croatia will not say it at the top since limbo falls but close to the bottom of the limbo and this law as well as any measure that can contribute to easier and faster employment is very welcome. This law, in which people are employed partly under the proper conditions in which they gain experience, enables them to work more regularly without any traineeship, is particularly welcome in my court. The more the question of employment and employment is not a question of one political option, the more it is, in fact, a question of all of us and common well-being. In addition to specific legislative incentives for the employment of a colleague and a colleague, it seems to me to be a systemic measure or a structural measure that can contribute to this is a system of education and education. I would be the first to object to education being reduced to profit education, but I also keep warning that education must be the one to take care of the employment and employment of those whom education systems create or educate. So it would seem to me with the profession any opportunised suggestion and the introduction of some other elements, for example. entrepreneurship skills, because very often we have very quality educational experts who do not know exactly how to place their competences on the labour market or simply in economic relations. We're a relatively chatty nation because we don't have communication competences. Communication competences must be integrated into entrepreneurial skills and human skills at all, and among them, I consider business relations to be particularly important to the knowledge of world languages especially English nowadays. It should not be forgotten that at the turn of the century in the world's most developed countries, the share of services was over 50% of GDP, and self-employment played a rather significant role in these services. So the inventive self-employment took a significant role. So in that direction, we should complement the system of our education, so I'm putting it here on the table as a possible part of these changes that we're introducing right now. These elements should be introduced in my court into a system of regular education, such as election cases, but in any case significantly more than this is now the case in different forms of lifelong learning. In order to achieve the results of this most likely and economically and timely and prosperously the most effective segment of education, which are also seeking to increase the employment and employment of the population. In that sense, educational goals should be the intersection of the crowd not to tell the entire population. In this sense, educated policy is so important that it cannot be left to only one ministry, only once and represent only one resolution. In that sense, Mr. Minister, I hope that you and your efforts as a whole and as an entire desire to fix the education system, and today you mentioned this, too, can contribute to a major and perhaps significant acceleration of the change in our education system, which I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7844	Thank you. I now invite the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić to speak to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I am very sorry that today is from individual discussions, which was actually recognized by politicizing on this topic when the proposal is actually trying to increase employability in these times when 250 thousand jobs have disappeared in the last three years, or when young people are waiting for our first experience, or first work experience. Of course, the magic wand doesn't have that we've heard and in a few discussions today, but this law still introduces the structure, introduces order into the chaos of unemployment, that is, hunting in blurry. The goal, one of the primary objectives in fact, is to encourage the economy, to encourage new employment, or to address how gray, or black, zone in the legal zone. On the one hand, we have a fight against unemployment, and on the other hand, as I said against working on a black or gray economy. The Croatian Employment Service implements a series of measures to encourage employment involving various support, support for employment, self-employment, training, adult education, public works, etc. and all in terms of increasing employability. This law proposes, in fact, the release of employers from paying employment contributions, never employed persons, those who have been unemployed for more than two years, and also the introduction of a coaching institute for the employment of seasonal workers. Still, there were actually various misunderstandings in the relationship, volunteering that had already been introduced in the previous law. However, this law extends the number of young people’s occupations without work experience. I can say, from personal experience, that I remember years ago when I was waiting for this internship for half a year, and I also understand all the young people, including my daughter, who has been waiting for the first experience for two years and what her colleague said, just a moment ago, the conditions for employment are clear. Everyone is looking for work experience that unfortunately cannot be obtained, and this way, this proposal gives this possibility. So far, there have been similar measures, but only for the professions they had required a professional examination. I repeat that this law actually encourages, encourages employers for new jobs in such a way as to free the contribution to wages which, of course, can further increase employment. It is proposed to the Institute for the Employment of Seasonal Workers who, of course, would receive contributions on the basis of which they would exercise their right to part of the pension internship. This is important, of course, in agriculture, because there is no continuous work in agriculture, but it has been done for several days, so not for weeks, etc., and as we have heard from previous presentations of my colleagues, it is evident in fact that there have been a lot of administrative obstacles in this regard, so that there has been a great demand and simply people are, they are more worth being at the Employment Office because they were losing all these rights by leaving, so they were working on black. I must stress here that the Croatian economy has been subsidized quite a bit when it comes to the European Union, but we are wondering about exactly where the money went, in fact, it has been fished in a blurry one. Why do I say that? Because I can freely say that it was actually buying votes, that it wasn't the right channel to invest that kind of money. You remember that a lot of money went out for capital investments. These investments were supposed to be a financial injection for competitiveness growth, so we also remember the case where a father sold oracies to a son with whom he had a family economy, and then the son showed it as an investment investment and a foundation that he received from the state a 40 % return on the money invested. Thus, it encouraged agriculture. My colleagues and colleagues, any measure aimed at stimulating employment is welcome and should be supported right now. And why is that? Here are some of the colleagues mentioned, mentioning that we also have the immaterial consequences of unemployment. For example, when we talk about psychological health then we can say that an employee has a material well-being, profit, then it's an activation of social interactions, then it's a fulfilled day, or a time structure of the day, or the realization of personal identity through that work role. Of course, the loss of these benefits, which employment brings to everything, means negative, which is precisely these immaterial aspects, aspects of loss, loss of work, which is anxiety, depression, dissatisfaction, tension, low self-esteem, or hopelessness and other negative emotional conditions. And finally, colleagues and colleagues of this law have the incentive of new employment, as well as the transition of gray calls to the legal zone, the law and structure are being introduced, and what is very important is that the minister also stressed the number of unemployed is not disguised, which shows that this is essentially a law that is real, and the responsible government is actually giving opportunity to both young and all those found in this law. Therefore, I suggest that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7846	Thank you. The word is now being given to the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7847	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Clearly, we Croatian Labourists have a slightly different view of this law, not different views because we would not want young people to be employed, to work, not to be at the employment office than we see certain dangers in this law and clearly we have the right to point out certain problems and clear that as much as anyone liked it in the end, the law itself will show in practice whether it is good or we were right when we pointed to certain problems that might arise from this law. This law also extends to the area of private employers. We know that in this area, newly employed workers are employed somewhere with 80% of work contracts for a certain time. We know that workers with work contracts have less rights for a certain time, but they have to keep quiet in some way, what the employer asks them to do, and not to say that we also have cases to pay minimum wages, and they get some difference to some kind of pay without taxes or contributions paid. This is the problem of a work contract for a certain time, and we are extending this law to the area knowing that certain employers are violating certain workers' rights, knowing that there could be some problems in the application of this law. This law clearly that he has raised significant attention, so in some ways I am asking the minister a question. Is this law fully in line with the social partners, because this is also about trade unions that should have given their own thought regarding the application of this law. We Croatian Labourists, along with this part of what I said, are willing to be as few unemployed workers as possible at the Employment Service as possible, and especially young workers and young people to work and achieve their rights through work, but also through those benefits that are practically theirs, and in this case when it comes to high and higher professional preparation to be adequate and rewarded and paid for. What in this law is in some way illogical and what we have warned about in any case, which is a question of who can make certain reliefs when it comes to employers and facilitates can be achieved by the employer if workers get paid no later than next month's pay. Not for the month's salary, not for the month's pay, but for the next month's salary. It's a formula that confuses us in the law. What about employers who haven't paid all the wages to workers, so there's some kind of debt to some wages to the workers. Under this law, these employers can achieve these benefits. Furthermore, employers are said to be able to reach them during the relief period if none of the workers make a decision to quit for business reasons. That's what you say at a time when you get the right of relief. But what about those employers who had previously fired the workers, fired two three workers, declared them a surplus, paid their severance fees, and in two months they hired these young people to work for free, and on the basis of such free work, they will certainly earn those money, the employers with whom they got rid of the excess of those workers. These are things that are unsaid in the law, these are things that we clearly warn Croatian Labourists about and we have the right to warn about. I have also asked the Minister, and I am not in charge of employers because in the incentives to exercise rights through these measures, I cannot do this to you employers. But then why isn't it written in this law? I think the law is something else that needs to be followed. Clearly, there are also some things in the law that we as Croatian Labourists in some way support, which is a question of seasonal workers in agriculture. That area has been uncovered so far. Clearly, it is a good area to cover, but in that part we have the same right to warn that control of this difficult will be able to current inspections of work that are not sufficiently teamed up, which are not equipped enough to carry out control. In the case of seasonal agricultural works such as apple harvesting, grapes, etc., these are jobs that they do in a shorter period. Part of such employers will hire several workers, but they will still have a part that will be black, and our inspections and our services will not be able to control it very well. But better yet, because we haven't had any solution so far, and I think this is one step that can be better at regulating that area. And clearly, when we say that this way the labour price will collapse, the labour price in that area that is not covered by collective agreements where workers' rights are and are now smaller and clearly going to have reflections on the current rights of workers who are working. And that is what we Croatian Labourists warn and we have the right to warn and for these reasons we have the right to not support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7848	Thank you very much. The view of this legislative proposal will now be presented by a respected representative, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A few days ago, Finance Minister Mr. Linic said that the crises and criminal authorities paid citizens for the past 8 years, which is true, it should not be explained to anyone, least to the citizens. Everyone knows how and how they paid for it and paid for it. One nice part, and this is the sequel to the job. Namely, people who will be employed for teaching, practicalists, I will not call them volunteers because they are not volunteers will be paid a contribution, of course from the state budget and this payment of contributions falls on the back of all of us, to all Croatian citizens. So far, employers have been able to take into that kind of teaching of people, but they have had to pay contributions. Croatian employers are workers according to the directors of the Employers' Association around the neck. And that weight around the neck is, of course, expressed by contributions that are terrible, large, and that would not be paid. Well, the government has come up with another way that employers don't pay their contributions either. It's always a key question when a law like this comes before Parliament. The key question is who will pay for it and that is the question that we should ask each time at least five times in the discussion. Who's gonna end up paying for every move. So what is the fundamental basis of this law? Young people, especially those educated to bring to the labour market so they work for a year. Something will learn in those years. People all came to work like that at one point in some other systems and everything, and we had less pay than our older colleagues, but we had paid. We didn't work without pay, we had a salary like that, 50% of what an older colleague got, but we got paid. These kids, the kids are whether, they won't get paid. If there was work to do then those people who came to work at the expense of the state would learn what to do in that workplace to work where to send them, so whoever paid them must have the right to say yes now you've learned, we paid you to do it, go do it. What else is a practice at the Employment Service? If you go into some kind of education, you sign the obligation to do what the Employment Service is funding you for. There's no such thing as no one's even counting on these people to come work or those employers. The employers heard you here won't fire the workers, they won't and can't. It really says in the law, it's clear, it won't and can't fire workers who are employed indefinitely. And what about the workers who are for a certain time employed by the contract? The contract will be terminated, a young person will be hired for 1600 kunas paid by the state anyway. What about the personally conditioned cancellations? Let's see if the number of personally conditioned cancellations increases? Maybe not, I'd love to. I'd apologize, but I'm sure it will grow in one significant percentage. Work on black is being prevented in part by these moves. Why does working on black even exist? So because contributions are not paid, if contributions are paid there is no work on black. If the state pays contributions to what someone should do in black. It won't even be in the interest of the employer. And another clean on the other side of the road thing. This law says that these rules do not apply, these subsidies do not apply to young people who have already passed state-of-the-art examinations of a type of doctor, lawyer and so forth. It's regulated by other regulations. I've got a doctor's e-mail here who's not a doctor yet because she hasn't passed her internship. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance did not call the tender and the Croatian Health Insurance Office does not know whether the competition will be held this year at all. They're not in this system. Let's not forget them. These are important people who have invested a lot in their education and who will tomorrow be ministers of work and health and so on. Let's not forget them this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7850	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7851	Thanks a lot, buddy. You said in your discussion, a doctor who wasn't a doctor because she didn't perform her internship. She's a doctor as soon as she graduates, she gets her name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7852	Dear Representative Joseph Leco, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I just can't help but see when it comes to the subject of workers. I would be very happy if we didn't need this law, I would be really happy as a man and as a socialist, because that would mean that the labour market meets in some way the needs and employs workers, that the structure of the worker looking for a job is exactly the right thing for our economy. And of course that would be best if it were some kind of ideal market, a market economy. Unfortunately, for three years Croatia has been shaking a strong economic crisis, not only the financial, economic crisis, the structural crisis. What should the government do now rather than what is at its disposal, that some of the designed, of course, in this case even administrative measures try to awaken the labour market. Measures that allow those looking for a job to gain some experience, to gain some hope, and not to be at home. It offers employers to make it easier, the truth now comes to a few problems, making it easier for them to check the market workers. We would all be pleased if today the unemployment rate was halved and we were to be sure that the gross domestic product will grow at a rate that ensures that there will be fewer than 50,000 workers on the labour market next year. But let's face it, and let's not ignore that reality. We need the encouraging measures that the government has manifested here that offer a solution with the hope that the market and the measures it is taking to grow GDP will be this government that is making difficult decisions we together with the Government that will ensure the rapid growth of GDP and the creation of new jobs and investments in new jobs, not just in modernisation. In such circumstances, the proposal of this law should indeed be welcomed. If only part of the workers who went abroad, and we paid for their education, ensure or enable them to acquire some kind of, not some kind of knowledge that could be acquired in a year we did a good job. We did a good job and saved a certain number of so-called. The outflow to the abroad of educated people. So, administrative fire measures until they work out macroeconomic moves that, I hope, are in the right direction. Of course, however, measures would be effective. The government must also have measures to control in the real world as they are implemented. The law envisioned three ministries to oversee law enforcement and provided significant penalties for law enforcement. I must say that it is old, or maximum, that democracy without power is not powerful. It's an old saying by one smart man a long time ago. Therefore, let us call on the power of the state and inspections that have not been shown so far, Minister, we have had in Croatian society a lot of objections to all institutions why they do not, say, protect workers in trade. Such inefficiencies, such inadequacy of the state must not be shown in such a law because not protecting the young worker we have employed in this way means really taking away his hope. If you still have one measure here that is even more drastic for an employer than is provided for by the Labour Act, I think here is Article 4(3) provides for the employer to be sanctioned for a year by something if he violates the provisions of this law relating to the employment of professionals, and the Labour Act provides for 6 months. It's legally possible, this is a lex specialis compared to... It's all possible, but it won't do any good unless it's done by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I won't, and there's no need to say, give any more support to this law, should point out that it will bring with it some perspective to people who are looking for work, some perspective to people who have no experience, whether it's a high professional preparation, highly skilled people or people who have craftsmanship, providing them with some perspective, some hope and some faith in the government that they'll open new jobs and raise GDP growth, so maybe this measure that's temporary, which is firepower can turn into permanent. I wish you success in this, to all of us and to those who work this way. I think it will be important for all of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7854	I thank the vice president of the House. Representative Boris Kovacic also applied for the debate, but since he is not in the hall, he loses the right to discuss this item of the agenda. And now I give my word to the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrell.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm a laborist and I care about hiring young people because first I'm a mother of two intellectuals and I'm going to talk and ask you ministers a few questions that I'd really like you to answer. I'm not going to politicize a lot, and I'm not going to pollomise a lot about this bill, I'm going to do it really concretely. Yesterday, Minister Jovanovic announced a new programme by the Ministry of Education said at one point that the house should be rebuilt because the existing house is bad and based and roof and there is nothing to fix. My suggestion would be that the government should really start building one house again, but the house of symbiosis. And there is definitely a time when all the ministries in the government should be on some path, along the way where they will begin to take measures that will not only be fire-fighting but measures that will in the long run eliminate some results. When something collects in Croatia, we usually like to call on that something much more expensive in Europe. So I will now also appeal to why Germany, for example, has a 10% percentage of youth unemployment and Croatia is 40% and why Croatia is second in Europe at the youth unemployment rate. The answer lies in the dual education system, which as such exists in both Austria and Switzerland. And I assume you know it just as well as Minister Jovanovic does. And we heard here today on several occasions how important it is to bring the needs of the education market into line and how important it is to monitor the number of unemployed at the Employment Service and the number of entry posts in colleges so that we don't get what's happening to us from year to year. We heard today that in this law there is an important man. He's an important man, and he's an important intellectual, as proposed by this law. I believe that the largest capital or the most valuable capital of each particular employer is human potential. And that, as such, it should be an investment in which each employer should invest very well, and that is why the Employers' Association should become involved in the dual system of education. What bothers me in this law is why this law as well as so many others punishes those who are worthy. In fact, if I'm right by reading Article 2 of point 1 I read that those intellectuals who have completed college are under 29 years old and graduated from their 24 or 25 years of age couldn't get a job, they've been hired as waiters, merchants or I don't know what they have in their workbook for a year but not in the profession they finished in college they can't get a job experience from the profession. This is what concerns me because we have a terrible lot of young people especially those young people who come from a family of weaker financial situations that unfortunately have to work to manage to finance their college, and they do it successfully, end up within the deadline, and they are our Croatian heroes and as such we show them in those rare shows in which something about good and quality youth can be seen, and this is the law we punish them for precisely because they are worth it. So I would really ask the Ministers here to take care of this, too, and if it's possible, if we're already talking about getting experience in what we've ended up doing to everyone, then let's let that experience take place on the basis of that college that ended. The next thing I'd ask you, and I'd like you to explain it to me is, this law allows these young people to be employed in private companies as well. And I'm now asking myself a question, say, if one economist is going a year into a small or medium-sized company and he's doing that year's internship with some mentor, have you considered that this mentor is obliged to sign some kind of work diary or something that this young man who spent a year getting that experience by crossing or hiring into some other company might also be able to prove to that other employer who he was actually working for that year and what he was training in those years and what he was actually capable of after that year more than he was able to do after five years of college. As far as the farmers' vouchers are concerned, I'd just like to point out again that kind of symbiosis of the ministries. We have a big problem with the nanny in Croatia right now. The Croatian Employment Service has spent more than 1.5 million kuna on training 60 unemployed persons for babysitters, but unfortunately they cannot work because of legal regulations. We are witnessing a recent unkind event that took place in the Stocks when the inspection services entered the house of the lady who was babysitting. The lady is threatened with a fine of 30 thousand kuna for working on black, and moms are threatened with a fine of 10 thousand kuna for not caring for their own child because they gave it to someone who doesn't have a license to be a nanny. So here you are, given that Minister Opačić has a very big problem, at least according to what we read in the media about how this nanny status is going to be solved, that you may, as a colleague, suggest that she also has the possibility of a voucher and that these nannies are also working on vouchers so that moms don't pay the fine and end up in criminal judges because they give their children to the guards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7856	All these questions will be answered by the minister in his final statement. And now we'll first hear the correction of the incorrect quote of the esteemed colleague Zeljko Saba.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7857	Honorable Vice President, Minister, Madam Parliamentary Representative. I reluctantly wish to correct you in one thing, although I agree with a lot of questions, and I agree with your presentation. In the city of Vukovar, 25 people have used similar measures so far, 5 of them have been constantly employed, and these young people to whom this possibility is granted cannot be punished at all, and I consider that if you think of an age related to the punishment that there is also some way to stimulate those of value who have been worth, diligent, and can use such measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7858	Thank you very much. We remain to hear five minutes of debate on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7859	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here is very short on behalf of the HNS Club on the proposal of this Employment Encouragement Act, above all our young people who believe that in this sense we are sympathetic not only to their problems because they are unemployed but also of course to the problems of their families the meaning of their parents. And I have to say here at first that I am more than surprised by some discussions that have recognized in this law the exploitation of man by man, the malts of not some slave-owned relations, recognized neoliberalism and insulted me because this government too, in the course of four months, actually showed the behaviour of the government quite clearly, made the war clear to all employers who did not comply with the law that had taken measures to make employers pay contributions to employees before paying salaries, not to fill their cash register, but to carry out their obligations to workers. You know that there has been very often in Croatia that certain companies went into bankruptcy that they were liquidated, and that they were years behind the work of these companies and no contributions were paid to workers, because these contributions are part of their salaries, these are their gross salaries. Such a government that wants to put order into the labour market, such a government that checks employers here these days gave legal or illegal property, so today, by proposing one of these very positive measures, is actually declaring itself to be a neoliberal government, which the ministry is offering to exploit man by man, and I think it's totally inappropriate and the HNS Club definitely cannot agree with such findings. These measures proposed by this law for us at the HNS will certainly cheer up all those young people who are eager to prove themselves, who are eager to know, who will see their chance in doing so, not only the chance for future employment that is real when you enter the world of work, but who will see their chance to gain a certain experience, that perhaps from those years or two days that they spend in such a place of work, they become self-reliance entrepreneurs, they move into another way into the labour market, not as a classical labour force on the labour market. Not to mention how much this proposal will cheer up many parents who unfortunately look at their children after college in their living rooms in front of TVs or in front of computers, who have to buy cigarettes and give them coffee. I believe most parents will be happy if their children get a chance and through this law they will get a chance to start working, to gain some experience and to be full, equal citizens of this country tomorrow. And in the end, I think it will cheer up employers, but not in the context of what some colleagues here have commented, in terms of exploiting cheap labour, but in that sense what every responsible employer receives from the job of a new man or a young man without experience, is certainly expected to prove himself. And every honest and responsible employer in most cases will decide to hire a young man who is eager to prove, eager to know who is willing to expose himself and in this way to prove himself. That's why I'm not going to be in the discussion, because we've been talking to our colleagues at the club. The apprenticeship is something that has been known since ancient times, all of us here because some of them were and entrepreneurs know what apprenticeship is and that some apprenticeship must be done before you become a master. This is exactly the chance. That's why the HNS club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7860	Thank you very much. I now call upon the minister, Mr Miranda Mrsic, to give the final word on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So again I express regret, the first thing that is not read laws, the second thing that is passed is lex specialis but is a law that binds to other laws, and one of the fundamental laws is the Law on Intervention in Unemployment, so this is the fundamental law to which this law is bound, and this law is bound by measures to encourage the unemployed. Therefore, it is necessary to view it in this context and to interpret the law in this way. When we talk about trade unions, the impact of unions or our social partners they have been involved since the beginning of writing this law, unfortunately there was one awkwardness by the unions at the beginning and this led to a completely wrong interpretation of the law, however, colleagues from the unions have repeatedly manifested themselves, so here I refer to one of our daily newspapers where the union has shown that this law is the best thing that can be done for unemployed persons at this time in Croatia. Therefore, the social partners were involved. We have achieved a high degree of compliance but you must know that you have another part of the social partner, and these are employers and that in those parts of the law that could not be brought into line in that part of the proposal, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken a certain position and proposed a legal solution. Therefore, social partners have been involved since the start of work on this law. We've had a number of meetings where we've agreed on the views of this law. As far as salary payments are concerned, Croatia is a country that is deeply disorganised and a country in deep chaos. Because if you have 10 billion unpaid contributions and 10 billion unpaid taxes, then you realize that the country in which the order and the Government are to be introduced is to do so with Zoran Milanovic. You've seen the papers lately. So, pay taxes, pay contributions is something that's normal in countries. Obviously, it has not been in Croatia so far, let's wonder why. Pay your salary, pay your salary for what you do, pay your fair work. And part of this bill goes for the part that we know exists, and the minimum wage is paid, and the rest is paid through the daily course or on the hands, under the table maybe at this point for the workers is good because he was paying more than he was declared. However, when you retire then face fate and the problem that unfortunately the salary that has not been paid through, legally, means no paid contributions cause low pensions and I hope that in Croatia very soon and that part will be resolved. Naturally, we don't expect that as far as illegal payments and the black market are concerned, it will be settled in one hundred percent, but it will be less than now. As far as seasonal employment is concerned, if you miss Article 15(7), it says: "If a contract on seasonal work to carry out temporary or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture does not close for each working day before the start of work Article 10(1) will be fined with 50 to 10000 kuna. I think it's a provision that anyone who employs the seasonal workforce will imagine whether it's worth going to the employment of the task force on black or whether it regulates workers working on vineyards, agriculture or elsewhere. There were a lot of questions about the work of minors, so the Act of Work is the work of minors, so people who graduated from school didn't go to high school, so they can work, they're 15 and over, they're limited to 8 hours with all those limitations that are appropriate for that age. With this law and the contract of work that is part of this booklet of the seasonal worker, work shall be allowed up to 12 hours a day. Therefore, automatic minors cannot work in seasonal affairs because, as you know, working hours are longer than eight hours. As far as employer costs are concerned, it's not like employers can't, that it's free and that they don't have expenses. As I have already pointed out to read the law, those employers who employ a person who already has a working experience in some other jobs cannot be freed from contributions to health insurance and for this person the employer must pay contributions. On the other hand, the employer must also pay the mentor, so the person who will worry about it is something that is additional to the jobs he does during working hours. On the other hand, the employer must pay the expert examination if the law provides. When we talk about having interns, having it in the Labour Act, we have and there it says well that we need to make a contract on work, and the pay isn't defined. So a trainee's salary can be a minimum wage, it can be part of the average salary, so that depends on how the trainee deals with the employer. So I'm asking you, someone who wants a job, wants to work, whether he's going to sit down now and condition me and I want a salary to pay me a full salary of five, six, seven thousand kuna, I've just started working, I don't have a day's experience. And there the interns were completely unprotected and there was no control. With this law, all those who enter this measure sign an employment contract where the contract says exactly who is, that is, the answer to the mentoring question, in this contract of work signed by the Employment Service exactly writes the scope of the work that this young man is going to do and exactly the work programme, means where, in which part of the company he will be staying, what jobs he will do. On the other hand, it is protected by the Labour Act, so it has the right to a day's rest, has the right to vacation and, if the employer has the possibility, has the right and to be subject to additional fees for certain additional jobs which are not included in this contract. Employers also do not want what is constantly trying to impute, that this law will allow employers to now fire and call more expensive workers and hire now all these cheaper workers. Well, they won't, because the Employment Service, along with the Pension Insurance Office, will certainly be taking care of which employers will be qualified for this measure. There was an observation that there was no public tender. There is. Every year somewhere in February, a public invitation is being made public to all employers in Croatia to apply for one of these measures because this is not the only measure, you have a job incentive measure, you have a job maintenance measure. Therefore, there is a wide range of measures, supporting employment measures contained in employment criteria. So there is a public tender and on the other hand, the Employment Office is signing with the employer a contract on how many interns we will call them in that company. Let me just point out again that one mentor can be maximum of 3 to 5. If we look at how it was settled in the Labour Act where traineeships are defined, where nothing is defined except that you can get a job as an intern and that you can have a lower salary. Here you define everything so that the issue of making coffee, the stacking of shelves in this case is out of the question. We've introduced another part that's part of the rule that goes with this law. As you can see, at the end of this law, the rules will be passed within eight days of the law being passed. They are already in the works and in these rules there will be an exact way of checking by the Croatian Employment Service whether these young people are satisfied where they work, whether they are doing what they contract or doing something else. And on the other hand will employers,... that young people who are employed in this way will have to fulfil their work obligations. [[You don't understand.]] This means that before paying off these 1600 kunas which, if you haven't noticed 1600 kunas, will be paid off by the employer, paid off by the Employment Office when he gets the employer's records that the hours have been completed. Who chooses young people? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What the employment office chooses is the employer who will provide that year's work experience, and the employer chooses amongst the people who come from the employment office to choose the person he will hire. It is therefore also of interest to the employer to choose a young man who will learn and benefit him. Just to point out that the measure that was, once again, that the measure that was for the public sector has been given to those 1,300 people who have now finished the measure, that they have been employed somewhere 400 and something. So it doesn't say that it can't, it doesn't say that the measure isn't effective and we hope it will be even more effective. As far as doctors, nurses, medical technicians are concerned, I hope that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will quickly discuss the competition because it is defined by the Internship Regulations, the way it is done, that means that a tender is being opened by the Croatian Health Insurance Office. The competition is carried out by the Croatian Employment Service because it is resolved, and the hospitals and health institutions that hire them receive a refund from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and that is why they do not need to be to this extent because the funds are secured on one side. The state inspectorate, even there, is blowing some new winds. So, very soon there will be amendments to the State Inspectorate Act. One very simple change is that the labour inspector and labour protection inspector will be one person. So far, you've had a work protection inspector, so he comes in, and two days behind him comes the labour inspector. No, there will be one person and in this way we will increase the number of labour inspectors who will closely monitor the implementation of this law. I agree that the education market must be very corrective. Co-operation between the ministries, Minister Jovanovic and I held several meetings on the topic and 18.6. goes to a major conference of labour and education in Croatia in 2025, where we will define both labour markets and ministries. What is quite certain is that education policy should be influenced not only by the Ministry of Education but also by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of Small Enterprise and crafts. So, all those who create jobs and this conference will hopefully give us one look at what awaits us in Croatia in 2025 that what we have been doing for years is to educate these young people for the Employment Service. An internship in the profession is not a problem. So, all those who don't have an internship in the profession, and have an internship somewhere else, means that they've been waitering, doing something else, will be different from the practice so far and the solution so far will be candidates for this measure. All that matters is whether you have an internship in the profession and nothing else. If you don't have it, then you'll be a candidate in a year to implement this measure. And it's also in our documents in the rulebook. So all that goes with this law we've already announced and that's how it's going to be. So the only problem can be those who have months of training in the profession, but if you don't have an internship in the profession, and you have some other internship there's no problem. You are a candidate or candidate for this measure. And to the end of the nanny. There was a problem with the classification. Nannys are classified as an occupation, although in an old law from the former Yugoslavia. So it's time to classify them in this profession classification. As for the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, we see three possibilities for nanny work. One option is that the nannies are working on a contract of action, the other is to open the crafts, and here I hope that both the Ministry of crafts and small entrepreneurship will make a certain step, not what is happening now that you can open the company d.d. With 20,000 kunas take it in your pocket and load millions of kuna commitments, and that craftsman must guarantee the grandfatherland and with everything for his part. So also with these reliefs of opening the nanny's crafts will be able to open the crafts and will also be able to open agencies that will sort it out in a certain way. I don't think it's appropriate, because when I talk about vouchers, it's part-time jobs, changing jobs, employers change, and yet the job of a nanny is a job that's eight hours of working hours. And for the end. I'm glad this law caused such media, although we didn't think it would be so media-exposed. He has raised one topic that needs to be discussed in Croatia and needs to be very much discussed, which is a culture of work. Is there a culture of work in Croatia? Whether we are the country where the culture of work is something on which the foundations of the state rest and I hope that this is the beginning of new winds in Croatia where work, education, ability to appreciate and be honored. I hope this law will live in the House of Support. Some for their political reasons will be restrained, some because they may have been a little hasty will be against it. But ultimately, the only benefit of this law is the benefit of young people who will be hired and all those 100,000 people who will be working on very difficult jobs from now on in a few weeks. Ask those who have been picking strawberries how they feel after 5 days of picking strawberries. And that's something we owe them, something we need to ensure that they are properly paid and that they have pension and health insurance for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7862	I thank Minister Mrsic. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It'll probably be tomorrow. This now seems like a good time to break off today's work. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways, it is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 84. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7863	Final proposal of the Employment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 82. The debate on the text of the law is over. The bench is divided into a review of the amendments. Do you all have a review of the amendment? Thank you. I'd like a statement from the motionary, so please, dr. As Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic, he declares the amendments. So we've got a checkup, so we're on our way. Article 2 is replaced by the following: Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7864	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7865	Thank you. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7866	It's not accepted even though it's about... The amendment proposes only one body of the article of this proposal to amend the word sub-paragraph in point, which would lead to the inconsistencies of the nomotechnical approach in the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, Article 2 of this proposal also contains items and sub-items and points.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7867	I would ask the representative of the legislator's proposal to declare the position of the applicant. Are you staying with the amendment or are you pulling out? You're pulling back? You're pulling, we can move on. The Third Amendment Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7868	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7869	Thank you. The Club of Representatives of the HSU Amendment to Article 5, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7870	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7871	Under regular number five. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7872	It's unacceptable. Acceleration of the conditions for the use of reliefs in the form of payment of contributions is not acceptable because the use of these exemptions is not subject to any prior authorisation or request in which some previously relevant facts should be documented. Since reliefs are used under the law itself, we are only correct to monitor the conditions for its use during its use.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7873	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7874	Mr. Tušak, the representative will declare himself on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7875	Our amendment regulated that employers must regularly pay for all salaries and contributions for workers and protect all workers who have contracts for work for a certain period of time. You don't accept it, so please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7876	Thank you very much. Who is for this amendment to raise your hand? The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. 6th MP Mr Dražan Djurovic tabled an amendment to Article 9. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7877	... The proposed extension of the simplified way of employment for vaguely defined temporary support and other household jobs is totally unacceptable both because of the wide scope of abuse and because of the almost complete inability to monitor these tasks and these can be dealt with by other legal solutions such as those. a contract of action. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7878	Thank you. Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic can be declared. No, but to vote. You can't talk. I'm sorry that he's the applicant for the amendment. It's not a club. Who's for the amendment to raise your hand please? He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. Representative also Mr Drazen Djurović on Article 10. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7879	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7880	Thank you. The vote. Who's for the amendment please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. We move to point 8 of the amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSU. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7881	It's unacceptable. The proposed work of minors on seasonal jobs in agriculture would be completely contrary to the Labour and Labour Protection Act for reasons that underage workers should never work for more than 8 hours during 24 hours, and seasonal work in agriculture is allowed by this bill up to 12 hours a day. In addition, most agricultural jobs are in terms of the rules on protection of work with special working conditions on which under the Labour Act and under the Labour Protection Act, minor workers are allowed to work. All these rules came from Directive 94/33 of the European Community on the protection of young people at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7882	Here you go, Mr. HSU Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7883	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry we parted here in our thinking, but Article 45. The labour law was explicitly prohibited from the work of minors and there was no need for norms in this special law. And the law that regulates all working relationships is a fundamental law on labour. Everything you said about this matter being regulated and the rules on businesses with special working conditions and the Labour Protection Act stand, therefore it was not necessary to reject this amendment for the reason that we are now limiting the ability of some of our citizens from 15 to 18 years of age who could be very skillful to read potatoes, pears, apples, and that would leave no consequences for their psychophysical development. However, if you discreetly have the right of the Minister to appoint and propose to the Croatian Assembly and more stringent measures than is provided for by the Labour Act, I will not make this a problem, so I will withdraw the amendment but I have said what I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7884	Thank you very much. We move to Amendment 9 by MP Drazen Djurovic. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7885	It's not accepted for the reason we've already listed it. Therefore, the proposed extension of the simplified way of employment to vaguely defined temporary support and other household jobs is totally unacceptable both because of the wide scope of abuse and because of the almost complete inability to control these jobs and these can be dealt with by other regulations, such as those. and a contract of action.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7886	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to raise your hand? The amendment did not receive the required majority not accepted. The amendment under regular number 10 also Mr Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7887	It is not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7888	Thank you. Who for this amendment is under regular number 10 to raise your hand? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority not accepted. The amendment under regular number 11 also Mr Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7889	It is not accepted for the reasons set out in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7890	Thank you. Who's gonna raise a hand for this amendment on a regular basis? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority not accepted. And finally, the Club of Representatives of the HSU Amendment to Article 13?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7891	We don't break up in everything. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-10-0.u7892	Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the Proposal for a Employment Encouragement Act, with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 82. Who would please raise your hand? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? I find that most of the votes of 85 votes in favour, 4 against and 24 abstentions have been passed by the Employment Encouragement Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
