ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15784	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. We will discuss: - Final proposal of the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement, second reading, PZE No.138; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the 2nd reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15785	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the final proposal of the Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement Act. So let us return to the assessment of the current situation and the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Croatia estimates that such a law may make it possible for us to be more effective in solving a problem called liquidity and insolvency. And let's also try to emphasize what's most important changed between the two readings, and to try to let you know what was done in the organisational preparations for the implementation of this law. Because such a tough law, a whole new law is always successful if we have a quality implementation. Well, let's get back to the state of the art assessment, which was the reason for this billing. According to the latest data from the financial agency somewhere at the end of August this year, the blockade is at an amount of 44 billion kuna, or better said blocked accounts and unfulfilled payment obligations are somewhere 90% of the monetary mass. This situation in Croatia is recorded in the period 1998-2000. Therefore, we estimate that this is also the biggest problem of the Croatian economy, which is why it is unable to assume any credit obligations so that it can maintain production, and at least that it could start to implement any new investment or investment operations. At the same time, this 90 per cent cash indifference means that the healthy part of the Croatian economy is being significantly threatened. Maybe it's best to say that somewhere around 73,000 blocked business entities, out of waiting for 52% of the legal person, and they kill out of this total amount 82% of the mass of the blocked funds. What is also difficult is that up to 360 days we have 16 thousand legal entities with 22% of the total amount or only 7 billion, and that 56 thousand legal days is over 360 days and that makes 36 billion blocked funds. Therefore, it is evident that the causes are not short-term but are simply and multi-yearly causes recorded with blocked legal accounts. And then we conclude what is fundamental, all the other laws in the Republic of Croatia that regulated that matter, where legislation is an unknown term, that someone can be blocked for 360 days. It is evident that the good part and the existing laws are not working and are not being implemented. What was also very important for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this is the number of employees in these legal entities, and then we can conclude that about 38,676 legal persons employed 41,000 workers. And that there are 25,000 workers employed by a craftsman that we're recording. So it's obvious that most of the vulnerable jobs in companies or legal persons of individuals who have societies and to kill the backbone of our work will also be how to save these legal persons, how to kill to solve the problem of liquidity in those, because at that point we're fighting for about 41 thousand jobs. Because when we talk about craftsmen, then it's obvious, when you compare the number of craftsmen to employees, that they are mostly the owner and employee, and that there are very few employees. Or maybe we should try to be clear, because the figure that tells us that we have 73 thousand legal entities in the blockade may scare us, and especially when we get back to the deadlines that we have predicted that it will only be 120 days before we try to make a pre-trial settlement. We would also like to point out, however, what will be the backbone of our work, which will be the real procedures, and not the shortened procedures, but that we should say that between 6 and 10 workers in legal persons is 526 employees, 3 thousand 797 employees, and 526 entities to record between 11 and 50 workers in 450 entities, that from 51 to 100 we register only 48 persons, from 101 to 500 38 and more than 2 thousand legal persons, which means when we look at this total part of somewhere, a thousand legal entities are the ones that record more than 6 employees, and that will be the most serious part of the job. When we look at craftsmen over 4 she is employed somewhere by a thousand craftsmen, which means it is possible, however, with such a proposal to find a solution for meaning somewhere around a thousand and 100 legal entities and a thousand craftsmen, all in order to make a priority attempt to find a solution for employees in these legal entities. The government was facing a dilemma as to how to solve a situation like this, a crisis like this, so we were in doubt whether to tighten the laws on bankruptcy, whether simply to different models of the Bank's law, or still, as you can see, we opted for administrative procedures because we estimated that the speed of solving such accumulated difficulties in the economy is still a priority. Why did we still opt for administrative proceedings? According to current data when we talk about serious bankruptcy, we said it was somewhere around a thousand companies, 90 bankruptcys last longer than 10 years. Somewhere around 166 bankruptcys for more than 5 years, about 300 more than three years. According to the most efficient procedure, which is three years of these thousands of cases, there would be a question of how much the economy where the money mass is blocked 90% can survive over the next three years. The World Bank's evaluations of the bankruptcy proceedings itself show that in bankruptcy, creditors do not provide 30% of their claims, or 30%, and on the other hand that we are in a position of efficiency of around 94th place and only in our environment the worst and compared to Albania, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, we are, therefore, the worst. These were all reasons that we estimated that any revision of the Bank Law would not be of great benefit, so this was the reason why the Government was defined for administrative proceedings. It may be mentioned enough that leaving that part and allowing the economy not to comply with the laws we have a situation where businessmen do not apply it to documents related to business results or documents related to final accounts. Therefore, even basic obligations are not carried out by employers. Which just shows that the will of employers to respect and uphold the law was not at all present in the good part of the economy, in the good part. This was the reason that somewhere in April, the IRS submitted more than 17,000 requests to delete legal persons under Article 70. The Court Register Act, which means that all companies that do not comply with legal obligations are to submit reports which are still relevant so that other creditors can assess who they are working with to try to delete them. The data show that in the last three months, the judiciary has been able to wipe out around 9,000 legal entities, which means that erasure itself is a slow process, which means that also a great help to the government is that every depravation process costs about 20 thousand kunas, and this is all done free of charge, just to slowly clean up the data, to make it very clear to the creditors who are the bad debtors and that together with the judiciary and with the banking system that still has open gyro accounts, we slowly bring the end of all those who cannot survive on the economic market. Therefore, these were about the reasons why we assessed that the administrative procedure that you can nevertheless define very clearly with the deadlines, raised levels and efficiency in solving the individence problem may be the best solution, and all for the reason that this evil called indifference is eliminated if it is possible to start or in the first half of next year. When we speak of what these are now the objectives of the Financial Business Act, we first and foremost allow the debtors to restructure their obligations financially. So first of all, we gave the debtors the opportunity to bring their obligations to the banks, to the state, to the workers, to other economic operators, to try to bring real levels towards their capital and their economic activity. And that's basically the biggest help to the debtors. When we talk about creditors, we estimate that we will speed up their procedures, that it will bring its claim into the real framework, that the assumption that we will still have a higher charge than 30% of how much the practice has shown that our claims have been achieved in bankruptcy proceedings and on the other hand that the creditors will be able to have more influence on the conduct of the process in the debtors. This is possible for us to convert loans into equity shares, to convert loans into the takeover of unnecessary immobilised assets, to resell the claim essentially on payment or payment deadlines in that part of the entity's ability. Thus, we again help the believer in the capital strengthening of his company, and as soon as we capitalise on it, we train him to talk again about new relations with his creditors, if they need funds for the trade sphere or for new investments. We also ensure the rapid payment of workers' claims, and so far we avoid the high cost of bankruptcy proceedings if the settlement succeeds and we estimate by assessing such a process that the costs will be far less. The biggest problem of why bankruptcys were not opened was a one-time payment at the beginning of the period, which is the initial amount for the opening of the bankruptcy. As you can see, this law has not defined those costs so far. All of these were the government's objectives why it proposed a bill like this. And, of course, the most important thing, is that if we can conclude in 120 days, and if we don't just approach bankruptcy as a process in which the debtor or the believer will be charged by his debtor. I have to say that the period between the two readings of this law was full of me would say quality meetings, discussions, so we had in that period until we determined the second reading really successful public debate. Most of the help in forming positions in the second reading we had from the working bodies of the Government and the Parliament, not to list the Committee on Legislatives, Finance and the debate itself at the plenary session, that we received suggestions from the HUP who gave their consent, or I would say a positive opinion on the bill's proposal in the second reading, that we also had very positive echoes from the banks' associations, but also from individual banks who also suggested certain solutions concerning the protection of certain creditors from possible agreements by other creditors, that the trade unions contributed to this debate, but that we also had a number of suggestions from the European Commission. So maybe if I didn't go into this first part more detail into all the changes we've had, I'd point out the most important ones. This is that in the plenary session of the HUP we received suggestions to replace the 30-day period that was scheduled for the opening of the procedure before the bankruptcy of the settlement after blocked accounts, so we realized that this would be a 60-day period, which means that we are giving more opportunity to the employers themselves, the debtors themselves, to find a solution on their own. If they don't make it in 60 days, then we'll proceed with the pre-war settlement procedure. Also, given that a lot of questionable relationships between the creditors have always been accepted, we have also suggested that we form groups of creditors according to this: the state, financial institutions, businessmen, workers, and in certain cases we have allowed the owners within them to also have groups of creditors who we have given the right to support with 50% of the statements the pre-departmental settlement programme and that without half the majority of each group, it is not possible to make a decision unless we have 2/3 of all the creditors for the settlement, that we still approach the pre-departure settlement. Thus, we tried really to meet all these requirements that went to the point that one of the believers would not be played in a predicate settlement. We therefore improved the conditions for the debtors themselves, but also for the believers themselves. It was also not sufficiently elaborated multifaceted breakthrough as a possibility to avoid and the pre-flight procedure etc. We used that time and tried to edit it in more detail, and I believe that we are, perhaps even with some of your amendments it will be possible to put an end to that part. Therefore, we were still able to make enough changes to make it acceptable for the judiciary, as the judiciary also suggested that we were not sufficiently clear in this important law in part of a multiple breakthrough. These are about the most important changes. We have increased the amount to me from 5 million to 10 million when it comes to a shortened or accelerated procedure so that, not getting into all the details, I believe that we have achieved significant agreement with many who are very interested in this legislative proposal and that in some ways we can say that we now have a good share of those who are interested in this kind of solution to the problem of indifference. What is evident, a huge resistance in first reading, which was hard to understand for some of us because it is not, independently of political life or economic life, which did not put indifference first, the first problem and which did not want to stress that the government expected to solve the problem. But the resistance was incredible after the first reading. For the government, it is positive that the proposal was accepted, in a good way already from the banking system at first, a surprise that employers were giving some resistance. Then it was interesting to us what caused such resistance in the first reading. And then it is evident that this resistance in the first reading was mostly due to the fact that all provisions of this administrative procedure are linked to payment deadlines. Therefore, this law also defines payment deadlines in its first part. True, these payment deadlines are also in line with the European Union directives. However, these deadlines are very, very difficult for the state. Because no Croatian state institution can pay more than 30 days apart from health care, which means it is a guarantee to all the shareholders that the state will pay, that this payment is also binding on companies where the Croatian state is owner. And it is evident that the Government will take great steps to pay each company its liabilities regularly in the part where we are the majority owners. And on the other hand, the surprise was that in October 2011, this Parliament passed the Law on the deadlines for meeting the monetary obligations. This Parliament has brought it. Thus, payment deadlines were regulated for the Croatian state, Croatian businessmen last year. But of course Croatian specificity is the laws we pass but do not implement them. Therefore, this is not the new payment deadlines, this is not the new payment obligation system. No, we just repeated what this Parliament concluded last year and what the European directive is. We differ only in the fact that last year's solution had the sanction of a criminal provision for legal persons and their members of the board or directors. Therefore, our so far solution to this law is still valid today. The deadlines are defined for 30, 60 days and sanctions are defined. The government of the Republic has estimated that the payment crisis is so much that it implements sanctions, it means only to accumulate unpaid liabilities. Just pile up unpaid liabilities. And that's why the government gave up those solutions to have sanctions and we went to offer how we're going to fight indifference. Government along with the believers, along with the debtors. Therefore, very clear payment deadlines have been established in Croatia, they have not been respected and this government has only said the payment deadlines set in Croatia but previously recommended by the European Union directive will now only raise them to the common struggle between the government, debtors and creditors. Therefore, let us make it very clear that these are not new payment deadlines. And of course now we are coming to this second question whether we are able as the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement this law. A few words about what the government has done in this period between two readings that we can essentially say that since 1.10, since 1 October we are ready to implement this legal solution. We formed 60 settlement councils. We're in the field of education of all members of the settlement council. We secured the premises, we secured administrative support, we secured IT support. Also, regionally divided settlement councils Zagreb 25, Osijek 8, Rijeka 13, Split 14, all according to the items we have recorded how many blocked legal persons and how many of those with a large number of employees and large debts, and how many with smaller ones. Evaluating that after six months of trying to solve the existing state that we will have enough 12 settlement councils for regular work. At this point in time, 400 employees were employed at the Ministry of Finance, in particular the Tax Administration, the FINA, customs and some others from the judiciary. I have to say that the procedure itself is not something that's a newspaper. At this point together with the banks, we're making a lot of effort to consolidate Dalekvod, the Designer, the Spachva. Thus, the creditors responsible began these settlement procedures even before this law. In the last four months, it's a principle that works between banks, states. The biggest problem is that individuals start with blockades, which we will not allow and is not enabled by this law, so make arrangements, get everything ready, and then prepare the deblocks, and then pay the subcontractors to get the construction sites started, and then the individual blocks your account and everything stops. Yes, much will for the implementation of this law has already been shown in the present period. And that's why I'm saying that 400 insured employees, educated employees who know what's waiting for them, complete IT support that will allow not only quality work and proper burden on every bargaining council, but a report that will be available to every believer, every debtor. Transparently, everything will be published daily as the procedures move, how they are essentially led and how the proceedings end. So here's to starting with so much on the side of the promoter. We expect indeed your support, we expect if you have and any amendments to further supplement this law. But as you can see, first of all, the Government has decided to actively take part in solving the problem of indifference and very clear messages are also Governments in part of the claim. We place all our claims in the function of maintaining economic activity, legal entity, saving jobs, and changing every owner who was irresponsible in his business.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15786	Thank you, Minister. My colleagues and colleagues would now have to reach an agreement, if possible. Namely, when I had already given my word to the Minister and when he started talking to me, there was an initiative by the clubs to join this Final Proposal of the Financial Business Act and the pre-fashion settlement together to discuss the next two points of the agenda. These are - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Act to take over stock companies, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 163 and - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 164. I personally think the initiative is welcome because it will help us make more rational use of our time. I have to ask, is there anyone who would object to the unification of the debate? If we do not have a Rules of Procedure allow us to unite the debate because we have not yet opened the debate on this bill. But that means the other side of the deal, to extend the time for clubs to 20 minutes and to allow the finance minister if he wants to explain these next two intro. ... There's no need, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then we move on to three replicas to the first opening presentation of the Minister of Finance. The first replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Minister, this is not in a certain way a replica, more suggestions, on the Finance Committee yesterday, so I raised the question of the tax status of these settlements. Because if you say someone owes someone 100, you make a deal for 40 what is the tax status of that settlement? Because when you look at a large number of those who are blocked now that they owe the state in the country, they're just because they didn't charge for something in the period. And he will normally have to correct his business books at the moment of the settlement, so in claims from customers he will have to correct the amount so that he no longer asks for 100 but 40, and in some previous periods in the value added tax application he has shown the amount of 100. And now, what tax treatment is, I think it's very important, because tomorrow it can create a series of court disputes because if you've made a deal with someone to pay something, then the logical thing is that it's also the basis for tax. Or if that's not the case then it needs to be treated in a certain way. Because at this point in the Value Added Tax Act, you don't have any provision that would define it. So if we're going this way, then we have to define the thing to the end. Because you can be sure that many who are on the list of those debts to the state have gone into debt precisely because someone has not paid them something and could not carry out their obligation. So, it goes as an amendment to the Finance Committee, and I don't know if you're going to be in the afternoon when I come up for a single debate, and I think this is one of the crucial issues about functioning within the Ministry of Finance because all you've been saying is not a problem for the Ministry of Finance but for some other ministry. Because some other ministries have enforced existing laws probably situations with inequity, etc. You'd be a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15788	Thank you very much. Minister Linic will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15789	Maybe very briefly. We don't think that we're going to change something important in a part of the taxpayer's tax liability given the reduction in the claim because it's the same status as the bankruptcy. In bankruptcy, as you can see, the credentials did not charge even 30%, but their tax debt did not decrease. And in that part, they're the same regulations as they are for bankruptcy. That's number one. Under number two, many creditors who have had trouble collecting unfortunately believe that they will also be in the pre-fashion settlement process. And when we see in that part how we resolve and solve their debtors, we will also solve them. And this means that we will also find ways to try to reduce our claims in pre-fashion proceedings and allow them to continue their business, especially since they are well-deserved by their debtors. Therefore, they will be covered by the same procedure. Unfortunately, those who are not in the process will have to pay their dues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15790	The Republic was also reported by a respected representative of Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15791	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, in your opening statement, you've actually said just a few words about Chapter 3 which, at least to me, seems to be the biggest change compared to the first reading, and it's a mandatory multilateral compensation. Of course, in the light of my question, you can say that we differ in concept, but mandatory multilateral compensation goes into the payment system and it suspends the currency as a means of payment. The law says a multi-party breakthrough is a financial process that enables the entrepreneur to achieve the end of money obligations. There are no fences, there are no restrictions it becomes a way of fulfilling obligations. To participate in a multilateral compensation, you must have what to do, you must create a commitment, so you do not have to pay someone. The point of my intervention, Mr. Minister, is to at first draw your attention that there is a high probability that these provisions actually planted the seeds of future indifference. That's why I wanted to ask you right away, and I'd like you to answer that. And since we don't have the correct quote, I'd still fix something you said. You said the IRS filed 17,000 requests in April. At the end of August, the Ministry of Finance submitted a list to the Ministry of Justice in all courts and the Ministry of Justice sent it to the courts last September. The erasure process as you can see on the websites of our courts began at the end of the 10th month last year. In fact, maybe you haven't met us here in the Parliament we have a debate that stands for order, and who sort of makes up some divisions. I think we're all behind the line, and that's what I said, among other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15792	And this replica corresponds to Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15793	Well, it's very short. Multi-party, multi-party breakthrough systems are still trying to define and we may succeed in removing fear, fear, which may be justified. Is he somehow a problem of further indifference? But it is always a question of whether the economy will leave the possibility of trying to solve its problems of indifference in this way. Let's be honest, in our proposals that were 4.5 before the first reading, at one point they were inside, and they weren't. This request by the economics to return them, so the judiciary had a lot of objections to the unscheduled. Therefore, it is a certain risk. Our proposal is, let's trust, let's try to work it out. We now have many, many new solutions to a thorough previous debate. Now thinking that it might be a quarterly best solution, and if we see that that's the cause of running away from obligations again, we're going to have to end it. So this is just one trust for entrepreneurs that they may be responsible and try to solve their own problems. I don't want to generally challenge your thinking that it's one of the risks, is. But here we have much stronger definitions. If you have any further suggestions to try through this law to limit the possibility of abuse, thank you for, I would say your contribution, but we have decided to give yet another trust to the believers by agreeing with you that it is a risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15794	And the third replica, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd ask the minister, and it's based on the knowledge, so in my county, and the question is whether or not, and we've already talked about it, was it really necessary in this kind of a quick way to implement one of these repressive policies? Of course, when I use the word repressive, it may seem a little rough, but what I know and what I saw, and especially what bothers me is that in these moments, which I have spoken to many entrepreneurs, every entrepreneur is viewed through these laws and through this repression as thieves. They are, of course, all injured and no one escapes their duties and no one escapes these new laws, but based, as I said, knowledge. In my Požega-Slavon County, which is also known by Mrs. Director, great damage has been done to the tax administration, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. Where certain things were offered to be resolved before the bankruptcy procedure which was not understood by the tax administration and our host, just because they wanted to exercise force. The following happened: certain things are offered to be closed as you are now proposing here in the new law, and this has not been implemented. Meanwhile, a bankruptcy has been launched and the IRS will not be charged, we can say almost nothing. I ask why and how such a repressive policy is implemented, and at the same time there is no understanding of the employer who, due to various problems, came into some difficulties and of course could not be solved. But I'm saying it's offered to get rid of it, but with such a repressive policy, it's just done damage that's unrepeated, which can no longer be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15796	Minister Slavko Linic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15797	I don't understand what a repressive measure is. Because as you can see, this law defines how joint debtors, along with other creditors, are going to try to find a way to solve their problem of indifference, not to collect claims, not to their own. I said, the government's message, which doesn't have to be that the believers will think that way, saving every job and maintaining every production that has an economic justification. That's the government's goal through this law. I don't see any repression here. When we look at the past period I can accept that it took a long time to pass the law, here's nine months. But let's be honest, there were so many attacks on the government that someone didn't participate in the first reading, and the first reading was the preparation of the proposal so that they could discuss the second reading for three months. 3 months of public controversy, public debates how to improve such a bill. And I guess we are aware that this difficult law, the newspaper in Croatia, cannot be brought to a shortcut. It's been nine months. So the first measure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the first measure, was the reprogramme. So we gave everyone the opportunity to reprogram all debts, all taxes by February 1st, for 36 months. It was the first measure, anyone could have done it. So when we estimated that not enough people understood, we repeated that same law, if you remember, so we renewed the deadline so we could start reprogrammes. Even the reprogrammes were, if he pays the principal, we forgive the interest. If it's repression, then I don't understand. But what we didn't allow to move on is a delay in the payoffs, we didn't. Is it simply the cause of all problems, was. So at 3 months and 10 months he can't pay for 5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15798	Minister's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15799	Therefore, there is no repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15800	I'm asking now if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Yeah. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget and Honored Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15801	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, Deputy, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 19th session, May 26th on the proposed laws in question. The opening part, of course, you've heard from Mr. Minister, I can only say that in the debate on the board, there are several different views that I will now give you. So any attempt to solve the problem of indifference should be supported, that is a unique conclusion. It's extremely good that the deadlines on the pre-fashion settlement are shortened. However, he has reason to believe that the provisions of the proposed law also address the consequences, not the causes of which are insufficiently protected believers in their claims. It has been warned that the problem of a hospital that will not be able to meet its obligations to large-scale drugs supplied under the deadlines laid down by law. It is doubtful whether, in practice, there will be a sufficient number of Commissioners of Pre-Agreement that will carry out the pre-Agreement procedure on behalf of the Contracting Council. It should not be allowed for a Member of the pre-demand settlement to lead by a dozen proceedings, as has been the case with bankruptcy managers, since the procedure and quality of pre-demand settlement is then significantly extended. In addition, a question has been raised regarding the calculation of VAT on the amount of debt in the pre-determined procedure whether it will be accounted for in the total amount or on the agreed amount in the pre-debt settlement procedure, which is generally always lower than the real debt. It was also warned that the provisions of Article 14(4) which regulates the deadline for the fulfilment of the monetary obligation should be more precise in order to ensure that the goods are delivered and that the debtor is available to him, and only when the deadline for the implementation of the monetary obligation is due after receipt of the invoice for that goods point 1. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he decided to vote 6 votes in favour and 3 votes abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement. In the discussion of the draft amending and supplementing law on the takeover of stock companies following a brief discussion of the Committee on Budget and Finance, it adopted with a majority of votes a proposal for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies together with the next amendment, in Article 1 of the final proposal of the law supplementing Article 14(1) of the relevant law at the end of the new point 7 and the wording is that the value of the shares must not be above the average value achieved in the stock trade in the last three months. So the board also supported the law and amendment, noting that the Ministry of Finance, along with HANFA, would see the possibility to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15802	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke of Work, the distinguished representative Zlatko Tušak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15803	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a final proposal for the Financial Business Act and foregone settlement. First of all, I would like to say that the Croatian Labour Labour Labers sent another March 1st to the parliamentary procedure of the bankruptcy conclusion but the ruling did not find it appropriate in these 7 months to open a debate about which I do not think there were any obstacles. In conclusion, we wanted to encourage legal changes related to the area of bankruptcy. Bad regulations, intransparency of bankruptcy implementation were the cause of having a destroyed economy, inequitableness, unemployment of over 300 thousand workers and the most significant large number of socially endangered families. On the other hand, we have extra rich individuals, successful banks that, even in the biggest crisis, make enviable profits. Although bankruptcy shouldn't mean the end of a company, our practice was devastating because almost most companies went into bankruptcy and ended up liquidating. The most common reasons why companies have no salvation were the late opening of bankruptcy and, most importantly, I have to point out that the heavy over-indebted property was the most lost workers and their existence was compromised. I have to point out that there have been several positive examples of bankruptcy exits. I'll only list some, Chazmatrans, Tisak and Pevec who continued to work and save jobs. But they are very rare examples and exceptions to what was actually happening. I am expressing hope that Jadrankamen and Dalmatia wine will also survive and join these few positive examples. The conclusions proposed by the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party were to draw attention to the illegality, theft and crime before and during bankruptcy but to change the practice that threw the economy on its knees because of some other interests, and we know what interests, interests of individuals and banks were at the expense of all others, and especially of workers. Our goal was also to introduce responsibilities in the conduct of bankruptcy but to commit the institutions of the state to effective action in certain criminal activities that were all around us. Our goal was to save as many jobs as possible and preserve the value of the company's assets. I'll only list two cases that were a classic example of ineffectiveness of institutions. One such example is To Us where bankruptcy lasts for 12 years and there are a number of indications and evidence of illegal actions. The documentation of the Association of Small Shareholders was submitted to the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice this year, but nothing is done, although the documentation shows that the bank's recovery was the first write-off of the Bank's debt to Nami, but the bank re-emphasised its claims in the bankruptcy process as they were granted. Another example is the PAN-Papier Industry Office of Cardboards and Cardboards, over which the unworthy documentation has opened bankruptcy, although after a long trial some 5 years, the final decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 15 March of this year has put off all legal effects based on the decision of the High Court of Commerce and the Commercial Court in Zagreb which led to the opening of bankruptcy. To date, these courts have not acted on the ruling of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, a clear example of the poor functioning of the judiciary. Such examples could be cited in countless cases. We have both the Kamensko and the Elves, but I hope it doesn't happen again and this practice has come to an end. According to the data collected from all bankruptcy, workers managed to charge themselves with only 32% of their claims, and the Republic of Croatia with only 15% is also the reason that it was necessary to pass new laws or to change the existing to change the situation and to stop these harmful consequences of bankruptcy affecting the economy. This law introduces order and rules and I am convinced that in its implementation it will be effective and in bankruptcy only those companies that really do not have any prospects for further business. The situation in the economy is not good at all because 16580 companies have a blocked account due to a 7.7 billion kuna debt, and with over a year's blocked account is 56778 companies with 36 billion kuna. These companies will have a chance to implement a pre-fashion deal or they will have to definitely end up in liquidation, but there will be a final order and a settlement of commitments. It is evident that the proponent sought to respect most of the proposals and remarks in the first reading, but also to achieve a high degree of compliance with the social partners, which is a good example of the adoption of this law that the minister had previously talked about. The Croatian Labour Labour Party will support this law, along with a certain amendment that I will submit because I believe its acceptance will remove possible doubts over the pay of workers. The pre-fashion settlement procedure may take 120 days. Therefore, we believe that the effort to avoid misunderstandings and consistent protection of workers' claims would be useful to make it clear that the salaries of workers from the employment relationship resulting from the opening of a bankruptcy procedure fall within the necessary payment for regular business within the meaning of Article 17 of this Act. In Article 3(3) of the proposal of this Act, priority demand, given the time of their creation, is defined as the claims of workers and former workers made until the date of the opening of the pre-profit settlement procedure, and Article 17 is prescribed to prohibit entrepreneurs from carrying out any payments other than those necessary for business, which are included in the priority claims. This provision protects workers' rights to pay off labour claims, however, the definition of priority claims referred to in point 15 of Article 3 does not cover the claims of workers arising from the opening of a pre-demand settlement procedure, as the definition of the priority claims referred to in point 15 of Article 3 does not cover only salaries until the opening of a pre-demand settlement. We believe that in order to avoid misunderstandings and consistent protection of workers' claims, it would be useful to make it clear that workers' labour claims resulting from the opening of a pre-profit settlement procedure are also considered necessary payments for regular business within the meaning of Article 17 of this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15804	Thank you. And one notice. The chairman of the Committee on Legislatives shall inform the members of the Committee that the 25th session of the Legislatives Committee will be held today in the Chamber of John Mažuranić, which is Hall 84, with agendas as the members have received it in writing. Thank you very much. The time foreseen for discussion and the name of the SDP club will be shared by distinguished representatives Draženko Pandek and Pedja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15805	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with associates and associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. As it has already been pointed out in the debate on the law in the first reading, the need to pass this law is clear and unequivocal, so it is likely that it has received remarkable support already in the first reading. The fact is that at the end of 2011, there were 70,000 legal persons with blocked accounts, and even more than 55,000 business entities were blocked for 360 days, and the inflow of bankruptcy cases according to the High Commercial Court data was nowhere near those figures. At the same time, indifference has reached record amounts of over 5.3 billion euros. These facts indicate that the system of bankruptcy measures prescribed by the bankruptcy law did not function as provided for in the adoption of that law. In particular, it can be observed that it does not work in a way where there is the possibility of continuing business after bankruptcy. The bankruptcy was generally meant to stop the business of society, to shut down activities, to fire workers. So-called The bankruptcy with the reshuffle was more of an exception than a rule. Also, the practice so far has been that a large number of bankruptcy proceedings take an extremely long time. This was seen in relevant international studies, and the bankruptcy procedures launched on average led to a settlement of only about 30% of the credentials' claims. One of the main causes of such a situation was the fact that the administrations of the companies did not comply with the provision of a bankruptcy law requiring the opening of a bankruptcy procedure within 21 days of the occurrence of incompetence for payment or over-indebtedness. In this way, such economic operators, which were obviously in serious problems, continued to operate, fell deeper into insolvency, and thus caused further insolvency of other business operators. In some cases, such a business was likely deliberate. If, therefore, such an economic operator had finally ceased to work in general on its assets, the claims of the creditors could not be charged. In particular, we all agree, there have been tragic cases where such entrepreneurs have experienced mass layoffs and non-payments of back-to-work salaries. This law should allow, therefore, before the bankruptcy procedure is launched for entrepreneurs to find a way out of the insolvency situation in certain problems in cooperation with creditors. We believe that this will enable the problem of indivisibility to be resolved significantly sooner and more effectively than before was the case when the usually problem has escalated to such an extent that entrepreneurs could put the key in the lock, fire workers, leave huge debts both to their business partners and workers. In the procedure provided for by this law, we consider and the creditors will essentially have a significant earlier chance of protecting their claims than has been the case so far where they are encouraged to play a more active role both in debtors and creditors. In relation to the first reading, the proposed text of the law has been substantially amended in Chapter 3 where the details of the mandatory multifaceted breakthrough are normalised. This instrument is also known in economic practice and is quite certain to introduce multiple breakthroughs as mandatory, now the ex-legation of breakthroughs is a significant unorthodox step towards curbing widespread insolvency. I say unorthodox because our right has not yet known the breach of the ex-lega, so the breach by law itself. However, regardless of what we think, that the escalating problem of indifference requires somewhat and unorthodox measures, I would say even a somewhat different paradigm. Therefore, we believe that the introduction of this instrument into legal regulation is welcome and we expect it to reduce the amounts of mutual claims and thus may contribute to the exit from the blockade of a number of economic operators. We welcome the fact that the proposal for a law in the second reading remains an unchanged provision whereby the entrepreneur will still be considered inequitable if more than 30 days later with the payment of the salary, and taxes and contributions that are charged with the salary we have appealed to in the first reading. It should also be pointed out that there is a provision that sets out the demand for workers and former workers as priority. As a new point in Article 41(1), it is further added that the proposal to close the procedure must contain a statement that the conclusion of a pre-banking agreement will not affect workers' claims which further protects as a weaker party in the contractual relationship. Otherwise, it could be easy for workers to be blackmailed and forced to accept certain solutions and even at their own expense. We think it's justified that workers who work live on their pay from first to first certainly deserve a more special treatment and we think a stricter approach here is justified. Other changes to the text of the proposal in the first reading are mainly about improvement, I would say reading a basic test that I believe will contribute to easier interpretation and easier and more efficient application of the law. For example, in the definition of liquidity it is stated that the entrepreneur is considered inequitable if he is more than 60 days late in the fulfillment of which that period was extended by 30 days as the proposal was in the first reading, and that provision of the opinion removes possible ambiguities related to the interpretation of Articles 11 and 12 which determines the deadlines of fulfillment and monetary obligations. It will also contribute to this objective in Article 48. Expansion and more precise definition of the duties of Commissioners of Pre-Agreement as in Article 49, the addition of paragraph 3 to which it is prescribed that against the decision of the Contracting Council that... the monitoring of the work of the Commissioners, the pre-demand settlement and the resolution of the resolution of complaints is not permitted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the attempt to make the law more effective, proposals for the addition of the Law on Credit Institutions where the obstacle set out in Article 157 in which credit institutions would essentially be limited to the application of this law, and also to supplement and amend the Act on the takeover of stock companies, which will later be discussed by a colleague of the Grbin. In view of the part of this basic law relating to non-fulfilment of monetary obligations, this bill, as already stated, represents an upgrade of the law within the deadlines for the fulfilment of monetary obligations and with it, I would say more protections of religious rights than so far, which acts against the extended climate of non-payment, and we positively assess that in Article 12(6), the provision that the time limit for the inspection of goods must be specified in the tender documentation preventing manipulations of subsequent extension of the contract by the stronger contracting party. We believe that the application of this law will achieve the goal of curbing growth, the resisting growth of indifference. Accordingly, the SDP Representatives Club will support these draft laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15806	The SDP club's position will continue to be presented by the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15807	Your Honor, we have a seemingly small law ahead of us. However, the law without which the implementation of the pre-bank settlement procedures would be impossible. In particular, the Act on the takeover of stock companies is one of the laws which protects interests and ensures the equality of shareholders when they are taken over by shareholders. One of the main instruments of this law is the mandatory offer for the acquisition of stock companies, which the stockholder is obliged to give when acquiring the control package and 25% plus one share, respectively. Such a procedure protects the so-called. small shareholders from losing their influence in the target society, that they lose the ability to influence decision-making and governance of these companies, and thus also to reduce their material rights stemming from the ownership of shares in the target society. However, such tendering procedure must have exceptions. Such exceptions already exist in the very text of the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, so we have an exception in the event of succession. We have exceptions in the case of the acquisition of shares of the debtor as well as the acquisition of shares of the rehabilitated society in the recovery process. It is precisely on the trail of such provisions that this law and another exception are introduced, and that is the exception to pre-fashion settlements. In the SDP, we consider such an exception not only useful but also meaningful. We believe that such an exception is in line with the legal legislation of the Republic of Croatia and the acquis of the European Union. Such a provision is also in the spirit of those I previously quoted, those concerning bankruptcy and those concerning recovery because it is our intention that the believer in the pre-fashion settlement process settles his claims without being forced to participate in management and in making operational decisions for society. Moreover, such an exception does not violate the rights of other shareholders, and their obligation was to do so before society becomes an unequivocal attempt to help, even financially, that society can operate. They didn't do it. Some because they couldn't do it, but many and because they didn't want to. In line with the SDP, we support this bill because we consider it another measure aimed at the overall recovery of the Croatian economy, in order to resuscitate the companies in the problem. But first of all, this law is important because the implementation of such pre-profit settlement procedures preserves the jobs we need today in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15808	Proposer's representative? No, I don't. Okay. We continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15809	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Deputy. So here we have this relatively extensive law in the second reading. What I would really like to begin my debate in this House has been mentioned several times, the minister himself mentioned. That, in a certain way, in the root of the problems that are manifested as indifference, insolvency and everything that happens under that title, there is actually slowness, ineffectiveness and, in fact, unsatisfactory functioning of the judiciary. Because basically, in our legal system, there are actually all the instruments for solving this problem, and ultimately, this law, in a significant way, introduces into the administrative process the procedure that is intended for bankruptcy with the reshuffle. So in some ways, I would like to say that the adoption of this law remains an unresolved and central issue, which is what prevents the judiciary, which prevents all the institutions that make up the system of justice from actually acting in accordance with the legal rules that we all have in common with the acquis which essentially contain all the instruments that should prevent such a significant problem from occurring and which should, in fact, prevent this problem from continuing to be repeated in the future. I'm actually asking all of us this question, and I'm asking myself a certain way because from the overall work experience that many of us have here, we've seen what this problem really looks like. The problem of infunctioning and ineffectiveness of the judiciary, a problem in which bankruptcy proceedings can be dragged away for years. Some of these bankruptcy proceedings that last for more than ten years I gain circumstances and personally know a number of details about them and the result is what is called legal uncertainty and non-compliance with the rights of the creditors, and what is very often pointed out in fact as an obstacle to investment, investment, the arrival of foreign capital in Croatia. And because this law, in fact, raises the most of my concerns about whether it actually means that the Croatian government is in fact in some way raising its hands from the judiciary because you are ministers before the law enters the first reading in one of the public stands and talks about this law say the judiciary is not working, we are the Government we will take responsibility for solving this problem. As a principled position, as your personal attitude can be commended, however, the judiciary cannot and must not give up in any way because the administrative procedure cannot replace the judiciary and cannot replace that division of power that is so deeply rooted in any democracy. It's a fundamental question that we are essentially interested in at the HDZ Club, concerned about this law. Whether by taking all of this into administrative proceedings, and essentially when it is studied well, it is the procedure of bankruptcy with the reshuffle of governments essentially giving up on the judiciary, giving up on insisting and finding a way for this system to function better, faster and more effectively. And until that happens, I'm afraid that everything called investment barriers will continue to stand and I'm afraid that there will still be a part of the participants in economic life, part of the taxpayers who will deliberately use such a situation to simply avoid fulfilling their obligations. Because what we welcome, in any case, means the transfer of positive aspects to the 11th chapter of the American bankruptcy law, parts of the German bankruptcy law that predict and prescribe how the settlement and bankruptcy proceedings are carried out in these economies, which includes a major role of existing and current management in companies. But in all these countries from which we have taken over and you propose and thus explain this law, the court is the one who plays the main central and fundamental role and is leading all these proceedings. It seems to me that this is an important reason because it prevents the process that is designed to address the problem from generating new problems. Since this whole procedure takes place in a administrative procedure that the court ultimately confirms to us at the HDZ Club, there seem to be a number of places and a number of places where these pre-fashion settlements can actually generate new court proceedings and in some way new problems. Therefore, my question was why it was not considered that within the justice system, it would actually determine the kind of taskphoras as you said it was formed within the executive authority and that through the mechanisms of the court they would implement and include the provisions of bankruptcy settlements, bankruptcy with reshuffles and achieve the acceleration of what is called a bankruptcy procedure in one way or another, and what indisputably takes us long and places us somewhere on the bottom of the scale. It seemed possible to think that within the framework of the judiciary, they would be identified, found by people who would be the only exclusive task. And in such a context, I think that better solutions could be achieved than there will be solutions to the administrative process, or a more lasting solution. In addition, the judiciary has gained some experience. People in the FINA, people in the Ministry of Finance are experienced with practical problems that may arise in this process, however relatively limited, and we will also see their functioning as to how it will be done. On the other hand, what the law is proposing here takes over, in my opinion, the weakest part of the bankruptcy, the weakest link of the bankruptcy process, and these are the bankruptcy managers. So it says in the law that, therefore, the head of the pre-fashion settlement will be determined from the list of bankruptcy managers. There are 350 people on the list of bankruptcy managers in Croatia. The judges themselves, when talking about the effectiveness of the bankruptcy process, point to the problem of the bankruptcy managers, their insufficient quality, education, guidance in economic life. As a fundamental problem, why do bankruptcy procedures last long, or why is there very little bankruptcy with the reshuffle? This administrative procedure takes over in some way the weakest, or at least one of the weak links of bankruptcy proceedings in the heart of this procedure. It seems to me that there will be a narrow throat, and it seems to me that despite all the good intentions, I don't know how 350 people will, just to get involved in this, how will the goals you set for themselves be achieved? Also, this law has an unusual overlap with the Banks Act. It is said in this proposal: "If the debtor is incompetent to pay or over-indebted, he is obliged without delay, no later than 21 days after the insolvency commences the pre-demand settlement procedure." The Banking Act states that within 21 days for the same reasons that are equally defined in the Banking Act, it is required to launch bankruptcy. How will the management of the company decide whether to launch a pre-determined settlement or bankruptcy? Because it seems to me he's faced with two laws which, in the same terms, bind him to two different activities for the same reasons. Let's just say that I would mark it as what we say, our system promotes legal uncertainty in relation to the economy. The master, someone out there who is neither worthy nor right, nor large procedures is faced with two equal provisions of two different laws that require him to do two different things. One of the important participants in the pre-demand settlement process is the auditor. We hold that the provisions on the role and what the auditor is expected to do actually makes this law inequitable. And it's inconclusive, and especially inexhaustible in the deadlines that are scheduled here, which is 120 days. Therefore, the debtor is obliged to draw up a report on the financial situation, a financial restructuring plan for the opening and implementation of the pre-demand settlement procedure. Those financial reports must be audited by the auditor. They shall not be older than 3 months and shall be accompanied by the opinion of the auditor. It's a cost-effective procedure, first. Secondly, it is unclear that the entity that is in the blockade will pay the auditor and from where the technology can pay the auditor without breaking the law and the auditor will not work without compensation. The audit tariffs are prescribed by the decision of their chamber. And it puts into essence the point of why a revised report is needed for pre-demand settlements, it is largely about a number of small companies, companies that do such an audit once a year, and any date of pre-demand settlement other than 31.12. requires the re-payment and taking of auditors. So, there's no deposit here to launch a bankruptcy procedure, but it's obvious. The procedure contains costs that are not small and the costs that kill can be greater than the deposit to launch the bankruptcy proceedings. Whether the auditor and how the auditor will be shown with a probability greater than or less than 50%, we find it questionable. Probably the promoter discussed this with the audit chamber, so it might be good to inform us about it, but the Law on Audition, international accounting standards kill the auditor, do not ask that it be manifested and in what way in terms of percentage in relation to its opinion. His opinion is conditional or unconditional. Asking the auditor to manifest itself with some percentage, I think that the obstacle that this law could also make inconclusive, as auditors could declare that this way they are expected to kill themselves in a way that participates in the handling and sharing of risks related to debtors and believers in this process. Therefore, in the conclusion of my presentation, I would briefly say that what we do in HDZ in relation to this solution that we consider particularly bad is that there is a parallel administrative process that could create a number of problems. Which indicates that the Government is giving up the battle in a certain way because it is indeed a battle to increase the efficiency of the judiciary and to seek and eliminate the reasons why this system is still in place 9 months before joining the European Union, it still does not function quickly and efficiently enough. What particularly surprised us in the second reading is the question of a mandatory multifaceted breakthrough that I spoke of even after your presentation. I don't particularly want to repeat myself, but we hold that the introduction, and the legal permission, and the legal regulation of multiple breakthrough actually opens up a big space, opens up a source of new indifference. Of course, in this proposal for a multi-faceted breakthrough, the promoter rejected one of the fears that has always appeared over the past 20 years when talking about this subject and that fear is that the state will be a loser. In this sense, the proposal is very clear and decided, no multi-faceted breakthrough can be made higher and higher public taxation therefore. Multiple breakthroughs can only be made between business entities. But that's exactly the kind of provision that actually tells and introduces one message and introduces in a certain way a pattern of behavior that says, okay. The state must pay for everything exactly and the office which is fine, commendable and necessary, and then in mutual payments between business entities we can calculate, we can unpaid, we can see who we will pay, counting on a breakthrough. And in order to be able to participate in a breakthrough like I said, you have to have some bet, which means on the one hand, some debt, on the other hand, some claim. Against multifaceted breakthroughs is not an instrument suitable for an efficient market economy. And that's exactly why over the past 20 years, the idea of mandatory multilateral compensation has always been rejected. We therefore conclude that the legislator's intention to improve bankruptcy proceedings is to expand the ability of pre-demand settlement instruments, but not in administrative proceedings, but in the way other developed countries do, which have significant experience in this part. And the provisions on multifaceted breakthroughs that have now appeared in the second reading are kept completely unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15810	Thank you. There are four replicas reported for this exhibit. First respected representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15811	You're telling your colleagues that pre-primary settlement will cause certain disputes, that this is a certain mistrust against the court. You should know about all the directives that provide and oblige Member States and those who want to be EU members to solve the so-called out-of-court route. and that they do everything to relieve the judiciary. Similarly, we have passed a law on the peaceful settlement of disputes in civil matters. Therefore, the settlement is if a settlement is reached, it cannot cause a court dispute because it is enforceable. A good settlement and peaceful dispute settlement is always good for the parties because they are better than any court decision. First of all, it allows for further business between conflicted parties, and I repeat, it's the cheapest for the party. And you need to know that in such a peaceful solution to the dispute all disputes in Europe are resolved 50 to 70% of disputes are not such, different species, those concerning civilians, those concerning trade law are resolved in such a way without the court even seeing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15812	The replica matches the respected Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15813	Thank you very much. So what I'd like to tell you is what I've been informed of exactly how this procedure works in Germany. That's right, there's a peaceful solution to the dispute and it's being encouraged and there's no part of the judiciary in it. If debtors and creditors fail to succeed in an extra-judicial process without any intervention from state or judicial authorities, then they report to the court. So there's no combination. Either it's a peaceful solution in a civil procedure between private persons or it's a court-led solution. We here have a combination of solutions because the way the law proposes you is denied because it is said at the end of "the provisions of this settlement should be confirmed by the court. If the deal doesn't work, then we'll go bankrupt." So the legislator himself is aware that without a court of law, he is not going. I therefore believe that it would be much more effective to prevent the opportunities that may arise during this process for multiple problems whether a task force was created by a group of people within the judiciary, exploited their experience in bankruptcys which they have acquired so far and thus transposed the provisions of both German and American law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15814	To the personal presentation of the replica, the distinguished representative of Luke Denon also stands up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15815	Dear colleagues in their debate on the proposal of the Financial Business Act, of course, you have noted well and found that the judiciary does not work for us or that it is burdensome in problems. At one point, you even said that the government of the Republic of Croatia seems to you either by applying or passing this law, the government thinks to give up or give up on judicial reform. So you said, of course, that task force as you called it, and by you, it might mean giving up judicial reform. Of course that's not true. But in a later debate, you said in the criticism of this law that it would be that the task force somehow joins that poor and inefficient judiciary again, so it's being settled in the context of this poor and inefficient judiciary. So it seems to me that a little illogically you've established the judiciary is not right. The government is trying to do something on a different law, and you're... you're back in the judiciary, not saying, of course, that the problem of the judiciary doesn't exist since yesterday, but that it's been going on for twenty years and I'm not going to talk about who's been in power for 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15816	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15817	Thank you very much. So that I think everything you've said I've said and I'll say it again. It is not my personal assessment but in a certain way I think it is the assessment that stands in this House, which is written in numerous reports, which is seen through different assessments of the degree of Croatian competitiveness when seen outside, which is that part of this problem also makes inefficient justice. And what I wanted to say with my proposal is that we must not let the judiciary out of it and we cannot give up but that we must look for ways to reduce this degree of ineffectiveness and how this judiciary begins to perform its fundamental function, which is to force all economic operators to act according to the law. The minister himself talked about it. So I think it's bad, that it's not good to design solutions that say ha, they work slow, let's find some more effective mechanism. In business, that may be true, in business it may be a great approach, but in a state where the judiciary has its role as the ultimate and final arbiter it has no objection to, such an approach can generate additional problems. I hope he won't, but he can also keep on the principle level that justice as a final, last-arbiter must not give up and that perhaps, within him, he should have sought solutions that would make all of this even more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15818	The desire to replicate was also expressed by Agent Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15819	Thank you. As far as the issue of conflict with this law is concerned, I must stress that there is a right, so there are rules on how certain conflicts of law are resolved, so it is said that... Therefore, the subsequent law changes the previous law, i.e. if there are conflicts between the provisions of the previous law and the subsequent law, is given priority to the provisions of the later law. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] In view of the observations that the judiciary is also derivated here and I would like to remind the state authorities that the settlement is essentially a contract that the parties are removing from each other a dispute or uncertainty in some legal relationship. So contract, basically in a private-legal relationship. This is where the state, I would estimate, acts as a certain catalyst that will lead to the conclusion of these settlements. So a number of these disputes that exist or uncertainty will be resolved, and in current legislation they should essentially go into bankruptcy proceedings. That's how the justice system's about to unload. The tendency in the judiciary is that the state withdraws as much as possible from some private-legal relations, leaving, in this case, left the creditors and debtors on the burden that they and tried to force them to essentially resolve relations with each other, and that only the judiciary should disburse which is therefore burdened. And your proposal would be aimed at additionally burdening the judiciary in some way, which would be counterproductive to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15820	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15821	So, look, imagine you're the CEO of some company and imagine that you're faced with this condition that your account has been blocked for 60 days and then you ask your lawyer what to do now. The lawyer will answer you, according to the bankruptcy law within 21 days you need to apply for bankruptcy, according to the Financial Arrangement Act you need to apply for a pre-departure settlement. How will you decide? This law does not derivate the bankruptcy law. The fact that he was chronologically adopted later, but the bankruptcy law is a fundamental law that defines the bankruptcy procedure. And some criminal provisions were introduced there, so we discussed that recently. So criminal provisions against administration, companies that don't stand and don't respect those deadlines. I think we should discuss this question, think about it and consider it. I think we can settle with one or two sentences. There must be lawyers out there who can imagine it, that's right, but let's just let these be real life issues that people are facing and people are asking, and we're discussing it here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15822	We'll hear another replica and respected representative of the Djuru Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I would also really like to confirm your finding that this law is actually dealing with the consequences, in no way with the causes that you mentioned that the fundamental problem of this moment situation is actually lying in the judiciary itself. This law will really allow you to, to put it so simply,... All of what we call a burning problem of indivisibility today, so to put out 70 thousand legal entities, try to save what is being saved, and take down the number of those 40 billion blocked at 5, 6, 7 or how much you already succeed, but the underlying problem and the underlying causes doesn't solve. [[You don't understand.]] And it's entirely wrong of the expectations you've placed in public...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15824	Your Honor, you've come forward with a replica of your colleague Martina Dalic's basic exposure, and you're replicating the minister. ... Stick to the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Well, we'll extend your time, not a problem of time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The problem is, stick to the Rules of Procedure. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15825	So it's entirely wrong of the expectations you've placed in the public that this law will address the issue of non-payment. So he won't, because he's basically not talking about what he's gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15826	Representative Popio, what was Martina Dalic putting in public? What Martina Dalic put in public, that's what I'm asking. ... You'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15827	Mr. Chairman, you're interrupting me in a position to say what I intend to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15828	Well, I'm interrupting you because you called in the line...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15829	Now you've taken my time...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15830	I'll give you all the new time, but please replicate Martini Dalic, not the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15831	Well, here's since you're presidencies, I'm going to retire here because I don't want to create a problem, but I don't know why you won't let me say what I finally wanted to say. And since you won't let me do it all the time, I'll sit down and you'll probably be short of what I'm in the middle of the line and I want to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15832	The word has now come to mind...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15833	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and Mr. Chairman, you do not have the right to interrupt the MPs before you heard what he wanted to replicate to Mrs. Dalic and he used everything he had and so we can say what we want to ask for a break of 15 minutes. So if you're going to take away our word if we want to say something to the Croatian public, we're going to say it this way. I'd like a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15834	Like this. First, I didn't take anybody's word away, but I warned him to stick to the Rules of Procedure, but you always have the right to a break to ask and I'm giving you a break of 10 minutes. Break time's up. I call upon the representative of the HDZ Club of Honored Ivan Shucker to take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I asked for a break on behalf of the club for the simple reason that neither as a parliamentary representative nor as a club, it is clear to us that after a very tolerated, constructive debate both by the promoters and by the position and opposition, what happened to you that you took away the word simply for no reason whatsoever that we only remember what it looked like in the morning. You have a phonogram that the Prime Minister is speaking to a suitable colleague, Lovrin, in a male face, not in a female, because he spoke to someone else. The chairman didn't interrupt. And it happens not once that every one of us, from opposition and from the rulers, speaks a little bit like this. But if we're going to limit freedom of speech in this House of Commons, then that's not going to be good. Because a fellow drinker did not go beyond the agenda with one word. The fact that he used something the minister said to support or replicate what counterpart Dalic said is his right to represent him. You can't rhetorically determine how a representative will speak. So he used certain statements by the minister to support certain differences that counterpart Dalic pointed out in her debate, looking at certain problems in this law. And I think it's rather desirable. Well, maybe it's good for the minister himself to support certain things. And maybe we'll agree on some differences. And I find it strange to say that you said at one point yesterday that you were the last one to make it impossible for a representative to speak in the Parliament. But my colleague, I'm gonna do it with all due respect, and I don't want you to get this wrong. You're one of the MPs who, very often, in one of these windy speeches, you know how to drift away from the subject a little bit, so nobody's ever taken your word away from you one way or another. And I think this is a very important topic primarily for Croatian businessmen, for Croatian citizens, for the Croatian state. And I don't think that even this intervention of itss should violate the very high tolerance that ruled in this House and which ruled on the parliamentary committees. This may be confirmed by the Deputy Minister of Finance. And I think all these days of discussion will be very constructive on the economic issues of the HDZ club. We haven't used anything that you've been using in any way over the past year, we've made a clear point as a responsible party, that we're the ones who want to help and what we said that we're going to criticise the government but what we think is good and that we're going to try to fix certain suggestions with our suggestions. My colleague Dalic just did it today. Not a single word of criticism, calling on the minister that indifference has grown, has not grown, like this, like this. So she brought out certain visions and views of this Law of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. What is your intervention and how did we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club understand it? We figured it out, dear gentlemen, as soon as you start saying something that we don't like, I'll take away your words. Because you're interpreting the Rules of Procedure from this position where you are always able to do so. You can always say there's something wrong with something. But the question arises is whether the primary thing here is that today we all express our opinion, that we are aware of the facts and problems of trying to fix this legal proposal and help Croatian citizens, help Croatian economics, or that it is far more important for us to show how we can, by training strictness in a certain way, limit how HDZ will speak. And therefore, I ask you nicely, Mr. Chairman, both of you and your colleagues on your part and of ours who chair the session that we have quite the same criteria for all. Because if that doesn't happen, unfortunately we're gonna be forced to look for a club break, and then on behalf of the club, we're gonna say what we wanted to say that they took away our word. However, our intention is not that. Our intention today is to try to see what may be the shortcomings of this law, try to fix it, and if we can do so together to vote in favour of this law and show the Croatian public that we can agree on some things and that it is not the politics of such sleazy and all that anyone here wants to show. But you, with your intervention, are making it impossible, and so I ask you nicely, fellow Stazic, let your colleagues, in particular, who are from a profession that will not be politicized to say until the end, so when they say the last word, then you will see whether they intended to do something else or indeed detach with what the minister said and also here. At the end of the day, the president of the Croatian government had not once responded to one representative as he did not remember a reply. The chairman wouldn't intervene on that. We in this House must all be equal, all who come for this pay phone must have the exact same rights. And that's why you once again appeal to Mr. Chairman, regardless of this empty hall, the hall of this House of Commons. It was a debate. I think this should continue. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Don't spoil the atmosphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15837	Here, thank you very much. First of all, I haven't taken anyone's word. That's incorrect. I've warned the Prosecutor's representative that he has to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure set out in Article 211 accurately describe the meaning of the replica. It's replicated to whoever's been talking before. Thirdly very important, not one HDZ representative or any other party, but neither I nor anyone else can take the right to pollomise with what the minister or representative of the government said. Well, that's his right. But not in the context of the replica of another representative, but in his basic debate, in the replica of the minister, because that is how our Rules of Procedure describes it. I'll stick to this Rules of Procedure, and HDZ can ask every 10 minutes for a break of 10 minutes because I'm holding the Rules of Procedure. It never occurred to me, nor would it occur to me to limit the debate and to prevent anyone from making any kind of stand. And I didn't warn Mr. Drinker about what he was saying. I warned him about what he was saying. He didn't, he didn't speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. A skilled speaker gets away with it very easily, a skilled speaker very easily and says Mrs. Dalic you didn't mention that the minister had let her go public and everything is fine. But it's a matter of exercise, it's not a matter of expertise, it's a question of keeping the Rules of Procedure. I don't see any need to discuss this now. I'm going to ask Mrs. Martina Dalic if she wants to answer the replica Mr. Drinker put out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15838	So when you did not allow the representative of the drinker to give the replica to the end, there was nothing to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15839	I completely agree that you have nothing to answer for. The word was requested on behalf of the proponent, Minister Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15840	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope I don't make a mistake about the Rules of Procedure. Basically, yes, there have been three debates of clubs, so I'd like to say very briefly about the Labourer's proposal to clarify the payout after the opening. We agree that there will be an amendment, and we will consider it and, however, if production continues, work must be paid for during the follow-up. Therefore, the proposal will be respected. We also estimate that the SDP club has proposed that by regulating the three-month processing of multi-party breakthroughs we can remove some misunderstandings and possible abuses and we will also accept. And a few words about the HDZ club exposure. The truth is, as you can see, we have given this law two more laws but from the domain of the Ministry of Finance. In the next two weeks, you'll probably see a change in the bankruptcy bill. Therefore, this regulatory pre-demand settlement will be incorporated into the bankruptcy law. So she'll be in that law because it's a parent law that has to regulate relations between creditors and debtors. Then some time procedures will be incorporated into that law and the dilemmas of the law will disappear. The law will be the most important thing, no bankruptcy. Because this reshuffle is the biggest problem of delaying proceedings, unsuccessful procedures, misappropriation of proceedings, and in fact, it was the least he had to do with judicial officials, and it was mostly, if we look at it, the bankruptcy managers, the people who ran the bankruptcy. It all happened out of court. And basically, the reshuffle becomes this procedure, and that's why we're turning it into an administrative procedure, and we're preparing everything for the court to decide. Therefore, once again, go back to the provisions of this law and you will see that when we are finished, then the Committee of Prophets proposes bankruptcy or proposes a settlement. But the judge invites every believer and maintains the hearing and the believers are before the court deciding on these decisions. And that's when the court decides whether or not it failed to make a pre-emption deal. The Court therefore conducts a completely independent procedure, only actions are carried out by administrative procedure. It means all those shops, and it's documents, papers, inviting the credentials to plead both this and it's preparing it. But regardless of what we've already called on the believers, regardless of what we've received from the trustee's decision, the court is calling them back on its own again. Therefore, try to understand this, by abolishing the reconstruction that was the greatest reason for the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, the government is now taking over this process, we form people who should not be from the justice domain and thus help the judiciary become more effective. And the reshuffle doesn't stop here, the prophet's decision will or won't agree with the debtor, when the court finds we have a pre-nuptial settlement. If the court finds that it is impossible to open up bankruptcy and then we have only very clear procedures, the proceedings of the workers go to the Bureau and the property is placed in relation to the claim. Therefore, this is a combination of preparatory work, not legal affairs, not court cases, to replace what everyone has criticised is not successful. And that's why I think there's no substitute for justice and it's the government's job to raise the level of efficiency of the judiciary. That the judiciary only deals with those jobs that it is. And if there is a will, we can determine it outside the judiciary, and help the judiciary make decisions and vice versa if that decision doesn't exist goes into bankruptcy, and you know what bankruptcy is. And we'll try to get through the bankruptcy and settle these costs, as you can see, we're not defining anything about the costs of this process, and it's going to be big. Somehow we'll try and solve that part by changing the law that will be before you. Then it'll be a complete package. And I believe why the bankruptcy managers? Because there will be no more redecoration, they will finish the jobs under the old bankruptcy law, yet we estimate by the new that a good part of them can do something and, as you know, our commissioners don't run any policy in companies that continue to work during the reshuffle, they just control financial orders. We don't want anyone to have a warrant to please a believer or anyone else. So, their job is to see if salaries are paid, whether labour costs are paid, which means energy, and I don't know what, but there's no conclusion of any new contracts, no transfer of money to the benefit of another believer. And it's their only job. And to be able to perform, we must say, I repeat again the special jurisdiction in which the cases are complex are 574 legal persons. Which is not a problem that when there is limited action I can do that part, and somewhere in the ordinary process goes 3800 legal persons, which means we have less than 4 000 legal persons who are essentially under special conditions, and that means they have to have audits, they have to have control of these commissioners. And I think it'll be possible to do that. These are our estimates we've had. The cost of the audit is, but we estimate that these are still strong companies, numerous companies and that in that part of the audit can be paid. When we talk about 50-50 or 60-50, 50,000 items relating to a reduced procedure are not available here, and therefore we think that they will be able to be carried out both without audit and without commissioners. Therefore, the government's policy is clear, trying to remove from the judiciary everything that has caused in any way ineffectiveness of the judiciary. Not wanting to take any right in administrative proceedings, if these are however relations that must be settled by the court. And we tried very clearly to make this difference. I repeat, in these six months, the mass of talks, from the Ministry of Justice to the Constitutional Court, where constitutional judges have also suggested a very clear distinction. What is not legal affairs, and we can characterise them as a voluntary settlement and the preparation of documents has kept the decision of the judiciary. Therefore, the government all seems to dissipate the judiciary of affairs that can be done and more controlled by the government in order to be more efficient, and to decide what is common and what is right, not touching. Leave the trio to the judicial authorities. So I believe that by putting this into the bankruptcy bill, you will slowly round up the whole picture, and we know that there has been no bankruptcy, there have been a lot of bankruptcy abuses, and that this is the inefficientness that is present. Here, Sibenik is our final example, the problem of autotransport, car transport. First we tried to settle the deal, so we found someone who might have entered the equity, tried to negotiate with banks, tax and all. The owners said no, it went bankrupt, the bankruptcy judge decided three months to make a decision. Three months, and we need to have a solution yesterday. These are the things where we want to speed up with this kind of procedure, and if it's bankruptcy, if it's liquidation, that moment will take the judicial body upon itself. So try to understand that the government has not left the judiciary. That in this part of this proposal, the justice minister has the same huge stake, to kill this is a law that was also multidisciplinary, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance. We tried to find a solution together. So the law that raises the efficiency of the judiciary doesn't interfere with their autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15841	Thank you, Minister. Now on behalf of the HNS club, the debate was shared by Srdjan Gjurkovic and Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club supports the adoption of the Financial Business Act and the pre-bank settlement. This government has so far proved not only to be an active government in solving problems, encouraging investment, fiscal consolidation, and also stabilising the ratings that are crucial to citizens, the state, the economy. To be able to use all these measures and instruments to improve the situation in the economy. In particular, this law regulates the market and actively engages in the resolution of consequences, but also the prevention of future possible causes of non-availability that has so far been and which has been authorised. In 2003, the coalition government found a total number of non-leading, insolvent business entities of 64 000. At the end of the term, there were 45 grand. After that, the number rose again by the end of last year, 70,000. These are the causes of today's condition. The outstanding orders of business entities, we remain with legal persons, in 2000, were 26 billion, at the end of the term of 11 billion. Today it's over 30. It's the cause, and it's clear who let it happen. What do we have today? In particular, what must we do? 3700 legal entities with so-called The usual inequity, 700 million kuna, 16.5 thousand entities by blocking accounts up to 360 days, 7.7 billion kuna and over 56 thousand entities in blockades for more than 360 days, 36 billion kuna. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And what does this government do? Preparation of the law, puts itself ahead and says we will help, we will restructure, help restructure, bring into liquidity all those who have a chance to maintain employment, increase employment and what is crucial as a consequence, no more non-payments. Payment deadlines for all government, local and regional authorities will be 30 days. Health and economics will have a deadline to pay all the bills for 60 days. Whoever doesn't pay in due time goes into a pre-war deal, if there's no deal going liquidation. In the pre-demand settlement accounts will be unblocked so that the agreement with the creditors is possible and that it could function normally, and that, of course, the audit could also be paid. Companies that have products, have lots of employees, they are priority, they create added value and they will be the first to be dealt with. The consolidations are not for those entrepreneurs who pulled out the property, they signed it over to families and all those who think they could get out of the process. Believers who write off the debt, the amount written off will be tax-recognised expenditure. Therefore, there is the possibility and conditions, what is crucial to this government, essential in all laws and general tax law, and the Law on the promotion of investment and competitiveness. So, all those measures, the instruments that are needed, that are clearly read out why we are an uncompetitive country, all of which are applied through the legal framework, through the measures, the instruments of this government, through several laws, and we have heard soon the new Banking Act. So far, all governments, especially in the last 8.10 years, 8 years, have mostly worked on support. So we only had sectoral support in shipbuilding and transport of 23 billion kuna. And what's in it for us? Once again, again, situations in which the economy is not operational, did not pay the bills neatly and did not pay the salaries. The draft law and the debates made it clear that the Croatian Association of Employers and Banks and clearly accepted the fact and additions and very many amendments accepted by the positioning parties in the best desire that when the law comes into force, the highest quality application and the conditions I stress are taken over by the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the implementation of very complex procedures, very complex and responsible situations, but it is ready because the coalition government is therefore also receiving elections and therefore we can look the citizens in the eye. One of the important things of these laws that the Credit Institutions Act allows banks that are most often with the state to turn their credit claims into roles that it does not burden them with the balance of course with the consent of the Croatian National Bank and this whole procedure of the Committee of Trustees of the Bank that will be led as commissioner of all procedures with the FINA and the Ministry of Finance which will monitor, encourage and speed up the key and demonstrates a clear indication that within 6 months we will know about the success of introducing order on the market and payments, and in particular rescue and restructuring of Croatian firms. This government knows and it is clear to it that the largest number of entrepreneurs comes from private property. 97.9% of entrepreneurs on the market are entrepreneurs. They employ more than 840 citizens and citizens. Their gross profit is 80% of the total gross profits of entrepreneurs. Their investments are 69.3% of total investments in the Republic of Croatia. I'm talking about data for the first six months of this year, so that's very fresh data. And the average monthly net salary per kuna employee in the receiving sector at 840 thousand employees is 92% of entrepreneurship employees. This just shows that this government does not only know very well, feels and all the laws, and especially this Financial Business Act wants to react, want to help and be a partner. Many from the opposition calling us Greece, many from the opposition calling us the Government for tax repression, they in this way do not want well the Republic of Croatia because this government has shown also the retention of ratings, by self-administering order in state finances, respecting the law that it is not repression but that it is something that some obviously did not know it should be done. We are far from Greece and other countries, we want them to be successful and I think our government can be an example of them and an indicator of how it is done and I believe absolutely with the support of the citizens that they understand that we are doing the best, that we are doing the best and that we will be successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with the deputy and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The previous speakers were the masquerade of people from the economic profession who entered into the very details of this law in professional terms, developing in the variants of potential problems in its application. I come on behalf of the CNS as a man who is not an economic profession but I took out my first seal of the taxpayer in 1989 and for 20 years I was one of those to whom this law applies as a small craftsman but as a man who was both an employer and a taxpayer. This law has the full title Final proposal of the Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement Act and I have personally given it my title and called it the law on the final introduction of order into the Croatian economy. I'm going to try to give people's representatives of the CNS some practical view of this law and explain the reasons why we feel it is necessary to pass this law. It also deals with its main issues that are being regulated are insolvency and insolvency, financial business, envisioning the introduction of a new pre-demand settlement mechanism but, most importantly, resolving the issue of payment deadlines among economic operators and finally putting the key problem and the cancer of the Croatian economy together in the context of a reasonable and operational one. We all know what practice existed so far, and we all know that it could have been a responsible person in a legal person without having to deal with it, and that same legal person, for example, doesn't pay the goods for months or years. And we all know very well the truth that because of the muggings who have been in various ways and under various circumstances infiltrated the Croatian economy, we will now not bother the public with historical stories, that because of the mangoons who tend to yachts and expensive limos many manufacturing companies have failed in which hardworking workers have made a fair living for their bread, and honest executives have tried to survive in this business jungle and secure their people's wages. I know an entrepreneur in Sibenik who, for example, has spent his entire life in entrepreneurship since working youth, has never been late with the salary of his employees, has built a small company that has a dozen employees, has neatly paid respectable tax amounts the only reason why there are no 50 employees and therefore has not spread his job and business is legal uncertainty, non-payment and a simple need to survive that through the business world in the Republic of Croatia he is trampling like through a minefield, making sure that he does not step on someone who is willing or take goods or consume services, and ultimately does not pay the bill by not thinking about whether one day the company will go bankrupt. I also know about a very successful medium-Dalmatia company which is now investing in a new production plant, which produces a world product, exports its goods, part of it places on the domestic market, unfortunately, and today they have unpaid goods in tens of millions of kunas. Now, at the moment of the drought, investment would be extremely important if their quality goods were delivered fairly and paid in time, and they were not paid because we didn't have mechanisms that sanctioned incorrect business in time. If we had a law like this 10 years ago, I'm personally convinced, and maybe the experts won't agree with me, the number of companies that were listed this morning as the companies that failed and who are now in the bankruptcy sink would certainly be smaller. Such a law finally clearly defines the responsibility of the board and the responsibility of the supervisory board, as well as the consequences for failing to comply with this law, gives hope that the application of such laws and similar laws in the future will finally introduce order into Croatian society. There have been comments, some of them are also respected and the fact that the ministry is open to suggestions, that it has accepted a whole series of amendments, both political parties and the Croatian Employers' Association, bear witness to responsibility and serious access to such a legal document. And it is finally time for Croatian politics to function in this way because today its real position is very similar to the position of surgeons on the battlefield. Decisions must be made because the situation in which Croatian society is located, and especially the Croatian economy is alarming. Finally, this law allows for safer business and greater resilience for workers, which includes many elements that actually act preventively as alarms. With respect to this law of an alarm lamp that shows that the company has strayed from the right path of business will start much earlier and we will not be in a situation where employees of a particular company, employers remain in debt at 7, 8, 10 months' wages, and we have too much of such situations. The HNS will support this law, welcoming the fact that the legislator has accepted a whole series of useful suggestions that best testifies to his good faith, and ultimately I will also say for which reason we also need to introduce order into the Croatian economy. In Greek mythology, the number 300 marks one of the most positive stories Greeks are proud of. The memory of 300 Greeks reminds of the pride they feel against Leonid and his 300 fighters at the Thermopil Clan. In Croatia, in a small town called Sibenik, for me the largest is personal, number 300 only causes discomfort and shame, and we all have to be ashamed of the fact that 300 workers of the Sibenik Revija who spent their youth on the sewing machine for 12 years waiting for the rule of law to function, to conduct bankruptcy and finally get 9 back salaries that they have earned fairly for the sewing machine. For 12 years, the period in which Egyptian Pharaohs without hydraulics and mechanics built pyramids, and for objective or subjective reasons, for 12 years, did not find a way to solve the company's issue because the company went down into a bankruptcy called bankruptcy. So if we can, ladies and gentlemen, pass a law that will at least partially help us save at least a part of the company from being called bankruptcy, in time to set off alarms and initiate mechanisms of correct and responsible respect and conduct of the financial policy of the firm, then we will bring such a law, and time will show as well as other laws that are its possible weaknesses and shortcomings. And as we adopted a new concession law the other day after only three years of applying the 2008 law, because in those three years as a society, we became convinced that there were weaknesses. Let's give this law a chance and because of the fair and responsible policy relationship both towards employers and the economy, but also according to hundreds of thousands of workers whose existence depends on the success of the economy, let's support this law unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15844	Thank you, too. At the presentation of counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic, counterpart Djuro Popijac announced a replica. Here you go, buddy Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15845	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Risking, of course, that I say something again that you might not like, but since you switched chairs. Mr Gjurkovic said something in the sense that this law will also help to impose order in payments, i.e. to combat the problem of indifference and mention, of course, the obligation for the state to pay in 30, 60 days and all that is related to the state, which is undeniable, so that there was a commitment and so far, no one has prevented the state from doing so and all that it does to the state. But what if he doesn't pay, what happens? Therefore, Article 38 speaks inter alia, means paragraph 3: the pre-departure settlement procedure cannot be carried out against the Republic of Croatia, HZZO, HZMO and local and regional self-government units. All the same as it was, so what new mechanisms were introduced in relation to, of course, aside from the necessary restructuring, except what the Ministry of Finance is trying to do with the state budget. And what about the problems of local self-government and the businesses it controls. So if the mechanism and practice of non-payment continues, nothing happens, entrepreneurs remain practically the same mechanisms as before. The same goes for all other payments. So, the payment deadlines are 30, 60 days, and what if they're not paid? So there are, of course, mechanisms when pre-curricular settlement mechanisms begin to practice, but some preconditions are needed. So most of the things and most of the causes that have led to these consequences remain and just to say what I wanted to say at the time. So this conclusion definitely helps to clean up the existing state. However, much more will be needed for, as you said, the final introduction of order into the Croatian economy than this law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15846	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15847	Dear colleagues, there were laws and obligations to pay by the state and the public sector, state-owned companies. However, there was no political will. The government has both the determination and the political will to comply with the laws, and as far as local, regional self-government is concerned, of course, voters in the elections will clearly define those who respect the laws and those who do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15848	Thank you very much. At the presentation of colleagues, we have three replicas reported. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15849	Here is Honorable counterpart Baranovic, this law which we will also support solves the consequences, but does not solve the causes of this situation. And perhaps the Greeks are proud of that number 300 but I, like Djakovcan and representative from Slavonia and Baranja, feel the discomfort, indignation and for the sake of those 300 workers of the Sibenik Revija because there is a bankruptcy that lasts 12 years. But I feel uncomfortable and because of these 300,000 unemployed in Croatia. And we need to run first and foremost with laws and decisions just to reduce that abnormal number. And here, I appeal to the government here because we have one bankruptcy of young people out there protesting in that cage because the state, the competent ministry, does not want to provide them with the financing of a traineeship for healthcare professionals. I think that first and foremost I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, here by solving certain consequences that last for many years, a number of years since the conversion and privatisation, so some tails are being dragged out of socialism so that by making decisions and inaction we do not bankrupt those young people whose only chance this is, or to find a job somewhere outside of Croatia, to do a traineeship, get confirmation of their profession or to continue their education. If this is not done then my suggestion is not to spend taxpayers' money but to have this one headed here in St. Mark that we don't move that cage at all because every day more and more people will come here to protest not for the sake of doing but for the sake of inaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15850	We have a reply to the replica, colleague Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Vinkovic, I agree with you about some assessments of the situation in which many workers, not only the workers of the Sibenik Revija, have found themselves. It fell apart in the Sibenik economy and much more, and partly because of political decisions. But we're not gonna deal with history. What makes me happy is that your party will also support this law, and I will once again conclude in response to you that this law is part of what we must do as responsible people in politics to finally introduce order and criteria to Croatian society, restore citizens' confidence that politics can have and have fair intentions and finally ensure that people can be born in legal certainty, raise children, deal with entrepreneurship, work, school and end the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15852	Thank you, too. Next line, Ivan Shuker, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that you mentioned Revija because in this way you confirmed the debate of Mrs. Dalic on behalf of the HDZ Club that this problem of indifference and these non-payments will certainly be agreed with me by my colleague Linic. You and I have talked about this a lot. Unfortunately, it is not in this financial sector, unfortunately. If it were in the financial sector, the financial sector would have solved it long ago than lying somewhere else. And now I'm going to tell you about the workers of Revia because last night, the bankruptcy manager called me without a problem. Look, the government then and I, as a resolute minister, offered to the bankruptcy manager, Mr. Linic, that the government would give up its claims in favour of the employees of Revija. But the only thing we asked the bankruptcy manager to provide us with a list of how much of that part of Revia's work will be named after us so we don't get what happened to Imo's machine that the government gave up 6 million, and that the bankruptcy manager picked up 2 and a half million in the name of some bankruptcy costs and the workers only got 3 and a half million. That's the truth about Revia's bankruptcy when he calls. You have official documents. That can be checked at the Ministry of Finance. So I'm not talking about it. Therefore, but the same case as you said about your Sibenik so I can say about my Great Gorica. The company in 2000 in commercial bankruptcy, with its infrastructure and all that bankruptcy is not finished until today. A colleague Linic probably remembers that, was then deputy prime minister of the government. It's not over until today. And now we're asking ourselves a question, and let's just say that neither colleague Linic is now a minister, nor I, nor anyone else before the bankruptcy manager can do anything. You can't order anything from him. And those are the facts. Same story, I'll talk about it in an individual debate. I don't have enough time. And that's one of the reasons why you just introduced the OIB was just what your colleague Linic was talking about this morning. In fact, 16 and some more thousands of companies or over 60% blocked without even one employee who accumulates around 60% of the total funds blocked. And then you have between 1 and 5 20 of them and another percent that accumulates an additional 25, 26% of the funds. One more sentence, please. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] And you from 1 to 5 on average have 1.6 employees. But colleagues, let's go detect the problem, let's go solve it. That's why I said that today's tolerance debate is going towards trying to solve the problem. But we have to detect the problem if we're going to solve it, because this is just a fire extinguisher if we don't solve some other problems. Thank you very much, dear colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15854	We have an answer, my colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Shucker. I'm not a good knowledgeer of the details of Revia's bankruptcy, so for these reasons, I didn't find it appropriate for me to refer to anyone in person. I mentioned the bankruptcy of Revija in the context of the need for one agony of such families to finally be resolved. Who's got all the action and stakes in this case because of the non-determination, I wouldn't take it as my right to arbitration. And as for your findings and alluding to the role of the judiciary in this whole story and the functioning of the rule of law, I have a much worse opinion in the judiciary system in Croatia than you personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15856	Thank you. And the last replica of Ante Kulusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15857	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. My colleague Baranovic, the truth does not deal with politics but with the truth worrys about the Revija case. What former Minister Schuker was now talking about at the meeting, I was present with a bankruptcy manager, with the mayor of Sibenik, where it was literally told to the bankruptcy manager of the state to give up its 60-million-dollar claims in favour of the workers and workers of Revija just to make a bankruptcy plan from which it is visible exactly in the lip how much each worker will get. Unfortunately, it never came. And we don't have just, it was in the Betex business at that time 3, 4 years ago, here's a fellow Vidovic, and then there was a company in the Sibenik Work, and there was a Rost sport, so there were three auctions selling the entire Revija where it was supposed to be in the first competition with Betex 100 workers, in the first competition there were 100 workers that had to be, later 50 and then last night the bankruptcy manager dead on HRT said that the Ministry of Finance was wrong, or then Minister Schuker that he didn't spend it. Today these workers would certainly get their money whether in full or not, I don't know that depends on the size of the sale, then it was somewhere I think about 8 million kuna, and later there was some contest and 9 million kuna. Unfortunately, however, 12 years of bankruptcy is being conducted and what fellow Shucker said, and you, Mr. Minister, know that a bankruptcy manager can't just do anything and then people strike today and those who have needs and who don't have needs, and that's the thing that should and could have been solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15858	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15859	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Kulusic, I must say that it is news to me that you do not want to deal with politics, and as far as the Sibenik Revija is concerned, I stress that I am not and do not see myself as an arbiter, nor do I want to deal with forensics without arguments about who is guilty, who is not, I have cited this example in the debate, and I want to point out that it is very important that we take all to ensure that firms that face difficulties have a chance to avoid bankruptcy and to consolidate their business and to return to healthy feet. This is the only motive and motive for a man who has compassion for the injustice these women workers of Revija have been experiencing for 12 years because of the failure of the system. Whether it's a bankruptcy manager or someone else's fault is more or less I'm not invited to bring it to trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15860	Thank you. This is what we're done with. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15861	Here is Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy, MPs and MPs. When we discussed this bill at the HDSSB club, someone came up with such a witty idea, and compared this pre-fashion procedure with the litigation procedure in litigation procedures like some analogy, it's not exactly the same but it's the same as trying to reconcile before the liquidation. However, we believe that this bill is really very good in this situation where the Croatian state and Croatian economy are now in place and that we as a club of HDSSB fully support this bill. This is, after all, one of the few proposals of the law, at least in this government's mandate, which came in this single whole form with one whole concept of what to do. So, so far, they come in a variety of corrections, guidelines, attempts to model a little bit, this is one attempt at a whole legal solution that will try to try in such a deviating situation as the Croatian economy and Croatian finances are today obviously to extract what they actually manage to get out of in the first place. Also, there have been two amendments. It is especially important that this one amendment, which we will also advocate to enter into the law, is in fact that the salaries of workers become what enters the front row of those obligations that are paid, rather than that of workers with everything else, as they are now forgotten in this bill. It is also good to draw attention to the fact that we had all the legal legislation that these problems could actually be solved. But the fact is, they didn't get rid of it. And the fact is, now the situation is what it is. And expect that something will happen and that this country will start to function and that these commercial courts and these bankruptcy managers will function completely illusory. In this country, economic crime which has indeed been remarkable in the process of conversion and privatisation and in the process of managing and stealing later these public companies have been arrested, prosecuted and tried both politicians and lawyers and ministers and state officials and lawyers. How many judges have been prosecuted? Could all these processes in the process of conversion and privatisation that took place without these judges? Could all these bankruptcy malfeasances have occurred without judges of commercial courts and their kind or such participation or glare? How many judges of commercial courts or judges of county courts have been prosecuted in procedures for stealing in the process of converting state property? Or later on, all these malfeasances in public enterprises? So it is our job to speak of this House as a people's representative and not to let it go. And of course those commercial courts in bankruptcy proceedings didn't work and they're not working today and they're not going to work. And from that point, of course, we support what the government has done and what you've actually done as a minister, which is to try to take it simply. In a way, you'll take over as executive authority. But there is no need to hide before the liability of these trade courts and their inactions. And you need to seriously see the reasons for this inconceivable. And of course the whole of Croatia has been traumatized and all regions and all counties and all cities and Croatian people have been traumatized by the fact that these Croatian companies have disappeared, that our jobs have disappeared. That hundreds of thousands of people were poored to make a few thousand people enormously rich. They had them and the attacks still have them. When it comes to this bill, it would refer to the role of bankruptcy settlement commissioners as surely the weakest link in this bill, because we see that these bankruptcy settlement commissioners go from a list of bankruptcy managers who today have a large number of bankruptcy procedures, or have no time, or have no knowledge. There are certain numbers that are successful, but they have already been proven unsuccessful. In particular, it would refer to Article 47(4), which says: "Apart from the person referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the Commissioner of the Pre-accession Agreement may also be a lawyer.". I would like to remind you that it is the duty of the Commissioner of the Pre-Arrangement Agreement to oversee financial operations, to review claims. So, to monitor financial operations. And now, what are the competences of a lawyer to do this job? What kind of maths and financials did a lawyer take in college or law school? Why does a forestry engineer, does a forestry engineer have better competences than a lawyer? Where did the lawyers find themselves now with a list as one group added here? Why aren't the graduate economists added? Well, there's going to be some graduate economist with some competences, and with the master's, and with the Ph.D.'s, they're going to be on the market. Where'd the lawyers come from? I'll remind you that yesterday we buried public executioners in debates, and on Friday we'll have our hands on it. If we had a group here in some way, we would have been systematically comfortable. So, you know which group of socialists has some use for what we voted for. Isn't this the same group we're guessing here again? Where do they come from now? Therefore, the HDSSB Club will submit an amendment seeking to delete this article, where it is taxed by lawyers as one separate group that may still be in the role of Commissioners of the Pre-accession Agreement. And I'm saying, I don't see what the competencies are, given that the role is the duty of the commissioner of a pre-departure settlement to monitor this financial business. What are the competences of a lawyer for these jobs compared to other people? I'm saying, the forestry engineer had a class of math and finance, a farm engineer from the PMF, and what are the competences of lawyers? So, I don't really see them here, and I think this article here, by chance or by no chance, fits one group, for no rational reason. Here, perhaps the minister will be able to tell you what it is. We'll just ask to erase it. Or expand and allow these jobs to be employed, for example by unemployed masters of economic sciences with a working internship, or doctors of mathematical sciences, there are thank God as much as you want on the market right now. But overall, in this situation where today the Croatian state is located, in which the Croatian economy and this way, in some perhaps somewhat unusual or in societies that would be arranged, is actually unnecessary. In a way, the takeover under the supervision of the executive authority, the rescue procedures or the final liquidation of these companies. Is at this moment where today is the Croatian state, and Croatian society and the Croatian economy, welcome. He would also warn, when it comes to state property, there are still very many state-owned assets under Audi's supervision. Nothing happened in Audi, except it was "Sniff Kurt ride Murt."". In the same way, Audiom is managed only from another center and through other people. He's still uninhabited of state property. The mass of these companies remains, part does not pay the wages, part is before bankruptcy, in bankruptcy or before liquidation. Is it possible for the finance ministers, although it is not currently under your supervision, given that you have divided the competences well or whether these state assets can be put more into operation and that more ways. The model of robbery, irresponsible management and understanding of state property as its own party, finally completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15862	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ivan Grubisic signed up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15863	"When a man makes an appointment, he makes an appointment.". So this is about, when it comes to this bill and amendments, the problem is will those who are supposed to make it happen and implement it? Because it is noted that various lobbies work in Croatia and are very well organized. Even someone said they were better organized than the state itself and that organized mafia was better organized than the state. So I would warn that these lobbys in the judiciary that exist, and the legal lobbys, if all have the main word, that people should be checked out and that they should meet three preconditions. One is a waist, but not just a waist. The second is moral recognition and honesty, and the third is social sensitivity. Clearly, as independent advocates, me and my colleague will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15864	Thank you very much. Before I give my colleague Djurovic the opportunity to respond to the replica, he would welcome members of the Hungarian Parliament's Agriculture Committee, who came to visit and are in the middle gallery. Good afternoon and welcome. ... Thank you. [[Applause.]] We have a reply to the replica, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15865	Thank you. Mr. Representative, you have noticed one fact, which is that Croatian society is deep, not only divided, but cemented by various interests. But there is one group of people who have been paid for it, and here to sit and to defend the interests of Croatian citizens independently, the interests of the Croatian state regardless of which party they belong, but if we define the existence of these interests. And these are not only independent representatives, but they are party representatives, they are all those whom Croatian citizens have chosen, paid and told them that they are sitting here and defending these interests, that these interests clearly define and that these interests clearly defend them. I think that we have all recognised, more or less, in this debate so far, that at this point, one such bill is certainly in the interest of Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15866	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first reported to Domagoj Hajdukovic. And the minister, excuse my colleague Hajdukovic. The minister called in his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15867	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the view of HNS and HDSSB's stand-up clubs just a few words and in the irma of the proposings. I would point out again that the judiciary is the priority of the government of the Republic of Croatia. You know well that until the 1.7th and European judicial monitoring, and that the Government is doing everything possible to raise this judiciary by 1.7 next year's efficiency of trial and action. Therefore, all that we are assessing is that we should not burden the judiciary with trying to remove it from the judiciary and regulate it through administrative procedures. Since the assessment of the justice system itself was that the biggest problem was to rebuild bankruptcy and that it was being treated too long ineffectively, that both employees and creditors were at risk and that the collection itself was below 30%, that was why we went into pre-departure proceedings. Why? Is at this point anyone who works in settlements a premonition of settlements can be subjected to your criticism, your dissatisfaction, because they are representatives of the executive authority, hence full responsibility to the Croatian Assembly. And that's why we estimate that there will be no mistakes. It is the direct responsibility of both the Government and some of us ministers who will be directly in charge of these... and therefore we are convinced that everything will be done to find a solution through the attempt to settle the creditors and debtors. Unfortunately, one of our failures is that we don't have a procedure today and the Banks Act, because I'm telling you, there's going to be a predetermined settlement in the Banks Act and there's going to be no redecoration, they're being abolished because they're ineffective in the bankruptcy and they're being abolished so that one of the debtors and the creditors wouldn't speculate with a possible time delay, so they don't actually have to make a decision. And like this, whoever wants a better charge, a better charge will be determined for the settlement because it is certainly a higher percentage of the charge than it will be in liquidation and in fact the breakdown of the property is not even a property market at this point because whoever is counting on it will not be charged. And on the other hand, it's not a very easy burden to make a decision we won't... so we don't care about employees. And that's something that's necessary to change, and you'll find this law where you'll simply see that the bankruptcy procedure is judicial, that it remains in his jurisdiction. The final decision on settlements is a judicial matter and all technical support goes through this part precisely so that they can account for the parliamentary authority and see the effectiveness of the executive authority and that the judiciary remains independent in that part. Here, therefore, it is important to understand that it is not a confiscation but an assessment of the government that some procedures should be changed. I must say that the law will still come and that this summer you've had a controversy about many of the laws we're preparing that are once again the dispensation of justice. And the auto responsibility you've certainly read a lot about this summer you'll see again these are all objects and suggestions that will speed up the process and relieve the judiciary and the European Commission's assessment that it can conclude that the judiciary is well prepared to be effective because everything that is not the subject of law has been relieved. So here's hoping that when you discuss the bankruptcy bill or two in a week, you'll also see a whole set of all these items. What I want to point out is that in this debate there was an objection to lawyers. Why lawyers? Therefore, we can still think about it depending on your amendments because for us, the Commissioner only needs to approve payments. Payments shall not be subject to economic activity in those 120 days of settlement. We will have existing administrations existing directors who have to run the business means they are you but we aim to protect the believers. What we fear is that these directors, that these administrations may not succumb to the personal interests or interests of protecting a believer, means that in those 120 days they pay a warrant to a believer based on demand and put him in a better position. And that's where the responsibility should be. That's why we think it's not a problem for bankruptcy managers to do it. They know very well what it means to please the believers because we have to be careful not to abuse this procedure and the 120 - day moratorium for abuse and putting a believer in a more favourable position, and therefore we thought that lawyers have a very clear view of what it is to please the believers, what the law on bankruptcy is saying, and what are the responsibilities to them if they please the believers. But I'm saying we also accept the suggestion that they don't have to be, we leave it to you but try to understand, it's not about running, it's not about anything but paying. Payment must go for pay, for material if production continues and nothing else. Old debts are the subject of settlement and court. It shall not be subject to payment in this part. And that's why the lawyer was planted, but if you think it shouldn't be, I say we leave it to you to see the proposal and we'll think about it. At the very least, we can remove that part and move it because we simply can't put anyone in it. Consider the protection of the credentials to be the basis for why we put the commissioners away. They don't run the process, they won't decide anything because the management presidents stay, the directors stay, no one changes them, three months running the process is one thing, it's in their jurisdiction. It's our concern to protect our faith that someone is not giving a warrant that means a more favourable position. There was a debate here whether state institutions were essentially in a more favourable position since they were not concerned. When we talk about individuals, you have seen criminal provisions if they are not paid within the time limit, so individuals in state institutions are not excluded and they will pay the fines. There's still a question, and what if it doesn't pay? Then I must tell you that in the preparation of specific laws, we are going back to the laws on the restoration of institutions, and that means if the institution does not pay within that time, the founder of the institution will address the minister and lose all management rights. Therefore, additional laws will make it impossible for all in Croatia to avoid payment deadlines, will lose founding rights, and then all responsibility is on the ministers, and ministers are essentially ahead of you. You control them, so try to understand. The biggest ones don't pay for county hospitals. The biggest responsibility is to the mayors and their directors. Since the entry of this law no more. They have to pay in 60 days, if they don't, give up all the founding rights, your responsibility will be to the minister. Therefore, this law is part of a complete package in which discipline will be at all levels. Therefore, try to understand that another whole package of laws comes that will make discipline primarily of state bodies, state institutions, local environments and everything else. Thank you very much. Once again, I thank all the clubs for their support and note, we will be able to implement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15868	Thank you, Minister. We have reported four replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15869	Dear Mr. Minister... And we took that as part of one whole package of laws, and it's time, it's really time to introduce financial discipline. [[You don't understand.]] Here I will take this opportunity, given that fellow Djurovic also mentioned the audio, indirectly and state that has proved to be an extremely bad master or owner of certain properties. One of the properties is that famous mimosa in Đakov, for which the former government there was in 2000-2003, in which you were the vice president of a decision to move all state institutions into that building is still the owner of that property, that building, the large building of the state. One time there was a tax administration, and since the decision of Racan's government was still not withdrawn, so on the move of all state institutions in the city of Djakov, here I insist you as minister to encourage this in the new government, since there is also an official request from the City of Đakov that this building, which was indeed representative, was the former building of former PIC Djakovo, which had long been liquidated, would not have fallen further. Otherwise, the state pays for it and the communal fee and others. And also since a series of new laws are being passed here I remind you of that basic requirement for decentralisation, the requirement to change this tax relationship between units of local self-government...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15870	Comrade Vinkovic, abuse the replica institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15871	I'm finishing up, so it's in your best interests. ... Are you the mayor too? [[The speakers speak in the same voice, he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15872	Finish it, end it... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15873	To simply go towards decentralisation, to change this really bad relationship where almost 97% of tax revenues are now going to the state, and only 3% towards local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15874	Thank you. The next replica of Martina Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15875	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I don't really have as much to replicate as I keep your thought. Namely, when you talk about institutions and about what will happen to those who do not pay, and it is mostly about some parts of the state system and the state apparatus. So exactly what you're saying, so it's going to go to the institution's recovery, it's actually an essential question. A law on the recovery of institutions can be passed, but it will not solve what is fundamental, and this is the possibility and ability of these institutions to act within and work and perform their functions within their allocations. First of all, I think of those in the health sector. Therefore, what you have said also points to the necessity of opening up issues related to reform on the dissipative side, along with reforms that will improve the organisational, manageable functioning of these institutions and allow them to then act within their budgets. We're here, for example. Last week they had a discussion on the Croatian Health Development Strategy, but such issues were not discussed in the strategy. I understand that these issues are unfortunately not fully and fully within the scope of the activities and activities of the finance minister and the finance ministry. But what you said in your address also shows that for a permanent, stable recovery is necessary measures and packages of law from other resolutions, not just from the Ministry of Finance's portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15876	Thank you. Next line, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15877	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15878	Turn on the microphone, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15879	Excuse me. In your presentation, you mentioned the possibility that this Parliament could discuss very quickly the Proposal for a Law on the Restitution of Institutions, and I read it if I understood you well, given the inability to conduct the pre-departure settlement procedure under this law when the debtor of the Republic of Croatia, funds, institutions. For example, the hospital, the mayor's responsibility in this regard, the minister's responsibility, the possibility of this House controlling the clear work of ministers in particular in the area where institutions or public enterprises in their portfolio are debtors. So I just wanted to say that there are already plenty of tools that determine the responsibility of the unit leaders of local self-government who determine the responsibility of ministers and other responsible persons in executive bodies. There is a Financial Responsibility Act which clearly provides for the responsibility of those leaders in cases where they are able to carry out the obligations that they have, because they were obliged to do so clearly through the draft budget, foresee and plan within a sufficient framework in order to be able to finance everything that the bodies, institutions, public undertakings in their portfolio must pay. Therefore, it seems to me that this law, the Fiscal Responsibility Act has enough mechanisms to sanction both mayors and mayors and mayors, and certainly clear then also members of the Government or the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15880	This is what we've used up the list of people who've signed up for replicas. Individual debate of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with the Deputy and Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Since we are in this legislative proposal at the outset of his own writing that he regulates four points. That's how I'm going to contemplate my argument, so I'm going to comment on those points in a row. The first two points are financial operations and deadlines for meeting the monetary obligations and the legal consequences of the delay with the fulfilment of the monetary obligations. I certainly believe that it is necessary to welcome the adoption of the legal deadlines for payment. However, so far it has also been prescribed by law until when the debtor is required to fulfil the trustee’s monetary obligation, but as if it did not exist because he was rarely respected. Why is that? Well, that's what one very simple answer is for us. Until my debtor pays me, I can't pay my believer. It only takes a few of those in the chain, and here's the mess, and since that mess is possible, who let it happen. It is possible because payment orders, currencies, i.e. Obligations, payment dates none of the competent institutions has ever controlled. I know people who have long-term accounting and accounting practices that have gone beyond a lot of controls, but no control has ever controlled compliance with payment deadlines. That leads us to wonder why we even had currency in our accounts when absolutely no one respected them. This is very important for many entrepreneurs, since it dictates expenditure planning, i.e. business planning, according to the means available to them. So if that deadline is 30 days I'd like that money, so I'm counting on it in 30 days or 60 days, but I'm not counting with it after eight days, and I don't get it after two years. Because of the absence of surveillance, certain people appear, I use that category on purpose. I don't want to call them entrepreneurs so that I don't defile the reputation of honest entrepreneurs who are using this situation, who are in charge, who are not paying the creditors, the workers of the state. The money is drawn in different ways for private purposes, the company is left in a blockade, workers on the street, and all without consequences. That's why I think we should welcome the adoption of dues. In this case it is 30 and 60 days, but it should also be made clear to all people who participate in the economic processes that laws are being passed to respect them and not to be violated or even worse ignored. The competent institutions should therefore control compliance with the law and establish a payment order. Many speak of this law as repressive, but I would not take control as a repression, but as a simple fact that entrepreneurs must understand that the law obliges them, namely that first controls are not repressive, but that they are a consulting character and that they are in fact telling entrepreneurs about possible failures. Multiple breakthroughs. What about him? Excellent, very well-conceived and legally. However, let me say, as a man who spent a part of his career in the economy, I do, in fact, express my doubt that in practice it will still be feasible. We know that many small and medium-sized enterprises do not have their own financial services but do their own accounting. So, bookkeeping's doing bookkeeping services, so it's all pretty tapy and late. When documents are delivered, deadlines have already passed, and they will be expected to report commitments. In addition, and we are talking about the fact that in the Croatian economy there are also those who are unprofessional, and while they have something that works, something that is foreseen by law goes on for a long time. I believe that many serious entrepreneurs will have multiple breakthroughs to facilitate business and will welcome such a provision. Multiple breakthroughs have been done so far but individually and have taken a lot of time and effort. It took hours and days on the phones and finding a circle to close demand and obligations, not to say how much money was spent. Because we all know that in business time is money, phone etc. Now that this will be carried out by the Financial Agency, entrepreneurs will be far easier and faster to get results. I believe the effect will be, but that must be everyone involved. Therefore, both entrepreneurs and the Financial Agency and the control mechanisms of the system. If they work again and obey the law, only some results will, of course, fall behind. What encourages me is that this institute already existed in Croatia. It was carried out by the SDK at the end of the former state. People with experience, people who were then in entrepreneurship say there was a shift, but as the war came, the war situation, the creation of a new state also created new economic opportunities and entrepreneurs found simple new ways of closing obligations, and there were few who reported it to the ZAP then, and multiple breakthroughs spontaneously after a few years went out. In particular, I would refer to Article 19(3) of this Act, which states that breaking is prohibited for those whose account is in a blockade, i.e. those who have a ban on the availability of armed cash. So far, the practice has shown that even so, before they worked neatly, they used to make breakthroughs, and then they used to run the money, which they weren't allowed to do under the law. As they wanted and yet no one controlled it, and especially he didn't punish it. Therefore, I appeal to the authorities that they should control these processes and put an end to law enforcement. As I have already mentioned, I am not advocating repressive measures especially when adopting laws that need to regulate relations in the economy. For this reason, I suggest once again that the first control be an educational character, and that if someone has no hearing and respect for legal provisions, they should naturally be approached and punished. And a few more words about a pre-war deal. I would also like to welcome the adoption of the Pre-departure Deal Act because there were companies that went bankrupt, and perhaps that was not what it was for to be this very institute. He also has companies over which no bankruptcy has been launched, and for days, months and years in the blockade. Allow me to refer to Article 4 paragraph 10. The bankruptcy law which says and quotes: "If the company is unable to pay or the over-indebted administration running the company without delay, and no later than 21 days after the inability to pay or over-indebted propose the opening of the bankruptcy procedure." How is it possible, in addition to such a provision of the law, that we have so many blockades? I'm going back and I'm going over it again, for disrespecting the law. Who was responsible for that? No one. A long time ago some subjects had to be liquidated, cut off sick tissue to develop healthy. This is precisely the kind of cancer, and let me use a medical term, they have brought and brought others into trouble with indifference and decay. So I would once again welcome the adoption of this law that can in time remove malignant tumors that threaten the survival of the economy, and are very often treatable if observed in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15882	Thank you, too. Before I allow it, we have two replicas, I would like to read to you the invitation of board president Nancy Tyrelli, Committee on Gender Equality, on behalf of the board. "The Committee for Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament organises a thematic session to mark the National Day against Violence Against Women. The session will take place in the Croatian Parliament building at the Ivan Mažuranić Hall 84 today starting at 13:00." So after the replica, we'll stop working and continue at 15.00 hours. Well, this is also an invitation for everyone to come to this meeting. We have two replicas. Anna Lovrin first picked up. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15883	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we all agree, of course, that we have to do everything possible to shorten bankruptcy. Well, we're trying to speed up bankruptcy with this bill in some way. We can see that neither does what has already been provided for by the bankruptcy law nor what the IRS is doing, which is the meaning of which ex-lege and ex-offo have been treated by those companies that have no employees to remove them from the register and to resolve those debt records that will never actually be and can't be charged. And you say this law will introduce order. I'd say he's trying to put in order, but then his provisions should be sterilized to make it a real order. I will only talk here about Articles 11, 12, 13 and 14. where the deadlines for meeting are set, possible deadlines that can be agreed on to meet the provisions. Now, if these are ius cogens, so strictly set deadlines, there are some exceptions when they can be extended by contract, for example Article 12 says that a contract between an entrepreneur and a person of public law if the person of public law cannot be owed, must be 30 days. But he says an extremely long 60-day term can be agreed upon. If you do not say what is the exception and what is the exception, then that means that the exception will become a rule because there are no further conditions if it is not subject to these provisions on integrity. I can say that they will then be assessed whether they are harmful if they are contrary to conscience and honesty. But what is ius cogens, which is the provision of paragraph 5, and refers to the time limit of receipt of the case
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15884	It's time, co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15885	And then there can be no exception and no one can judge anything in terms of nothing but all the provisions that are contrary to the provisions of this law must be nullified.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15886	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hajdukovic, you spoke of establishing order and fulfilling obligations. I'm witnessing in one area, one segment of life where it's not like that, and it's in a farm that you're kind of reluctant to talk about in this High House, and when someone's mentioned, then I see it being viewed with some kind of different eyes. Namely, our farmer must therefore buy seed, must buy diesel of course at a very high price, higher than he can at all. Now, unfortunately, this drought requires cattlemen to buy him food at immensely high prices. And according to them, those obligations that have been made, therefore, and support, are mostly delayed or reduced. Here I am telling you that so far no milk support has been paid. And please nice, or they've been cut down, abolished, and the price of milk you know is very good and how the protests of the milkman ended. And that leads to that cancer you said. Agriculture and our village are in a terminal phase of the disease from which it cannot be recovered. So far, about 3,000 O.P.G.s have failed. Every day it collapses, the production of milk has fallen. So all of this leads to an irregular status of farmers and, of course, our village is in a very difficult situation and this does not contribute to order and improvement of the village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15888	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here are the exceptions, so I believe if both sides agree that the contract can also set a longer payment period, but then that deadline must be respected. Because trust me, an entrepreneur is extremely important to know the date when that money can be available and that that date is final. So, if it's 180 days, but then he knows he's got that money. As far as agriculture is concerned, dear colleague, I don't feel like discussing agriculture here. And I come from a farm area, I know there are a lot of problems, but I think you're asking where you're asking the wrong address with that cancer. I don't know who's created agricultural policy so far? Who gave great incentives, who made it easier for people to build small farms that we knew from the beginning would not be worth it? That's why I think you should ask the colleagues who sat on your side of the assembly and who led the farm resor for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15890	Thank you very much. With this as I have announced, we interrupt and invite you all to the hall of Ivan Mažuranić no. 84th on behalf of President Nancy Tyrelli. My colleagues and colleagues, 15 hours, we're back to work. In an individual debate, Franco Vidovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15892	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, thank you, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament. In front of us is the Law on Financial Business and Pre-departure settlement. The law regulates the financial operations of entrepreneurs, the deadlines for the fulfilment of monetary obligations, and the legal consequences of the delay with the fulfilment of monetary obligations, the mandatory multi-party changeover procedure, and the pre-departure settlement procedure. Clearly, the good part of these things is the novelty of Croatian economic life. In order for this law to be implemented, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also referred to the parliamentary procedure of amending the Act on the takeover of shareholders and the Credit Institutions Act. If we accept this bill, or package of laws, practically, which I don't doubt. Since October, pre-banked settlement procedures have been launched in 20,000 blocked insolvency companies. The settlement procedure will take place outside the court procedure, with many objections coming in the past months. A large part of them are both respected and embedded in the final draft of the law. The Croatian Employers' Association's comments were accepted that the administrations that handled the good economics' attention do not respond because of the company's liquidity. An enterprise in a state of insolvency shall not take those actions which would result in damage or bringing the credentials into an unequal position. The club considers that the sale of assets that do not serve the underlying activity should be excluded from that provision, as such sales may increase the liquidity of the company. A proposal of the FINA and the Union of Independent Trade Unions has been accepted that the proposal to open a pre-departure procedure includes, inter alia, a list of assets and rights of debtors entered in the relevant registers, and a statement that the conclusion of a pre-departure settlement will not affect workers' claims. The reasons for the adoption of such a law are an assessment of the current liquidity situation in the Republic of Croatia which is at least worrying. The minister said something about her this morning. According to the FINA on 30 April 2012, the total value of non-executed payment bases amounts to slightly over 43 billion kuna. And of the 72,400 blocked business entities in the long-term blockade, a total of 55,131 business entities were in place for 360 days. It is clear that long-term blockades of the accounts of business entities generate an internal non-performing debt in the country and create very negative consequences for the functioning of the entire economy. Thus, it is concluded that it is necessary to put an end to such practice. In my view, the main objective of this law is to enable entrepreneurs to be restructured in order to restore liquidity and insolvency. The other targets listed and there are 8, I mean in this explanation, and even the ones that we as politicians most often get caught for, and that's keeping jobs, are still more of a consequence of this first goal. I think so because I understand that without the preservation of an economic operator, the other objectives are basically just blank letters on paper. One of the reasons for the situation in the Croatian economy is the way a bankruptcy procedure has been conducted so far, i.e. the opportunities offered by the bankruptcy process itself. We have taken over the German theory, but our practice remains traditional, so unfortunately, very few bankruptcy plans are being implemented in Croatia. It is noted that at this point, 89 bankruptcy procedures last longer than 10 years, 166 procedures longer than 5 years, and 287 longer than 3 years. The problem of bankruptcy proceedings... not efficiency and irregularity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So before and after the bankruptcy proceedings. The practice so far is that after the entrepreneur becomes permanently incompetent to pay the commitments, it is triggered by a bankruptcy procedure which, when completed most often, results in the shutting down of the business entity. The fact is also that especially in long-term procedures, creditors fail to settle, debtors' assets are sold on a partial basis, and ultimately none of these bankruptcys are benefiting. A school example of such bad bankruptcy is a magazine, which was also mentioned this morning. The bankruptcy that's been going on here is over 10 years, 12 years accurate. The greatest believer is the Ministry of Finance. It's mostly deficit jobs filled with women's labour, and it's a common denominator that they can't collect their claims. The journal owns a plant for production and several business spaces in the very centre of Sibenik. The demand for the state is more than 60 million kuna, the debt to workers is 9 months' wages, and that is also the biggest problem of Revija right now. The problem is the sale of assets that unfortunately cannot be sold through a public tender, it has been tried four times, but must practically be split up. Clearly, the benefits of such bankruptcy are neither the state nor the local community nor the workers. Not only will no one in that chain of credentials rest, but the workers, both the state and the local community, will be lost in the long term. A state of clear taxes that could be charged, that such a company, this morning, provided information about 300 people who did not correspond to the truth and 200 employees were concerned, such as Revija has always had workers. Thus, such a company with 200 employees could pay a considerable amount of tax. The local community would have those jobs, and workers could provide food for themselves, their families and their earnings. If there were opportunities offered by this bill at the time that Revija went bankrupt today, maybe the story of Revija today would look quite different. Maybe she'd have some other colors, not the dreary gray ones. A number of companies in Croatia, and workers in these companies might have been given a second chance if this was the bill in the previous one. I therefore hope that this law and possibilities he offers will be of great help in the case of another major problem in the town of Sibenik and the county of Sibenik-Kninski, and this is about Autotransport Sibenik. The company that has been in difficulty for the last 5, 6 years, which employs around 190 workers, Autotransport has been a company that since 2004 is the majority owner of Bus Traffic Varazdin. The transaction that looked good in 2004 when it was bought by bus transport turned into 2 or 3 years into a nightmare for Autotransport workers. By the way, bus transport got into difficulties, went into bankruptcy. It is clear that the consequences have also been felt in companies with which the company was a majority owner. Since 2006, the Autotransport debt to the country has been growing, in 2009 it has amounted to €39 million, and the latest figure is that today's debt is €68 million. Most owners still hold tight in their hugs and practically the only option unfortunately, here's the minister also talked about this this morning, but this interferes with him and the legal obligation is bankruptcy. But going into bankruptcy under the existing laws without the possibility offered by this bill of entry of the state through a religious debt to the shares and owned by Autotransport would practically euthanasia and the disappearance of this moment. It would also cause immeasurable problems for all towns and municipalities in the Sibenik-Knin County and beyond. On the other hand, Autotransport is a concessionary in public urban transport and transport of primary and secondary children. That title provides them with a job. There is also a strategic partner who is interested in taking over Autotransport and retaining activity, and thus most workers. What's missing is exactly this law and the possibility of a believer helping the debtor himself and himself in bankruptcy. The restructuring of companies that have all the grounds for such a thing is therefore a secure market and a strategic partner can only benefit countries and local communities and workers. This bill of law is just opening up these possibilities. I mentioned this example because the final objectives of this bill are that the entrepreneur survives and continues with the activity and business after restructuring and without the burden of insolvency or over-indebtedness. This would keep jobs that generate income for workers and their families. Accordingly, the payment of taxes and other taxes which allow for the functioning of the local and central state. New developments in this law are important and an attempt to introduce order not only within the deadlines of execution and the consequences of non-execution of cash obligations but also of any further actions and measures that the entrepreneur should take after becoming incapacitated within the prescribed payment deadlines, and that these measures are fully defined together with the deadlines within which they are to be implemented. I do not need to mention that decisions on moves and deadlines and the way these decisions are going to be implemented are very important and what we have mostly fallen to so far. It is also important for the financial agency. The idea and objectives of the law are more than good. It just stays to see how the same one works in the bang. In the end, I believe this bill deserves the support of all MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15893	We have two replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15894	Dear fellow Vidovic, we do not need this contractual liaison if we have already said as a HDSSB club that we will support this law, so it will certainly pass in Parliament. But here is the view that the HDSSB's power should not be ignored, in any case, by these SDPs in Slavonia and Baranja. They feel very good and know it every day. But since the representatives of the ministry are also here, I want first of all to open another problem which is not only about the bankruptcy settlement, but also about the interests of the state, workers, local communities, because in the current bankruptcy procedures of the state and local self-government and most workers have been suspended in the entire bankruptcy process. It's not just this Sibenik show now, it would have been Djakova Đakovština if it hadn't been for those protests, etc. I simply believe that in one general bankruptcy law, rules should be laid down, therefore, by those payment orders. And I can't be quite sure anymore in the first row and so far there were banks that were giving suspicious loans, they had a claim based on tight interest, etc. in any case, they should be workers in the first place, then be local self-government and then the state and the competent ministry that did not succeed in everyday life primarily through the tax administration that first needed to initiate the bankruptcy procedure or open up the possibility of a bankruptcy settlement that this law would make possible but it was the state that had the ability to control whether a company would operate I would not say positively but first of all that it would not accumulate such debts and withdraw a whole army of companies into bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15895	Next replica Mladen Marelić. Here you go, buddy. Excuse me, we have a reply to the replica. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15896	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vinkovic, what to tell yours. I can say I agree to that in principle. But I think he's staying and he's in the government. Who made it possible for tax administrations to build up debt? Because there was a law before, and it's known how the law works. That's one thing. Secondly, we mentioned it and this morning I mean in the debate, the problem is also in our judiciary or trade courts. Here I am now having a situation down with the Autotransport I mentioned. The bankruptcy requested by the company management about 10 days ago, I say about, and it's scheduled for the 23.11., a company that has 190 workers, a company that has 68 million kunas of this moment of dubiosis to the state alone, we're not going to talk about suppliers, has two months to sort out its situation practically. And what happens in those two months? It can only go deeper. It's not just a question of government I think it's a matter of justice and that it's even a more crucial issue right now. And that's also the legacy that we have left of the former Parliament's calling, of the former government because they've passed such laws under which it's all... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15897	Thank you, too. Next replica Mladen Marelić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15898	... He's got 12 years of bankruptcy. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Unfortunately, I've had the shipyard in bankruptcy for 15 years. It's not a problem that it's just in bankruptcy that the company that started the shipbuilding because there was an empty walk in that shipbuilding, and we all know when you stop having it hard to have your clients on. But it came to the formation of another firm and we finally got a concession so I can start working again. But I'm asking you if it was normal for one bankruptcy manager to manage that property for 15 years, and nobody else could get anywhere near that company. I think surely this law, which is now proposed, is a law that will prevent such behaviour because these bankruptcy managers and individuals have acted arrogantly and for their own good, for 15 years have provided themselves with good income and have secured themselves a comfortable life. I think this law will make it impossible and it's good that this law goes into effect as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15899	Thank you. Next up for debate, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. It is good that enough time has been left between the first and second readings of this law to carry out a very extensive public debate of all interested people and that we have been significantly improved not only in the nomotechnical sense of the law but also in a qualitative sense we have received in the final proposal a law that, with even a small amount of progress through this debate in Parliament, we can say that we will come to a law that can be voted on by all clubs in the Croatian Parliament because it is in the interest that this big problem we face in economic terms is resolved. Personally, I think there are two basic reasons for passing a law like this. This is a high liquidity, which increasingly exceeds the insolvency of economic operators and the ineffectiveness of bankruptcy procedures that are thus conducted that mainly bankruptcy companies do not go out in one segment to continue to work but the bankruptcy usually ends in liquidation. I'm not going to talk here about what the situation is because we've been talking about it for many years and we've been saying that the problem of indifference is such that in this crisis period from 2008 to today, the blocked account amounts are more than doubled. So, the measures that have been taken so far have not been effective. I will not say that it is important that this law can resolve it if there is no will for both the religious and the debtors to resolve the problems of mutual debt and claim. And what are the consequences of such a situation in terms of insolvency and insolvency? They're obvious, the other day we were here talking about the latest statistics, about macroeconomic indicators. The consequences are a reduction in investment, a reduction in production, a drop in employment, an increase in operating costs because there is no orderly payment, interest payments are paid or loans must be taken to continue production because you cannot collect the claim from your creditor. So, the consequences are that they get caught in all the pores of life, less obligations are paid, less contributions to the state budget and local regional budgets. What are the causes? Well, we could bid here on a lot of things, I think they're well-detected, on the one hand, and we say inefficient judiciary. And why is the judiciary ineffective, because we bring inefficient regulations. So it's legal to regulate not only payment deadlines but also other spheres. Legislative activity is not only about passing laws but about controlling them as they are in practice and what effects they produce. As far as bankruptcy is concerned, we've also talked a lot about it. Through this debate and now a few data has been provided. Here's about 500 bankruptcys that last longer than 3 years 16% last longer than 10 years. We've got to worry about that already. Or 30% longer than 5 years, or 53% longer than 3 years, so between 3 and 5 years. The current Law on payment deadlines that took effect at the beginning of this year is not applicable because it only regulates payments in 30 days, or 60 days, and does not say what with the commitments that have come into effect, which is with those who have no chance of getting out and continuing their business, so they will have to go into the elimination of such, in liquidation, write off all such claims and rescue what is currently being given. And I wouldn't do much about what this law means because there's been a lot of debate about it. I'd like to say a few sentences about that part of the law that's new, which refers to a mandatory multiple breakthrough. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I also spoke of a colleague, Dalic, and I personally think that as the regulated deadlines of mandatory multiple breakthrough are not good and they can undo all the quality parts of this law. In fact, if we went to make a mandatory multiple breakthrough every 15 days specifically, as suggested here, so twice a month, we would practically freeze every payment. I'll say the experience of multiple breakthroughs, or then we called it the multilateral compensation of the '80s, which was one or two a year, so in the moments when it was estimated that they could give effect. In the '90s, we had continuous monthly multiple repaints that actually generated non-payments. The debtor used to justify himself every time, so I'm going to put my commitment into compensation. So we think, on behalf of the club and such an amendment, that minimum deadlines for mandatory multiple breakthroughs should not be shorter than the quarter. Why exactly three months as a minimum, because if they are spent three months a month, they are in a certain correlation with payment deadlines. It is assumed that, in the current conditions, business partners will negotiate maximum payment deadlines, so these 30 to 60-day indicative deadlines are likely to be agreed on by payment deadlines of 60 days. If you do every month compensation or every two months compensation they will wait that 61st day to enter their obligation in the compensation. However, if it is done every 90 days or perhaps even in longer spaces then he will practically come into the obligation, if he does not pay his obligation he will be obliged to make a pre-departure settlement. I think that such a regulation of mandatory multiple breakthrough would actually ensure that the rest of the law is applied as planned, but in some transitional period, while we have problems with liquidity in the payment system, we would also actually enable in one part that obligations can be regulated by a change. The application of this institute has been planned since the beginning of next year, so that all conditions and assumptions can be created that can be done through the Financial Agency. And probably after a few of these cycles, we'll have experience of what kind of effects it gives, so if it violates the integrity of this law and prevents normal functioning and payment, it can always be fixed. I think one such intervention would actually preserve all other provisions of the law, but leave the possibility of using compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15901	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Zoran Vinkovic, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15902	In any case, this law is a step forward but should not be seen as a separate whole from a whole set of laws that should be adopted here in this Croatian Parliament. But I will return and continue to that part of the local, that payment order where I believe that, above all, workers, local self-government and the state must be the first to be charged in any future bankruptcy, including in those who are now in the process because many units of local self-government, many mayors, city councils invested in a programme of economic development, gave favourable conditions and land and municipal infrastructure, that unfortunately many companies and unfortunately many companies located in these entrepreneurial areas can go into bankruptcy, in a bankruptcy settlement there is still no such protection mechanism that would first provide for workers, then local self-government, and then charge the state championship in the whole process. So far, it has been the banks and the great credentials who, among other things, signed up on real estate and thus made it impossible for all of this to happen. As long as this is not legally defined then, unfortunately, many laws will not be turned to workers, many laws will not be turned to local self-government or even in the state. Since here's my colleague, Jelesh, asked me before the break, I'm not going to replicate today, so she's going to have the opportunity to speak. Here's my contribution to the SDP to the former political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15903	Thank you. You mean your option? We have a response to the replica of my colleague Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15904	Comrade Vinkovic, I agree here with you how you say the problem is how to charge both local self-government and workers. But there aren't any priority billing orders here. Here you will go in a settlement whether to fully collect the claim in one part, in which part will be written off. But as an advantage to the worker, for the worker, it is an advantage that he will continue to work if it is estimated that the company has such a business programme and has a market product they will work, they will get paid because nothing else can be paid except wages, energy, raw materials, some material costs that are related to current production. And in the part where a settlement will be made, that is to say, a settlement in that part will be charged by 50%, by 40%, by 80% or 100%. There will be no priority lines, but they will all be charged at the same rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15905	Thank you. Next up for a debate, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, representative and representative. So here is the inequitability and non-payment that has indeed taken place in Croatia in such a way as to literally block any economic activity. It's not weird. The overall contraction effect is in fact the fact that it is non-equity, i.e. frozen, practically 90% monetary mass, 90% of the money available for monetary transactions. Inevidence also rejects foreign investors, and we are all aware that without investment there is no development and no exit from this economic situation. Foreign investors, continue to invest in Croatia, condition just by implementing measures to reduce payment delays, to boost the morale of payments as they say, especially payments in the public sector. Let me mention some numbers. Blocked accounts now have 74,000 business entities. Unsettled debts amount to 44 billion kuna. J blocked business entities have been blocked for more than a year. Each third entity has been blocked for more than five years. Those subjects are practically dead. The moment the owners accumulate unsettled debts on one company open another, they open third, fourth, fifth. Such practice confirms that 290,000 business entities are currently registered in Croatia. So right now, we have almost three hundred thousand business entities, but only less than half of them, or to be quite precise, only 46% of them are alive, so active, so it works. But it's not really the end of an infamous statistic. Each other does not have a single employee. So more than half of Croatia's business corps is made up of phantom business entities, and I think it's a frightening data. One of the pre-election promises of the current police government was to address the problem of non-payment by putting it as a priority. Let me remind you, the same problem was faced between 2000 and 2003. And I have to say, obviously, it's the fate of the SDP to get to management in the cycles of the state in an ever worse and worse state, and then we solved the problem successfully. We're going to do it this time, with it being said that right now the situation is more complex and difficult than 2000, 2003. The first step in cleaning up indifference was taken after the power was won already in the spring of this year. Entrepreneurs are allowed to regulate tax debts to the state through a 36-month programme. The second step is precisely this Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, and the third step will be the bankruptcy law that the minister has announced to us and which we will soon receive in the debate. So these three laws are complementary and make up a single legal platform to solve the problem of non-payment from the mildest forms to the most difficult ones, so to bankruptcy with liquidation. The Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement provide an opportunity for the debtor and the creditors to make voluntary arrangements. So, to settle before possible bankruptcy without the court's presence. And it'll speed up the whole process. The settlement is done by the Contracting Council, and the bankruptcy manager is only the commissioner of the Contracting Council. After this procedure, therefore after the settlement procedure, there are only two options: either the business entity is saved and continues to operate or goes into bankruptcy. With the importance of stressing that it will then not be a bankruptcy with the possibility of restructuring but will be the exclusive liquidation of the business entity. So this law represents a kind of turn towards the survival of debtors precisely because the bankruptcy procedures in Croatia ended in liquidation, so the death of the debtors. Now bankruptcy becomes something that only resorts to exceptional, only after all other options of recovery of the business subject have been exhausted. What I think represents a special quality in this legislative proposal is that believers are given an active role in deciding on the fate of their debtor. So far, the debtor's fate has been decided by the bankruptcy manager. The bankruptcy, as we know, was both long and exhausting, lasted up to ten years and over to end up with a zero billing rate. The only one who profited from that whole story was the bankruptcy manager. He was always winning, so almost all of them had a dozen or more bankruptcy procedures in a row. Now the whole procedure from settlement to bankruptcy will take a maximum of 4 months and will be far more effective. So, it won't be possible, it won't simply be able to dissipate the debtor's assets, thus ensuring a far higher level of chargeability. One who has passed the settlement procedure and the pre-flight procedure without a positive effect, so without successful financial restructuring, there will be no other choice until winding down. And to conclude, the intention of this law is to preserve as many jobs and as much property as possible. Unlike the negative experience of applying the current bankruptcy law, whose implementation generated only negative effects in the economy from this escalating unemployment to which we are witnessing a reduction in the value of the assets because we know that the assets of the debtor are being liquidated regularly below its real value and below the market price. The law also gives far greater security to workers because the application of this law will treat their claims as a priority. And it is also very important that the law significantly increases the level of responsibility and administration and the Supervisory Board of Commerce against the creditors. In fact, the law provides for a far stronger sanctioning of management and supervisory board members if, in a company that has a market perspective, the company that has a future before the bankruptcy started did not attempt to carry out the forced settlement procedure. They are threatened with fines from 20,000 to 150 thousand euros for each individual. It is also important to stress that this law first and foremost sets out a request for timely payment to the state because it is the fact that it is a major non-payment generator. And it is actually a great responsibility of this government to ensure that the state and state-owned enterprises regularly settle all their obligations. So the state should be first in that debt settlement chain. For this law we're discussing today we don't have a number of critics from the opposition, we've been listening to it in the morning, he says he's too sharp, more than repressive. Such discussions show not only the lack of understanding of regulations but also political irresponsibility, which is actually no newspaper for HDZ. The real question is, does the current situation allow us to get any easier?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15907	Thank you. Next up for debate, Nevenka Becic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15908	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have witnessed for many years that, or two decades and longer, in our economic system, there is unethical behaviour in relation to the relationship between creditors and debtors, and this has generated this phenomenon from year to year, which we have today, resulting in problems in the economy that are chainly withdrawing and those healthy economic operators who, together with those who do not fulfil their obligations, come into a situation to suffer enormous losses and simply threaten their business. This today's proposal of the Financial Business Act and the pre-fashion settlement is precisely an attempt by the motionary, therefore, to put an end to such phenomena. However, in this Financial Business Act there are elements that literally correspond to the regulations set out in the Company Act. It is stated in the Financial Business Act that, among other things, the administration is obliged in the event of an inadequate capital situation, which is the situation where the loss of the current year, together with the transferred losses, reaches half of the company's core capital, that the management is required, in such situations, to notify the situation in a spot within 8 days, to conclude that there has been a capital inadequacy and to propose to the Supervisory Board that it should carry out the same insight within the next 8 days, that the Supervisory Board must give its opinion on the circumstances of such a phenomenon. After which, without delay, the administration is obliged to inform the assembly and to propose measures based on which it will work to resolve the insolvency and insolvency of the company concerned. Why am I saying this? Well, it's precisely because the same thing is prescribed by article 251 of the existing Company Act. In this article, the law literally states that the administration is obliged if the basic financial statements are annual, monthly, quarterly, quarterly, are a negative financial result for the company in question to result in a negative result for the company in question, they are also obliged, without delay, to notify the assembly and on the basis of that notice, and in the event that the loss has reached half of the underlying capital of that company. And if the conditions laid down by the Banking Act have been met within 3 weeks, the bankruptcy of that company shall be initiated. Furthermore, under Article 251 of the existing Commercial Society Act, this same administration does not have the right to make payments except for those which are based on a conscientious economic operator. So the same thing as this Financial Business Act that we are discussing today. So I wonder, if we had good intentions and if we wanted to have healthy participants in a debt-religious relationship, why didn't we apply these regulations and the Law on Commercial Society and in practice. That we were and that in time the bankruptcy of those companies that generated was carried out, not only their indifference, but they dragged healthy legal persons into the abyss. Then today we wouldn't have a fallen economy and a simple situation that the healthy elements of this economy, healthy companies, come into a situation to fail because of those who pulled them into the abyss. So it's about good will, we should've and we didn't, but good. Now, under this Financial Business Act, we can do this, but this law has one advantage in relation to the Company Act, which is that it has set exactly the deadlines in which the debtor must and should make payment to the believer, which is 60 days, or 30 days. Unless it does, of course, access to a pre-fashion settlement. And that's positive from this bill, so those deadlines that, if the debtor doesn't respect them, they're going to start a pre-fashion procedure, or a settlement. However, in the case of this pre-demand settlement, the restructuring process should certainly be implemented. How? Well, just as the current Law on Commercial Society rules, and also this new Law on Pre-profit settlement. And that's to recapitalize a fallen company, how? Well, in money, in things like rights. From who? You see, there's a problem. Therefore, there is no mechanism which neither under the existing Commercial Society Act nor under this Financial Business Act or pre-demand settlement forced those who are obliged to carry out recapitalisation and to work on the fact that the company which is non-equity, which is insolvent axles on its feet and that it fulfils its obligations. Who are those who need to conduct the recapitalisation? Well, clearly, these are the owners, in a shareholder company, in a limited liability society of participants. But we have no developed consciousness, nor do we have such ethics as to be responsible and to approach the area responsibly. And that's why there's no mechanism here or we can install it, but that's why this law should be applied in practice and implemented because it has positive elements. I'm going to look back on the positive elements, here's a concrete pre-fashion deal. What impressed me, I will point out right away, and that is that the proposer is therefore the Government in this Act on Pre-demand settlement has brought elements where he explicitly says that if the debtor forgives him part of the debt or if he turns his demand believer into a core capital. Therefore, it shall recapitalise the debtors, that such an amount will be recognised to him, not in income but in closing the existing losses, and the remaining amount, if it remains, will be recorded in the capital reserves. I'm very glad that I saw it in this pre-determined settlement proposal, because it's on the trail of what I was putting out here the other day. That the state must be a partner to entrepreneurs. He can't and can't be in an entrepreneur, in a businessman, looking at a criminal in a legal person, because if a society has fallen, he needs to be given a hand and helped not to fail in a break-in but to rest on his feet. And I'm very happy about that article where we know that if anyone forgives someone, it's their income. Of course, revenue generates the basis from which it is calculated and paid the income tax. So the state here with such a positioning of such possible income frees the debtor, so the firm that needs help, the obligation to pay the income tax. And that's very good and I'm glad, and that's positive from this Pre-war settlement bill. And what's negative, and I'm going to say it, is that still looking at you as a person with a lot of experience that I've spent working in the economy, it's more than 34 years of my life, I've been actively working all day in the economy. I'm afraid this law will not in practice revive and that this law will only extend the sick companies' lives for another 120 days. That's what I'm afraid of, I wouldn't want to, and that's why I think that really, really, in the application of this law, all the participants should get the most involved and try to help our economy's participants to slow down wine from the sink towards a business-efficient sky. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15909	Thank you, too. We have one replica registered to your exhibition, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15910	Dear colleagues, I agree with all your positive impressions of the law, but I do not agree with the concerns about the implementation of this law because it has also been proven in the work of this government so far, the application of legislation and determination to implement these legal regulations, and especially in partnership with the economy that this government is prepared to take these burdens and really be a partner. And as far as the Trade Society Act is concerned, it's quite clear, and this has been said so far in the presentations, primarily by the minister, that because of the restructuring of the judiciary, the slowness of the work of bankruptcy managers. As a result, the government, or the Ministry of Finance, has assumed a great responsibility to go into this particular activity to address the problem and to help entrepreneurs resolve indifference.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15911	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15912	Thank you very much. So you see a colleague when I said that I doubted the results that would be achieved by applying this law, then I primarily had in mind that hardly any natural or legal person would want to enter their assets into a fallen society so that they would recapitalize, give up their claims for the purpose of capitalisation, and just for the very reason that there is no rare finding someone who would want to invest their capital in a company that is insolvent, which is mostly because of companies that have lost their business rating and there is a problem. And that is why I believe that this law and the Financial Business Act and the pre-departure settlement will get good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15913	Thank you, too. Next for the debate, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15914	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister of Finance with associate, colleague and colleague. Let me first of all think that it is a unanimous and public assessment to congratulate first of all the Ministry of Finance headed by Mr Linic for doing one job that is needed by Croatia, which apparently does not seem to be grateful and that they are doing everything to get Croatia out of the gap in which it is and which they pushed it into without their will to somehow try to get out of this break-in. Not paying attention to me as well as other politicians at least making sure they're popular. That's a lot of courage. But Croatia is in such a moment where we need such politicians. This bill raises many doubts and doubts as to whether it will be implemented. Let's go to something new. Although it was common in these political areas a long time ago that the debt-religious relationship was orderly. However, today we have come to such a state that debt to someone is no shame. There are no social convictions, non-payments and indifference are not only grey and that have led to the erosion of the economy in Croatia than is even more devastating and which we will have to fight and what battle is on the long term until the erosion of civil morality, not only business but also civil morality. Sometimes debt to someone was a grave shame and it seems at some point that only losers paid and those who properly settled their obligations in that one non-payment culture failed, the one who acted legally was doomed. In all of this, the government then regularly assisted such ones in silence or even actively. So the real question has come to this is that it's going to start over painful but very soon if you're successful in implementing what you're proposing today, it's going to be for everyone's benefit and everyone's going to support it. And those who rightly suspect it today may, but equally, great support will be of those who have recognized good things but who are not interested, who would gladly continue to hunt in the dim. So, today we ask another question, were the last holes in the play in Croatia? They have been so far, but they won't be any more, so they're workers, they're creditors, they're government, they're any believers. And that indifference is one serious monster... in the end no one else survives. A little while ago, my colleague Becic was talking about bankruptcy, and it's common knowledge. So where even the healthiest will soon be affected by this whirlwind and decay. The highest value here that has caused perhaps the most doubt in some, and that's a pre-war deal. And it is right that those who say that it may be for a start, and that may be the case even to extend the procedure so as not to start a bankruptcy settlement but to carry out regular bankruptcy. We need to track the history of peaceful dispute resolution that occurred in the 1970s in America, so not too soon. And that's a very instructive example. When America faced backlogs and at that time and economic boom for one America, it was expensive to build courts and they set out to settle disputes first and then civil disputes. At first, you see this beautiful curve for the first two, three years, the objects were still prolonged because the settlements people wanted weren't ready for, people weren't educated or ready for it. But in 5 years, the problem has been solved by 70%. Therefore, the pre-fashion settlement is something that is so valuable and in this economic aspect they spoke earlier on behalf of the club of colleagues, said counterpart Dragica Zgrebec just before. I will refer to these legal effects on these things that occur in a regular court procedure and which should be avoided. This is practically about a clean court settlement. A court settlement that's open to party disposition. The principle of party disposition to freely regulate their relations is the fundamental principle of the Law on a litigation procedure that applies to trade disputes as well. The ones who resisted the most and said that we have doubts about the courts. Yesterday they wanted something that was most important, and it was taken away from the man's property, even if it was of course based on the fact that otherwise and cannot, on the basis of a credible document, be it her or the verdict or any other document, they would be happy to give it to the public perpetrators. And here we know that most of the problems with the delay in proceedings and everyone said and everyone's right when they say how long these objects take and everyone's right when they tell us how much education we have from bankruptcy managers, that they're very little capable, and in the end they're very complicated things and that they're basically neither believers nor debtors are satisfied. However, it is also true that one resistor will not be able to do everything and therefore fight indifference, but there whenever there is indifference and which is why we have led to this situation there is corruption and crime of the most diverse species associated with various levels of government. And that fight begins not in the Ministry of Justice but in the Ministry of Finance, but also in the Ministry of Justice. And I'm pleading here for one narrow connection, especially in this sort of thing. Here's an example and I congratulate you on the selection of people you've set up in local areas, where people are really willing to work more than 12 to give, where they've found everything and everything, where they're going to clear up in tax administrations and you see, the first obstacle was really courts. In one case, when it was revealed what was going on and wanted to be charged, first of all the states for their claim, and he, with his company faster and better-opens bankruptcy and, behold, strange miracles, the first comes in turn, and another 30, 40 people who have even started bankruptcy last year are watching. And where are we? And we need to speak openly about the great progress of the judiciary, but still about those who were best recognised by the system and thanked for the services so far and to leave them to those who would do what was right and to the nature of the job. So I'm going to point out once again that a pre-departure settlement should be encouraged, publicly spoken, encouraged, given motive, and what was said here, just before the colleague said, that finally legal entities realize that the state does not want to subjugate them, that it does not want to skin them, but also that it looks at their partner, but on the other hand that neither are those who just want to fool the state but simply want to work, from working to live. Therefore, a bankruptcy settlement as a new one, I think, in a very short time, will achieve its results, that companies will work, that workers will continue to receive their wages and work and that soon business morality will be at such a level that such things will not be repeated. If the state really shows that she cares about it and didn't just write this, it's for you people, and especially business entities very quickly recognize and behave that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15915	Thank you. We have a reported replica, Nevenka Becic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15916	Dear colleague Antičević, I agree with you when you have expressed your position and opinion that you have stated that in your opinion, it will be a believer who does not want to immediately approach the conclusion of a pre-demand settlement and I fully agree and support your position and opinion because I am about the same as you do. And you see, in the course of your exposure, I remembered that in practice most of the creditors of all legal entities, and especially the debtors are just the financial institutions of the bank. And in all of this, we must respect the fact that these financial institutions have very well-insured their claims, mainly they have a distinct right on the property of debtors who are multiplely greater than their demand, whether they have a mortgage on real estate or a registered and registered fiduciary. Since, in most cases, they have the right to decide at any time, they can initiate the procedure of enforcement, so I wonder if they will at all be of interest to access the signing of a pre-accession settlement, and if we take into account the level of their demand, the height of their demand in practice is greater than the one created by the debtor-religious relationship, resulting from the sale of goods, goods or services performed. So these procedures in many ways will depend again on the behaviour of banks that will have this leading word and leading role, and I fear that they and you and we will both because the goal is equal, that our economy will recover, that legal persons, companies will stand on their feet, that jobs will be opened and that an avalanche of investment projects will be launched. And that is why it is necessary to work on the fact that financial institutions somehow agree to be one of the participants in implementing this very good bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15917	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15918	I thank you colleagues for this replica because I wanted to say it, and I just missed it. And you hit the right thing, as long as the banks have the possibility of fiduciarys and as long as we don't end fiduciarys, and we were abolished in 2003, I think it's our duty to do it again, many countries in Europe don't have fiduciary ones. Mortgage is a sufficient form of collateral, but fiduciary where you remain only due for one small amount, and you get an asset of enormous value, regardless of the state of property and their prices on the market. But no matter what this law does, I completely agree with you, get the results we expect. So I expect the government to end the banks of fiduciaries, and there's nothing to force them to do or pray for, because everyone acts the way they can behave, and we all act the way they behave. And why they act like that, because they can behave like that, and the government has all the operationals to prevent them from going to meet the citizens and that banks are sitting in the normal frameworks of our law, above all the laws on mandatory relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15919	Thank you, too. Next up for debate Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. All of us here have witnessed that so far the practice and the positive regulations of the debtor did not give the debtor the opportunity to be restructured in due time, of course with the agreement of the credentials and before the bankruptcy proceedings were launched. We are witnessing the long-standing negative practice of applying the bankruptcy law. I am convinced that by changing the existing and introducing new solutions, this negative practice will change, and especially in light of the announcement of changes to the bankruptcy law. The provisions under which the companies go into bankruptcy after all the recovery options of the entity are exhausted are certainly the objective to achieve in order to force the debtors' initiatives without distortion and termination of business to make the credentials within a reasonable period of time to make key decisions on the fate of the debtor. Available data that 89 bankruptcy proceedings in the Republic of Croatia last for more than 10 years, 166 longer than 5 years, and 287 longer than 3 years are startling and point to all the agony of all actors and debtors and creditors and workers. Should this be added to the fact that the current practice of bankruptcy procedures generally ended with the liquidation of debtors further enhances the image of all kinds of agony. What we often witness is that for years workers have actually been waiting for their company to be liquidated. Among the 89 bankruptcy proceedings in the Republic of Croatia for more than 10 years is one large-scale firm that I absolutely must mention and which I believe would have had a completely different fate if it had the possibility of pre-fashion settlement. "VELCOM" has been in bankruptcy since 2000, for 12 years. All that was being prepared for him to finally be liquidated with all the elements I dare say crime and committing crimes to the day of today without any sanctions the whole debate about it would probably not satisfy 10 minutes as much as I have at my disposal. But I will therefore let me tell me only certain steps in the liquidation of "VELCOM" in bankruptcy which was, at the time, the best municipal firm in the wider areas will show that it is likely, not likely, but I was sure in many cases of bankruptcy in the Republic of Croatia. What are the consequences, and what has been happening since that year 2000? The city of Velika Gorica was one of the believers but what happened to him infamously was that they were still in '95. In that year, authorities in the city of Zagreb put the municipal structure of the town of Velika Gorica into the core capital of the municipal company. The moment "VELCOM" went bankrupt, there was a great struggle to obtain municipal infrastructure to the city. This happened only in 2010 after a ruling in the Commercial Court established the property of the town of Velika Gorica. All the time it took for the entire company to degrade itself in such a way that what was the biggest profit, which was conditionally said to be a seine, or in any case the exploitation field of mineral Chica raw materials on leased, I will have to mention the names because I am sorry that so far the judiciary has not given its word to the whole epilogue, has leased Željko Žužić and put in the lease contract the right to buy first. And then in the manner of many bankruptcys, the bankruptcy manager in 2005 as he did with 5, 6 other companies in bankruptcy starting with Savric, Finel, etc. concluded a sales contract with Željko Žužić and for the sale of "VELKO" in bankruptcy by misleading the public because in the publication he stated that Željko Žužić had the right to buy first in the entire company although he had the right to buy first only the so-called. Peasant. Although the Committee of Believers in which I was sitting at the time, I am telling you firsthand information was ordered by the bankruptcy manager before the transfer to the property to terminate the purchase contract that was concluded the following day by the bankruptcy manager of the transfer of all property to Željki Žužić, and imagine it all happening only one day before Željka Žužić highlighted the lease contract. After that, the town of Velika Gorica filed an action for the cancellation of the sale contract. The aforementioned story at the Trade Court, which takes years to get the case back to square one last year, and the current position in the city makes a decision to withdraw the suit. And what's going on? It is also the case that the judiciary did not give the liquidated company any epilogue in the event of the purchase that was carried out in a well-taste Croatian privatisation way. And now by withdrawing the lawsuit in that litigation, it practically puts Amen on what we would say about the crime that took place in 2005. And that's why I'm sure these provisions of the law, especially the part that predicts the resolution and attempt to bring society down before it goes into bankruptcy, will certainly stop these and similar cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15921	Thank you, too. And the closing word on behalf of the HNS club for 5 minutes, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here is after this long debate today on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, which we have already said to my colleague Baranovic and I absolutely support this law a few closing sentences about something that has not been spoken, and there have been a lot of speeches and examples even of problems why this law is needed. So foreign investment, competitiveness is something that has been going through here all these nine months and this government solves with instruments, measures and laws adapting to those needs of the economy primarily of course in Croatia, but also to foreign investors. This law brings about what is extremely important and crucial in this competitiveness, which is legal certainty, protection of creditors, trust in the rule of law. A foreign investor who invests under the Investment and Investment Encouraging Act and improving the investment environment is not only exempt from profit tax, not only has the possibility of obtaining additional funds and incentives from structural funds or the employment budget but he is sure when he finishes that investment by implementing this law that he will be truly safe on the market, that he will be able to work freely and in quality and most important to charge for his products and services he has invested in and for which he hired Croatian citizens and citizens. This is a law for Croatian employers, this is a law for Croatian employees who guarantee security that there will still be a priority in solving all these problems in companies that are more than 70,000 because let's not forget about employees in these materials it is clear that there are more than 70,000 companies that are in a blockade that could actually go bankrupt at this point, and I'm afraid without any redecorating, this law ensures all those who really have a chance that the state will give them the hand and the bank to give them a hand so that they can survive and advance, and that employees can have priorities and pay for what they have left behind, which is what is more important employment tomorrow and regular incomes in the future. This is a law on security, for the rule of law, for competitiveness, for real entry into the EU with laws, but most importantly a state that knows how to maintain justice, stability and be a partner to Croatian entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15923	Thank you, too. And in the name of the HDZ club, Martin Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15924	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we had a relatively long one, but I would say in certain segments and a fruitful debate on this issue that is undeniably important and which uncontests the functioning of the entire economy. Also, during today's debate, we also received some additional information from the Ministry of Finance as it sees an upgrade of the legal system particularly in the section relating to the bankruptcy law. We have therefore learned that there will also be some changes to the bankruptcy law which will remove some of the concerns that have arisen regarding the Final Proposal of the Financial Business Act. We welcome this and consider it good to strengthen exactly what many here have been talking about, which is legal certainty. However, as pointed out in the debate, the mandatory multilateral breakthrough of the HDZ Club is totally unacceptable in this law. In fact, the minister himself pointed out that in different versions of the law a mandatory multifaceted breakthrough appeared little, but did not appear. In the first reading in which the breakthrough was not we were actually very pleased that this idea had somehow disappeared from the law, but then we were equally negatively surprised when it came back and when the provisions for a multilateral breakthrough in this text appeared again. Therefore, the HDZ Club has submitted an amendment proposing that the whole of Chapter III, i.e. Articles 19 to 31, be deleted and thus fully removed any provision of a law contrary to its basic idea. And we accept this fundamental idea, understand and understand it as an idea that tries to reduce insolvency and reduce the irregularity of payment, or speed up and make an effective segment of bankruptcy proceedings. Therefore, the HDZ's view is that, in the event of the adoption of this amendment, the final draft law itself would be acceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15925	Thank you, too. We have one replica, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since I hadn't been there for a while, I would like to strengthen what my colleague Dalic said on behalf of the HDZ Club and very simply. If we're fighting for discipline, why in the law that we want to create discipline do we open up a space for indiscipline? Because if we say that the state in those multilateral compensations won't participate, if we leave it to the entrepreneurs and we put it in the law to be 30 days, then I don't see any reason for the papers to start burning. And you know that, remember the old bonds, when the bonds stopped being the means of payment insurance and became the means of payment that happened. So also multilateral compensations when you start working between three, four, five partners then you can think about what's going to happen and that's why the HDZ club, maybe even some in the business world will resent it, why do we propose this? We suggest this for the simple reason that we strengthen this law, that we really put it on some solid knees, and we said that we would support this law if the Proposer accepted this amendment. Because I know that the thinking of colleagues at the Ministry of Finance is on the trail of this, as my colleague Dalic and colleagues at the HDZ club think, but I would ask those others who are pressing their colleagues at the Ministry of Finance to give up on this and that this really law becomes what they want to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15927	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I can say that we are extremely pleased with today's debate, which is what the minister said this morning after all the clubs say and thank you again for your constructive debate. And you saw that this law has already passed in the second reading, let's say a lot of improvements compared to the first version. Some things have been broken about the Croatian Association of Employers and the Croatian Association of Banks and for you. And I think in this part of our consolidation of the economy, we really need one unity, because this isn't about this government, this government, this is about the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the government of all citizens and all these entrepreneurs. So in the consolidation of our economy, we actually need unity, because it's our joint job, and that's why it was extremely important for us, actually to get support in this key business restructuring law. This is what I really think is one of the most important laws, so that any reform could be further, so that we can encourage employment, so that we can stimulate economic growth, so that we can finally turn to some positive trends. And we believe that this law is in addition to what the minister has announced, that he will be in debate very soon. Part of the health care where we would actually try to round up that one whole of these problems that, unfortunately, are here and we're actually going to try to solve together. Regarding this part of the compensation, so, in the first part it was that there would be no second reading, actually between the FINA and the Croatian Employers' Association had come up with a proposal where they were, in fact, imagining in that, that she technically followed the FINA. So that debtor when he can't carry out his obligation, actually he's reporting FINA-I at that point. It means we have to try to monitor those payment deadlines. Which are entrepreneurs, that already by applying to the FINA where they will be able to report that they are already late, we actually keep one record. So it was more of a point of technical support, so tracking it, those things. After we heard today, if it was 90 days ago, it means like today's SDP amendment. In fact, he would already be in that delay, but we wanted to give more of that one technical support, not the possibility that it would be, that they would abuse and actually go into payment deadlines, rather than closing compensations. We're going to discuss this one more time inside the Ministry of Finance because now, let's say and it's kind of hard to throw out one particular head because all the other articles are tied up, they're tied to that one part. So I don't know, if we're going to accept it, we need to see the technical part. We were also on the part of the Croatian Employers' Association suggested that in this part, it would mean it to them. So we listened to them in that part. So let us see what can be done by tomorrow. So here we are, really, thanks for the debate. I think it was quality and actually this law, that we should actually get some first steps very quickly, actually that this part of the bankruptcy that actually hitched off one part of the economy, to try this way to consolidate the economy. I thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15929	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica of your exposure. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15930	Thank you very much. So I can certainly imagine that there are certain entrepreneurs in this system who see a certain advantage and see a certain opportunity to solve their individual problem. But we here are obliged to take care of the state of the total economy and the overall results that such practice could give. Mrs. Zgrebec, in her presentation, obviously with great experience of what happened in such procedures both at the time of the former state and at the beginning of 90, also pointed out that this would not be a good practice. And what I'm adding is that such a way of paying, opening such opportunities, suspends the foundations of the market economy. And I don't think we can do that in any way. So far, there have always been such suggestions, from time to time. It is clear that they appear by individual companies, but the government, as well as Parliament, must lead the situation on the overall economic effects and possible such a solution. So I think the simplest thing is to delete those articles. Nomotechnical law simply adapts, and they cannot remember now one of the examples where in one of the other articles they refer to articles 19 to 31. That head just stands on its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15931	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. You may, from the post of Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15932	All right, just for a little while. So it was not about individual entrepreneurs, it was about the Croatian Employers' Association, which is how much we know as an equal social partner. In that part, there were no individual employers. All proposals for improvement went through the Croatian Employers' Association. Which I consider to be a relevant partner in a conversation with the government and I believe that their wishes actually represent most employers through their leadership. That's it. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15933	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Today we are done with work, tomorrow we continue with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 161. Goodbye and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15934	Final draft law on financial operations and pre-bank settlement, second reading, P.Z. No. 138, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by Representative Zlatko Tušak, SDP Representatives' Club, Legislative Committee, Representative Drazen Djurović, HDZ Representatives' Club. I ask that the applicant's representative be made aware of the proposed amendments. First, we'll get to the bottom of Amendment 5. I think it's the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15935	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15936	You accept, thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the bill. The second is representative Zlatko Tušak. Please, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15937	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15938	Thank you very much. It's accepted, it becomes an integral part of the bill. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15939	The amendment is groundless since we accepted...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15940	In previous amendments, the matter has already been resolved. Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15941	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15942	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, amendment to Article 47
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15943	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-27-0.u15944	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm closing the debate... I'm closing the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead. Who's for the final bill? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 109 votes, the Financial Business Act and the pre-bank agreement were adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
