ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9601	Comrades and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work. Today we will discuss - Final draft law amending the Law on State Property Management, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 97. And then at 12:00, we'll do the vote. The proposer of this Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you have received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy and by the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy Ms Tamara Obradovic-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Indeed, a brief explanation, given that the draft Act amending the Law on State Property Management refers to one amendment and an article which, for the purpose of implementing the SO programme of organised stockholders, is necessary to prescribe this exemption in order to rightly equalise employees employed in commercial societies in the bulk or 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the acquisition of shares or shares in those societies, in such a way that, if they decide to do so, if they show interest in such a form of participation in the ownership structure, those shares, i.e. shares in those companies, can be committed, or transferred to banking or other financial institutions, if they have to reach for the acquisition of shares or shares to raise commercial loans in order to exercise this right. So for the purpose of equating this right, the Government proposes an amendment in question. I would also like to thank you for the discussions that have been held on the committees set out by the Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9603	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – the party of work will speak to the distinguished representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9604	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, fellow MPs. We had so far in practice the HDZ Act on Turning State Enterprises, and then we had the Privatisation Act, and one and the other were actually the basis for destroying those companies that have failed so far. Now we've got something new, now we've got a proposal for a Kukurik article that basically has the same function. This article will allow further tycunisation, as the EZO programme, as the proposaler here states, is something else entirely. EZO program is a famous Croatian term. I don't know why it's not called working stock as it is, but it would require a full labour stocking law. Why isn't it done like that? It's done with an amendment of an article. For this reason, the text proposal does not mention a worker or a worker’s stockholdership for a simple reason because it is not even written for workers. He was written for those who were just set up, for the administrations, for the directors who were placed on the party's key. The EZO programme predicts much more. He says what if a worker leaves the company what happens to the shares, in which way he can sell them to and to whom, that is, that he can only sell them inside the company. However, this Article does not define this and is not settled. The EZO program is otherwise a whole program and provides much more of what one article is impossible to do. It is mentioned in the proposal that, in the light of the fact that this will allow the employees to buy shares. What employees? Those workers who are already over-indebted. With this gas collection, electricity, the VAT increase will now be easier to spare one part of the money for it because they know what they're separating from. On the other hand we can definitely assume, and there are such examples, one of them is tied to the railroad so I know him well... di was used freely I can say pressure on workers if you want to keep your job then you will have to buy shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After a while, the company comes in normal people buying shares that they can through credit. After a while, the company gets into trouble, no matter why, their debtors don't pay them. People remain not only without a job but also sit on their property because they do not meet their credit obligations, or pay regular credit rates. What's the difference between this proposal now and that former conversion? There's no difference. On the other hand, there is also a lack of the whole proposal to make sense, a lack of a proposal to turn it state-owned, that is to change the owner. How does he plan to do that? It's not quite as simple as one article here is camouflaged, so now we're going to solve all of the state's problems, that is, all of the problems of the companies in which the state has property or is the majority owner. A demagogue approach is also cited that this will stimulate workers to be emotionally attached to their companies, that with such a performance they will have where and where a better quality approach towards work, they will feel like a part of themselves, but today they feel the company as part of themselves because they are failing both companies and workers. I think it's definitely just pure demagogy here. Obviously, another big investment plan has failed, and now, among other things, investment is planned to be collected in this way. But it's a hit on who again? The impact again on those who work there and who are going to lose their jobs and without the new tycoons they will lose their jobs. These newly-roasted tycoons will acquire property, they don't even have to continue their activity, they've acquired some real estate, they've acquired something, and if they have honest intentions, then why is it not in these 6 months and more and those proud years when you've been in opposition, which is why you haven't prepared a full proposal for the Labour Shareholdership Act. In that case, we would support this. I'm not against working stock to be clean, but working stock can't be solved by one article in the law. Workers' stockholdership is still too serious a project and I think it requires a full law to address all possible situations that would be considered. I would like to ask the motionary, given that this has become a common practice. What business has this article been written about? We're already used to the law being written here for certain cases. Well, we've already got the famous Komadina law, so we have the Law of Cemeteries. Is this maybe changing the law because of the Oilies as the media announces? And are we going to be left without all those companies that are partly state-owned but are still doing well because of the introduction of the law by which the Uljanik would privatise himself? This is exactly the basis for that. And in the end, it's already become evident, not now, it's become quite evident that this government loves all the laws of urgent procedure to work. And all these laws, by emergency procedure, raise a little bit of dust, too little for people and the public to react because there is already some new law that follows in an urgent procedure and does not go past or beyond, but contrary to Croatia's interests, contrary to the interests of Croatian citizens, and this is definitely another proof that you are not at all how you like to say the Social Democratic Government that you are just calling the Social Democratic Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9605	Thank you. The positions of the HDSSB club will be presented to us by distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9606	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. These amendments would at least allow employees of a company or workers to acquire shares or shares in those societies that could impose or transfer right over them, for example. For loan insurance, credit. This would make it so pathetic for workers to manage companies in Croatia and not manage boards, supervisory committees that we get through party similarities, not through expertise, directors, so it stands to preserve the value of the property and create additional value by rational management. So, workers can also work rationally, save their lives, but if in that administration, for example, the Supervisory Board. Here's this Oil Man sitting in his elementary school or like it was in Djakovština d.d. when not wanting to conflict the sexes were two young people in this case women who made decisions and had no reference for a post on the supervisory board. You all knew that thanks to the board of directors and supervisors, but thanks to the state itself, which had over 30% of the ownership stake in the ESO programme, it ended. The bankruptcy, liquidation and loss of 700 jobs. So these workers who would preserve the value of the assets would create that additional value by rational management. I must say that we were immediately against the urgency of the procedure because we believe that this urgency of the procedure is not necessary for the sake of the easier sale of shares owned by the Republic of Croatia, better budgeting and removing obstacles to investment because the urgency of the procedure at this time in this case, without the adoption of a single total register of companies in which a work stockholder's programme can be implemented at all, is not necessary. It is also necessary to pass a law, therefore the entire Labour Shareholdership Act, not only to amend one article of the Law on the Management of State Property or to amend and supplement the Law on State Property, which allows exactly what the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants me to say to sell to the entire Croatian public, but also to all Croatian workers. The HDSSB club also believes it is necessary to adopt a strategy for further privatisation of commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia because without it we will return back for 20 years and I will remind you that it is related to the conversion and privatisation that has been passed here in the Croatian Parliament in '92. year, that it did not mean the conversion and privatisation of then social property but meant, above all, the tycunisation of Croatia. Examples are from Prevlaka to Danube very visible today. One of the causes of this huge number of unemployed among others and the poor work of all Croatian governments so far, but also of conversion and privatisation. So today we have almost 350 thousand unemployed, 350 thousand unemployed, but also those who still work either in private companies or in transformed companies, in state-owned companies, in public services that were there on January 3rd, so I was one of them, hoping that there would really be one of those promised conversions and privatisations. Unfortunately, there has never been a revision of conversion and privatisation in those three years, not one who participated and who stole money from the pockets of Croatian workers, peasants and Croatian citizens never finished without being convicted but ended up in a court procedure at all. And that was why it was normal and expected that the Social Democratic Party of Croatia would lose the election in 2003. But this is where the Croatian Democratic Community comes in 2003, passed the Law on the Non-Aging of Crime in Conversion and Privatisation. According to this law, as far as I know and how many Croatian media and world media are monitoring, no one in the Republic of Croatia has yet, nor has it been initiated, nor has it been convicted of crime in conversion and privatisation. But let's go back to this working stock, to this one really selling fog to Croatian workers, back to the ESO program. So one of the best examples in the ESO programme is PIK Đakovo, which is what Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević would say about relics of relics, for those who do not understand and I will now speak in Croatian the remains of PIK Đakovo, Đakovština d.d. in which the Croatian State had over 30% of the ownership stake, workers 32%, who by such a political appointment of members of the Supervisory Board who were also to make decisions concerning the fate of the company and thanks to the administration went into liquidation because the bankruptcy had long ended. The former Croatian government, thanks to me and me because I was with these workers, paid the severance fees of €27.9 million, but only for the reason that they were almost majority owners of the company. But what's interesting here, these workers took part in a new scam after that privatisation, after those 20,000 German marks that, and that value, and perhaps far greater through their work experience, earned so that those 20,000 German marks not these converts, had to pay off. They were offered in the first recovery by the ESO State programme where they bought or paid 300,000 shares of 300 kuna, which is somewhere over 110 million kuna, where today is the case where the workers who were cheated, played by the administration, society, by the Supervisory Board, and I repeat it is similar to what I am about to do now, will be put in political likeness, not knowledge. So they want to pay off what they paid off in that company or society for the second time, and they created it themselves. So, those two young representatives of political parties, there was a case of HDZ here, and they didn't bathe corn in PIC Đakovo, nor did they line up tails, nor did they fix tractors and combines, nor did they create a new value, but they brought the company into liquidation and bankruptcy by hand with their hands so that it was from this PIC Đakovo who had 3300 employees since the conversion and privatisation in 1992, or '96. There's not a single employee left until a year ago. The state as a state, because this is not the only example that shows that this Law on State Property Management, which is now in force, is extremely bad and that it is urgently needed to be changed and that this Croatian Parliament, if Croatia wants to turn to working stockholders, must adopt a special labour stocking law. Everything that surrounds us shows that the country is the worst master right now. That's what Marx and Engels also wrote in their communist manifesto, Marx in capital, so here I invite you to renovate that material a little bit. You will see that the absolute state becomes the worst master and that it has been shown throughout history that the state is the worst master. Here we can talk about renting a business space where the state pays nearly 2 billion kunas for its ministries, while there is a building called Đakova "Mimose" here is the administrative building of that failed PIK Đakovo in which it does not want to invest 10 million kuna, to accommodate all state services in one way to enable all citizens to be in one place. So there's a series of apartments that are state-owned, that are falling apart. There's a series of companies that are falling apart. First of all, there's one such illogicalness that, for example, The Republic of Slovenia earns from renting governmental property, i.e. state ownership, not to think in Croatia that the Croatian state is 5th in Europe, but in contrast, for example. from Sweden and the Netherlands, which collects 2 to 4% of GDP from these state assets, Croatia only draws 0.2%. We still have one illogicality and one new privatisation and sales aimed at selling Croatia's insurance, to sell JANAF all to sell assets for current needs and to fill the budget. There are certainly also a number of settings, economic settings, so here I propose to the Government to withdraw this law from the emergency procedure because there is really no reason to crash into uncertainty, not to rush into a new con and Croatian workers and Croatian peasants and Croatian citizens because there is enough time to pass one quality law. Because, indeed, at this point, we cannot go with fire measures because already there is no, so as the Prime Minister would say, I read today's interview, that unless such measures are taken that Croatia, the alternative to Croatia, is therefore if all the measures that the Croatian government is carrying out are the alternative to Croatia's Greece. I already claim we're like Greece now. That spending has fallen a little by 7.3%, that playing the kuna course can only harm us, that the World Bank, as well as Greece, is asking for greater labour efficiency, that agriculture is not a developmental, that the government's plan as in Greece is a reduction in the rate of pay that the acceleration will not prevent a good tourist season and that we are already becoming and become a country like Greece. In the end, I will quote that everyone understands me, if we continue with these programmes and measures like this, that soon in Croatia will be sung again "Get up, you ground slaves, you hunger slaves" because no longer a worker, no peasant, no Croatian citizen will have anything to eat. That is why we will also be against the adoption of this law against an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9607	On this exhibit, we have one correction, two corrections of an incorrect quote. First, distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9608	Well, my colleague Vinkovic said that the state is the worst master that is incorrect. It is the Scandinavian model or example where the state has the largest portfolio in Europe that proves the opposite. The state is a bad master when it has bad governance, or bad government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9609	Second correction, distinguished representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9610	I would correct or actually add to Mr Vinkovic's incorrect claim that the supervisory and administrative committees are appointed exclusively by political likeness or party membership, and it requires excellence and knowledge. I would add that, in addition to excellence, competence and knowledge, it is necessary to observe these people through moral recognition and social sensitivity that these people enter the supervisory boards and boards of directors, I think it would be more correct then and that there would be more justice and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9611	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Petar Baranovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, a comment on these amendments to the Law on State Property Management. We had two previous speakers on the occasion to hear different thoughts, different forecasts, but what fascinated me, and I was well focused on what my colleagues say, it is that in 30 minutes their presentation neither one of them touched the scale of things, and the law was written in such a simple language that anyone who wants to read these several pages, namely, is only about changing one article, can understand what the proposer wanted to achieve by this amendment of the law. What is the essence of the amendment of this law is to enable workers who want to enter the labour market that in this situation where Croatian labour is in today when there is no own funds, when their private property is well-proposed mortgage that these same workers can acquire or invest shares in companies as a guarantee. So it is clear to anyone who understands the texts written in Croatian that this one change of one article is going in the direction of enabling workers who see their interest and their future in taking ownership of companies, companies in which they work, that they can do so. But no, we have the opportunity to listen to different forecasts and from point to point in this Croatian Assembly we witness in practice that every but absolutely every single thing that comes to the agenda is part of the conspiracy, part of the denial of rights, targetedly prepared law for someone. From my political experience, which is not too long, as an opponent, I had the opportunity to strongly oppose things that were wrong or that I thought were wrong. But I'm also saying that every government and every opposing party sometimes has things that are positive and that don't deserve to come across the bottom. One of those things is definitely this one. Looking at the new TV log last night, I was watching a report from a protest that was atypical. Because so far we have had the opportunity to monitor the protests of those companies that have been destroyed in privatisation, in malfeasance, in poor management. Often they were state-owned companies or companies in which the state had a significant share, but last night they came to protest the workers of a company still receiving salaries. And a truly honest picture stuck to my eye was a transparency in the hands of a worker who was looking for a stockholder. It is very likely that the interest of workers, the risk of many workers, is expressed. Today in a situation where their company is doing business correctly, to take over some of the ownership, but probably not part of these workers are able to give guarantees of classical form and banks, to mortgage. And it is quite certain that this very amendment of the law that allows those shares to be sufficient guarantees to obtain funds. Gives people a chance to make that difference. This is not the whole Labour Shareholdership Act, and I can agree with my colleagues that this issue remains open in Croatian politics. I can agree with colleagues that this is one of the topics in which Croatian politics should be considered, but it is definitely respected colleagues from the opposition, and also other colleagues, is a positive step in strengthening labour rights, perhaps small in your eyes. Practice and time will show how operational, but is a positive step in increasing the rights and opportunities of Croatian workers to assume fate in their own hands at least part. Otherwise, as regards the state property itself and the title of this law, I would comment that the title of this law is generally very pretentious since the state has mismanaged or has not managed its property at all. When you look at today in what state companies are predominantly state-owned or wholly state-owned. When you look at today's collapse of military property on the Adriatic, which is a huge resource, standing in a glimmer as we Dalmatians say it is, abandoned. Then it is clear that we must find it as a policy and as a society ways to improve the management of this property and how to bring this property to the point, how to put it to the benefit of Croatian citizens. In no way do any particular interests that it is very often liked to insinuate and place itself in public from the position of opposition. It's not the point of our job here today that we're talking about what the media would like to hear, it's that we're dealing with responsible, concrete things. I see my exposure raises white tiles, which means it's good. Anyway, I'm going to finish my esteemed colleagues. The measure of the matter of this law is giving workers a better chance and it is indisputable to anyone who wants to read this law. He's not a substitution for the entire Labour Shareholdership Act. But it is a small one, and we will see time and a medium step in the way of achieving greater rights of Croatian workers and on the path of better management of remains, the remains of the state property of the Republic of Croatia, which today stands abandoned in the climate, in a country that has neither a state property management strategy nor a long-term management plan of state property, and there is no even a settled register of state property. When you find the situation as it is, and when you take over management of such a state, then the task is not simple at all and of course leaves enough space for you to work, and it is up to it to choose whether this work will be of quality or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9613	Thank you, too. We have reported four corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9614	So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that we didn't get in as a colleague says in terms of things. We went in and the medias did. So this law is extremely bad and does not represent the development of working stock, but represents a new tycunisation of Croatia. It's the best example, but it's also the downfall of these companies. The best example is Đakovština d.d. which has just passed the ESOP programme and where exactly those who managed these companies have used the ownership of workers to destroy them. In the end, severance payments were paid, leaving nearly 110 million shares of that company, for which workers paid off and now have no rights because they entered the bankruptcy process. And as for the work of opposition and opposition, opposition and government, we have different opinions, and the best way to assess it is for citizens to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9615	The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9616	Like this, counterpart Baranovic said that the increase in labour rights is being dealt with by this amendment to the law. This is about increasing property rights, not labour rights. And then he said that this is giving more chances to the workers, here's a better chance of the chosen. I have no doubt in your personal opinion that it is something that is for the good of the workers. However, no partial solution has brought any good. Which is why, it's been six months, you say for yourself that there's no fixed list of assets, and now you know what's going to happen in no way. Which is why it didn't work out with the whole solution. There are examples in the world where there is a Labour Shareholdership Act. Partial solutions never do any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9617	The third correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zlatko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9618	Thank you. counterpart Baranovic said this law will be a strengthening of workers' rights. I must say that this law will not lead to any strengthening of workers' rights, but, in fact, the possibility of manipulation with workers will be opened. We know what kind of situation workers are in, and we know what kind of situation they're in if there's even a certain registration of the shares to be able to repay the loan. And when it comes to the protection of workers' rights, then the American law of the E.S.O.P., which speaks of working stock, has 17 laws that regulate that area with the other privileges of the law, and this law of ours is nothing left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9619	And last correction, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9620	Thank you very much. I am correcting Mr Baranovic's incorrect assumption that this law allows for greater opportunities for workers. What are the better chances of fellow Baranovic when in the second paragraph of this assessment, the situation reads: “One of the starting points of successful implementation of the labour market is that workers, with the help of the credit of banks or other institutions, acquire shares of companies. So, with the help of the bank's loan, and we know well what the banking sector looks like and how Croatian citizens have been robbed by the banking sector, so it's actually an opportunity for workers, actually an opportunity to get in trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9621	We're continuing the club debate. The HDZ Club's position will be explained by prominent representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9622	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community Club are above all opposed to the way, i.e. the urgent procedure under which this Law is adopted. The proposal for the adoption of the Emergency Procedure Act continues in the emergency procedure the bad practice of this calls on the Croatian Assembly to make what is the exception to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is the adoption of the Law in the emergency procedure actually settled as a rule. We will repeat this every time since the beginning of this session of 87 passed laws, only one has been adopted in the regular business procedure. I would say that it is not tragic, that the government says it will fill the state budget, that the reason for the urgency to fill the state budget as soon as possible and what is the priority of the Croatian government and plans to fill that budget with what? By selling state-owned companies or shares to workers in this economic situation who do not know whether they will work tomorrow, or whether they are working tomorrow if they are going to get paid and that this is the main source of charge of the state budget, and it has failed to fill up with the collection of what – energy, electricity, VAT growth, etc. So now it's going to be bought from the workers. I must say that the Croatian Democratic Community accepts, in principle, the idea of working stock exchanges only needs to be kept in mind where we are, in which the economic and economic situation is both state and worker. Let us not look at the models of some highly developed states in which it is developed, even if we want to develop it and encourage it, then we would have to pass a system law that would regulate this matter. This kind of partial change in the Laws on State Property Management in only one item, i.e. in two subparagraphs, to regulate ways in the ultimate privatisation of state companies is unserious. Without the privatisation strategy, without the privatisation programme, without knowing what shares will be offered for sale, who will make the decision. What we know today from the media we know about some capitalists like Croatia, the Croatian Post Bank. That's what we read, what we can guess but we know which hundreds of companies or parts of companies owned by states. Therefore, what would be serious if a privatisation programme had come before this Croatian Parliament and not to say a programme of state property management. As regards working stockholders that really involve certain financial assistance from a company in which workers are employed, the matter has been partially resolved with regard to the acquisition of shares by workers, it has been settled by the Commercial Society Act, and Article 234. The commercial company law states that all contracts to which a company, i.e. a company, gives a loan, an advance or insurance to acquire shares or shares of that same company, are harmful. But it introduces one exception where such a contract will be zero if those shares or shares are acquired by employees of that company. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Law on State Property Management, estimating that state-owned companies are still public property and public money, and further protection is needed by the fact that the Commercial Society Act was allowed was prohibited in relation to state-owned companies. The intensities of this Act as the Proposer presented the Deputy Minister on behalf of the Proposer is to equalise itself in the rights of workers of private companies and state-owned companies. If that is the case, we should not write amendments to the law in this form but should simply drop the prohibition from the second and third paragraphs of Article 35, which will return to the general application of the Company Act which will then apply to all companies unless some specific law is different. Therefore, it is not necessary to introduce this and such provision. However, the essential objection to these amendments which are that, in fact, it is primarily necessary to pay particular attention to the third or third subparagraph of Article 36, paragraph 3, which states that the funds may be used by a loan in which the demand of the borrower is secured by the stock or by the transfer of rights to a company whose shares or business shares are purchased. What is this way that allows this law? Somehow a small door and perhaps many have missed, so perhaps it is deliberate or not in the light of the proposal of this law that the Company Act does not restrict an employee to purchase shares and to secure that loan by supplying those shares or shares. But this is about something wider, so you can buy shares with a loan that will be provided not by those shares that are purchased in these business shares but by some other property of that company. In this way whether or not this will happen, I cannot prejudge, but it is certainly possible that the state property that we have here is obliged to protect, that the state property of this kind of legal business can, without any insurance, pass into the hands of the individual or into private hands. Therefore, it does not matter that this ZTD ban allows workers or ZTDs in private companies. The decision of an employer, a private employer, to lend to his workers a loan, advance or insurance like this and such that he will not provide it with anything is his will and his personal risk. But it is the duty of this Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect state property. What can happen this way? It may happen that one of the employees takes out a loan, buys shares, secures the company he works with, the state-owned company, that he does not pay off his assets, in the meantime, he sells the shares to a third party because he has no insurance that will not happen, sells the shares to a third party, and the bank sits on the property that is held for the loan. Where's our responsibility? How did we protect the state property? So I find that inadmissible. Therefore, I expected that at least if this prohibition is omitted, the mechanisms of provisions that would be put in place to prohibit the transfer of such shares to third parties and their sale during at least some period of time would be prohibited. Because, with all the will to equate workers in all companies, we can't put workers in a position in commercial societies owned by the state of Croatia who are public goods and public property in a more favourable position to claim for their loans state property without any insurance and no liability whatsoever, so that property which is not only what they often like to say from taxpayers but from all citizens, and also from those who unfortunately are not taxpayers because they have no income, pay, and they have no property to pay for. Here, therefore, first of all, we are opposed to the fact that such important laws as are available to state property are, above all, partly in an emergency procedure without a clear strategy without a clear privatisation programme under one I would say that it is almost flossula to buy that the state will purchase and fill the budget by buying shares of state-owned companies. Let's really turn around, look at the situation, see how many people these workers have. Of course, I'm saying that if you really think that those stocks are going to be bought by workers, not on behalf of someone else secretly. And I don't think that we can be put in a position to decide on such an important thing about such an important matter that we don't have a complete overview of these state-owned companies and the plans of the Croatian government which the shares and whose companies would offer to buy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9623	Thank you. Before we move to an individual debate, we will hear attitudes and SDP clubs and distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9624	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are discussing the law or amending and supplementing an article very short, but I see that the debate has been quite long so far. That means the subject is very interesting. So we're discussing the Property Management Act, in fact, we're actually discussing the privatisation of the one that was and those remains that still need to be done. So the remains of the remains left over from the privatisation that was mostly made in the previous years, especially in the 1990s. We are talking about how to enable employees who are now working in state-owned companies who are not yet privatised to come up with how to help them get to those shares. Of course, this change and the addition enables them to come to these stakes also by making those stakes bequeathed and getting a loan or a loan and thus repaying them or helping them, with the help of the company in which they work, also in a certain way, to help them reach these shares and to become co-owners at least in the smaller part of the company. I can see that there are some who have little understanding about it, and we forget about it or we don't want to remember that a good part of the privatisation that was carried out by the HDZ model in the 1990s that spent all of the HDZ governments in the 1990s, and when most of the privatisation was made, the good part was carried out by that model, only then the tycoons, managers, but now that's when it was supposed to be given to the employees, they're pretending to be a problem. And what that privatization of the 1990s looked like is what we all remember. She was part criminal, there was crime, we know, we read about it. But worse still, it was largely legal, based on law, but on laws that were bad, which were unfair, unfair and harmful. So there was also the biggest privatisation problem that was carried out that it was mostly legal, but it was unfair, it was unfair and it was harmful. And now that some of these things we want to do differently or we want to give, if we say if it was unfair, so if we want to give employees who have stayed to come under similar conditions to the share that the tycoons used to have because now that's the problem. They couldn't have done that by now. If she had been harmful, she wouldn't have to talk about it specifically. One of the biggest problems of the Croatian economy we are struggling with today, and these are the consequences of harmful privatisation because unfortunately the purpose of privatisation was not to strengthen the Croatian economy, to be as busy as possible, to make our companies as competitive as possible than often the goal was to get the individuals of the property, not to worry about what would happen with the activity, without worrying about what would happen to the employees. And when he got rid of that employee burden, then they sold out the property and put the money in their pocket. Often, this was the goal of privatisation. I, even those who, regardless of how they came to privatization, came to property and I don't mind those who continued their activities, kept people, hired new and strengthened companies, and even didn't mind them very much, brought some benefits. But unfortunately there were a lot of those who were doing exactly the opposite, so the workers fired, and the property sold out and put it in their pockets. And there is the problem of Croatian privatisation. That's what if we remember it well about 13, 14 years ago and the church talked to the so-called so-called church. Syntagma of sin structure. The sin of the structure has just come down to the fact that laws have been passed that have been unfair and unfair. The goal was, therefore, that a number of people, like or friends, or as 200 wealthy families were told to rule the Croatian economy, a good part of it was done and the others were poor. And when we look at the situation today in Croatia, social differences are far greater than they were before privatisation. We used to have a strong middle layer, and today we have a very small narrow layer of rich and huge numbers of poor Croatian citizens. If privatisation had been done differently today, we might not have so few employees, or a large number of unemployed, such a large number of pensioners. Before this model and this model of privatisation in Croatia worked about 2 million people, and today it works a million 350, so 750 thousand places less, well, and due to the poor privatisation process. However, as the people's saying it smells like head but it's being cleaned from tails, so when it should have been given to tycoons and similar and managers that this way by seducing shares of the company can go into their buying-out it didn't bother, but now when it's due to be given to workers who do it now is a problem. So that is why this proposal should be supported, this article that allows employees to come to the stake in state-owned companies in a easier and simpler way. He says, we just heard here from a representative of the HDZ Club that there is no privatisation strategy, so that's the problem this way, that this is just a partial solution, etc. When a HDZ representative says there's no privatisation strategy that's absurd. So they had a privatisation strategy and that privatisation strategy was exactly what it led to, that a good part of the Croatian economy had just been privatised in the way I was talking about earlier. So those who, through such privatisation models, have ruined the Croatian economy, which has made many people poorer, and a small part of the rich now say there is no strategy. So we saw what kind of strategy they had before that. So what was, was, was behind us, but let's see from these remains what was still unprivitised how to solve it, how to enable when it wasn't already enabled before, by the principle of working stocking most of the state property, former social property was privatized, that at least what was left to enable people who were interested in entering the ownership structure, to have their shares. The good part of these people were creating these gardens, so let's go, if they knew how to create it, let's give them a chance to know and manage it. So we need to stimulate working stock, where luck is that the whole privatisation model that was in the '90s went according to that model, it would be far better, it would be far better, and it would have had better economic effects, social, social, and each other. Unfortunately it's not, so when it's not then let's at least make it possible now that from what's left to incentivize this working stock, that the people who are in the companies, who created these companies, who are working in them, that we stimulate them under more favourable conditions that they can acquire shares and not only work in the company but also in some way as shareholders can participate in its management. So we will certainly achieve better economic effects, and make this society more just and socially sensitive, which so far has not been well done, at least when it comes to conversion and privatisation almost without them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9625	Thank you very much, Your Honor. 6 corrections of incorrect allegations have been reported to your presentation, so we'll do it in a row. The first to correct an incorrect allegation was registered by the respected representative Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9626	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would have corrected two incorrect allegations. The first incorrect assumption is that the privatisation was completed in the 1990s. Let's not forget that there was a privatisation later, let's say 2003. INAs, 25%+1 shares, etc., etc. It is also incorrect that the order of this law will not bring privatisation in such a way that it will be different and fairer than that of the '90s law, which has been so dissipated that it has devoted almost all its discussion to it, because even now several employees of one company will be able to buy nicely for someone else and shares according to the same model as before and everything will be the same, so I see no reason why it is doing a new law that is supposed to be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9627	Thank you, Your Honor. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9628	Thank you very much. It's obvious that fellow doctors think alike. So, it almost took my correction from word to word, but I have to say that the privatisation that was done in the '90s was continued in almost the same form, not almost but in the same form and then over time I don't want to go back to some time, but we know well behind that both HDZ and SDP have sold both to the INA and Croatian telecoms in almost equal terms. So you can put a sign of equality. And in 2000, Mr. Jelusic, you just won the election on the slogan and the statements that you will sanction criminal privatisation and conversion. You didn't do that. So even today, you're not doing it with this law because exactly as counterpart Rainer said, who's gonna buy the shares, on whose behalf? You don't know that. And you can buy free and you can sell free. Who? So there's nothing left, there's a point and three points left, you don't know. So this will come back into someone's private hands, and by the way so-called. "Worker's Shareholdership." Why don't you write in the text in the RD brackets, and I don't get it. Thank you very much. We also have a Croatian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9629	Thank you, Your Honor. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Jelusic said that these changes allow workers to reach the shares under the same conditions under which the tycoons came. Well, that's definitely not true. The tycoons came without any investment, and now you're asking the workers to invest what they don't have. Eighty-five thousand workers don't get paid and work, and now you ask them to invest in what? This has definitely proved to have this power, retaining the right of some exclusive in mind. And now this already turns out to be wanted and exclusive to honesty. So who can only admit it to who? The same colleague handed over to his HDZ colleagues that so far there was no strategy and what is this argument that we should not continue? So you don't have a list of public property, you don't have a list of state-owned companies that need to be converted this way, and now it's
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9631	Make up your mind about the correction, just make up your mind about the correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9632	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9633	Thank you, too. The motion to correct the incorrect allegations was also filed by the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic, so I ask him to present himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9634	Kola Jelusic said there is a Privatisation Strategy and as always in this mandate again, I argue there is no such thing as the Chairman of the Committee on Economy Igor Radinovic, who is a miracle member of the SDP, who claims in the report that a pre-condition of working participatoryism is necessary for the adoption of the Privatisation Strategy. So if so far the Privatisation Strategy has been HT, INA and if that is how we want to get rid of Croatia's insurance, JANAF, Croatian forests, Croatian countries and Croatian waters, then we really don't feel well. The second correction of the incorrect allegation is that this amendment, i.e. making one article, will enable workers to manage companies and stockholders and without this law, we have had a case of Đakovština where workers were robbed for 110 million kuna because they paid, the state is silent, and the management and supervisory board of those two smart ones from the supervisory board who raised 16, 20 thousand kunas for participation in the Supervisory Board and no one is responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9635	Thank you very much. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9636	Thank you very much. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9637	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would correct my colleague Jelusic's incorrect claim that in the 1990s the law was written for tycoons, and this one was written for workers. Laws are not written for individuals but written equally for all, but it is a matter of application. And we all agreed and there's a consensus about it that a significant part of the privatisation in the '90s was really bad, that it didn't go well. But the same thing happened at the beginning of last decade, remember Strok, remember Vrhnik, Viktor Lenco. So don't transfer all responsibility to HDZ. However, also this law that you are currently writing will not allow workers to buy shares because you have burdened workers with larger VAT, more expensive electricity, more expensive gas, and this time you give them opportunity to tycoons, but to the HNS, the SDPs, probably to those tycoons whose summer holidays are taking place or spend weekends. So let's not be hypocritical, let's not accuse others of what you're planning to do alone for the next three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9639	Thank you very much. And the next correction to an incorrect quote is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9640	A colleague of Jelusic's said that this bill introduces labour shareholders into state-owned companies. No, I don't. This will only allow management members, especially banks, to own everything that is so far unknown that will be privatised. In the most difficult social situation, you're talking about working stock as well as early '90s. Same conditions at the expense of the workers. You said there was also a Privatisation Strategy, give me a list of state-owned companies that this model will allow workers to reach shares. Just a list, don't give me the whole strategy, give me the list. ... Workers' stockholders are only useful for highly prosperous companies, only then do workers benefit from keeping those shares, and not under the coercion of social misery to sell bags to the left or right anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9641	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in 10.50 have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. At the same time, I would like to inform you that we have exhausted the list of representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament and we are moving on to an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes. The first for discussion was registered by the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9642	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, how good it is to say popo in politics, and Bobo Bob needs to be told right away that this proposal to amend the Law on State Property Management is actually another prank. With this law, we're back in the '90s. And this, whatever was going on in the 1990s in privatisation, we unanimously called it, which is what a colleague from HDZ previously admitted to being bad, we called it a robbery. Now we're trying to return some of the same principles to the little door. What the legislator asked him to propose amendments to the Law on State Property Management. I heard on the Committee on Economy, the equality that all workers have the opportunity to get to the stocks and manage societies. In what equality? But before I answer that question, three more questions need to be answered. Did the government have a privatisation strategy? No, it's been confirmed several times. And on the Committee on Economy we heard and there is a request that the government has no strategy and yet it is going to change. Does the government have a list of companies to offer workers for sale? There isn't. Does the government have a purpose for privatisation? Now, the government has the objective of privatizing to increase, it said, the company's activity, to take away workers who are naive money. And what societies? Most of the same, it is also said on the Committee on the lossful economy. That's actually the answer to the question of what was it that prompted the government to make workers equal and what are they equal in? Probably equal in misery. The sales portfolio mostly includes state-owned companies in poor shape. Therefore, workers are given the opportunity to be equal in the purchase of shares of these bad companies. I think I speak at least on behalf of some workers, thank you very much for such equality. In the 1990s, tycoons put companies into bankruptcy and left credit to many workers by throwing them out on the street, selling out valuable assets, and today they enjoy money. What happened to them? Nothing. And when the third government of January came to power, she said, "We will punish all this." Did they punish you? No, they say that's why we lost the election, but we'd still get a little justice. Today, the government, not the same but similar, on behalf of the state of the Nuts, is again the same similar model, so whoever fishes gets caught. And whoever gets caught gets hurt. How will workers influence, as the promoter claims to manage societies? Not at all. Will workers be more committed to companies whose shareholders are? He won't, he'll only be attached to the banks he'll lend credit to, because he'll have to be committed, because he'll have to cooperate with the banks. And the next question, which bank will lend to a worker who, as a guarantee of a loan back, gives shares to a bad company, is there any such bank? No, we know exactly how banks did business in this period. Banks that during the crisis, over a period of 4 years have made twice as much money as in 8 years of accumulation and growth. First of all, if you want to be as good to the workers as the proposer claims. So why didn't he write first and argue, passed the Labour Shareholdership Act? There are laws on labour stockholdering, so at least an effort has been made to rewrite it. What exactly is the stockholder's definition of what? Partial articles in some other laws. Did the government define which, in fact, problems have arisen so far in so-called. working stockholders? It's not. With which and whose money will the workers repay loans to the stock of the bad company? That doesn't seem to interest the promoter, he wants the money of the worker. It's not enough to glamour it with prices, so it turns out it's how to get the gold stockings out of the stockings that the workers left behind for the dark days. What you suggested has nothing to do with improving workers' rights. You said this was giving workers a chance, it's actually a chance to the banks, it's a chance to continue the radical privatisation. What right does the Government give to workers? It gives crumbs, bitter crumbs, which will give workers a stomachache again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9643	Thank you, Your Honor. At your participation in the debate, four replicas have been reported. Let's go in order, First Representative, Honored Representative Gordan Jandroković. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9644	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Vuksic, I think that at the beginning of our presentation, we have asked a key question, which is what are the real motives and the real reasons for amending this law? There are two reasons, two motives. First, it's a lack of strategy so let's come up with something that looks attractive and like offering workers an opportunity to participate in privatisation. Or another motive, which I personally believe is real, which is to enable people who are business related to SDP and HNS to acquire shares in some state-owned enterprises. Why would I think that? And look first at Vice President Cacic and the ways in which he designs models that would be socially useful, and in fact we would serve him to achieve his personal interests and personal wealth. We've seen the proposals about the facades, about the arrangements of the prisons, the arrangements of the schools, it's all spending, it's all a new borrowing. First, watch Vice President Cacic push himself into energy-related projects. Now this is one good opportunity, and let's come up with another law that will be another mechanism by which he could take advantage of opportunity and participate in privatisation. We don't say that by heart, remember the last time the government was led by the late Prime Minister of the then-Government Racan. Remember POS, remember the conflict of interest of the then minister. Excuse me, Mr. Dragovan, are you having any problems? I speak what is true, Mr. Cacic was then diagnosed in a conflict of interest, because the companies that were in his co-ownership or his wife signed contracts with the ministry he ran and it was contracts worth more than 300 million kuna. This was in this House and it was on the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests or the determination of conflicts of interest and it was confirmed. Remember Ferbos Mr. Ferenck, secretary of the HNS who was convicted of abuse of office. He worked intensively with his companies at the time in POS's programs. So it's a model that worked from 2000 to 2003. It's a model that will try to repeat now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9645	Thank you very much. Replicate response and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9646	Well, I sort of agree with your debate. However, the most tragic thing is that this proposal is presented in the true protection of workers. This is certainly not the protection of workers. This has nothing to do with stockholdering. This is a hoax again. However, this model, which is now represented by a colleague before the SDP, said it was only a very short article. Often, a comma is known to miswritten heads. We know from history. The model has been well studied by HDZ in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9647	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic has reported a replica to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9648	A respected colleague really does not have a privatisation strategy, Croatia has no privatisation goal. When I say Croatia, I think of Croatian citizens coming out, the goal should come out of this economic crisis. The government has a goal. The government has a goal of making a spin today, under the pretext that workers enter the ownership structure will allow individuals new wealth. On the other hand, Croatia does not have a register of companies that can go through working stock. After all, you were right about the Labour Shareholdership Act there really was, it wasn't hard to rewrite it, adopt all the experiences of both America and Western European countries. However, what already existed in Croatia, ESOP is now adding only one article and practically legalising a new scam against Croatian workers, peasants and Croatian citizens. The other day, I ask Prime Minister Milanovic, which means that there are enough kindergartens and we're going to work. I ask him where, when, how and why? I didn't get the answer at all. I read today in the paper that the green light is getting closer to the Ombla hydropower plant, which is why the environmental minister resigned. Is this also a law that is related to the Kukuriku coalition that will bring us, instead of that cowardice, like here and colleagues who have been in one hook for 8 years, and indeed whether Croatians will be singing that strof from Internacional “Get up, you slaves of the earth, you slaves who are starving!” Today, 350,000 unemployed Croats are hungry, almost a million pensioners hungry. This Croatian government is not interested at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9649	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9650	Thank you. Here you have just said the essence right at the end. The hungry workers will buy shares. Here's what this privatisation is all about. But you said the following. Croatia has no strategy and now you say but the government has a goal. Shouldn't the government be Croatian?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9651	Thank you very much. The next line was reported by a respected representative, Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9652	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vuksic, said that which bank will lend to workers for a bad business company. They'll give, they'll give credit to that fellow you don't have to worry about at all. Some of these companies don't want me to say and knowingly do bad business. Not all those who work in these companies, but those who run them. The bank will give credit not because the company is doing bad business but for the simple reason that the company has some real estate. We have such examples here in Zagreb of redistribution, fire and crucible, which has quite an attractive area of land that has also gone to working stock, which will now end up with who knows how. And that's one of the examples why banks give such loans and banks are connected with it, and it's not even true that they don't know. Now it's already known about some companies that will be privatized that way but doesn't know the general public, we don't know here but a certain circle of people guaranteed to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9653	Thank you, too. And the answer to your line, the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9654	Dear colleague Novak, I'll ask you later, you must have a list of these companies and you'll give me which will be privatized. And you opened my eyes, and you said that which bank would give credit to workers to buy shares of state-owned companies, that there were these banks because there was something behind it. I apologize, I said it was a prank. Then it looks like a sneaky prank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9655	Thank you, too. And finally, the replica of the respected representative, Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Vuksic. You said a series of criticisms of prognostic nature on this bill. It's certainly your right that I absolutely disagree with. However, what is truly fascinating today in this assembly is the courage of some MPs to speak on behalf of individual political options and parties after which they have been the same since '91. to this day systematically robbed, destroyed, devastated Croatia, its economy, brought down all the criteria of morality and honesty in this country, and the beginning of privatisation and robbery began in the era of the Homeland War as people left bones on the front. If the gentlemen think that Croatian citizens are so short-minded and so bad a memory, I assure them not to. In addition, the previous parliamentary elections showed what they think of one and another political option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9657	Thank you, too. And a response to your replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9658	Dear counterpart Baranovic, you do not need to agree with criticism, any criticism is welcome, but I hope that the promoter will also withdraw some lessons not from my criticism, but from all these criticisms that have been withdrawn. And I fully agree with you that the courage, the great courage of some colleagues here in the Parliament, is to say privatization with that they participated if not in the privatisation then they participated in this we said before the criminal act of inaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9659	Thank you, too. We are going to the next debate for 10 minutes and the honourable representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will introduce a few sentences about the experiences of the ENP and in Croatia, but also outside Croatia. In fact, partner stimulation of company workers is achieved by their direct ownership of the company, i.e. the company. World practice shows a number of labour stocking models and is used mostly in the US and Canada, as well as in some EU countries where the UK and France are preceded. The ENP model began to apply to the United States as early as '74. Last century, and today it includes over 10% of all employees. The ESOP plan or programme has been introduced to give workers a sense of participation in the management and development of their company and to encourage them to buy their shares. The employer implementing the ESOP programme shall raise a loan allowing its employees to purchase ordinary or converting preferential shares because it gives a fixed fixed fixed dividend, and they shall pay them out of future dividend incomes or contributions paid by the worker and usually shall pay such a payment up to five years. The ESOP in the United States is regulated in 17 regulations. So not just one regulation, but it's not exactly government property, as is the case with this amendment to the law. In particular, support is given to the lending of capital necessary for the functioning of the ESOP and, to that end, to further develop the company because such capital is cheaper than the usual banking conditions. Specific tax reliefs related to the sale of shares and principals from the ESOP have also been introduced, to the payment of dividends of so-purchased shares, as well as to members when bringing capital into the ECOP of the company's permanent capital and many other benefits. When the legal possibility of such stockholdering was introduced in 1974, 200 US companies entered such a programme. I found the latest data from 2000, 10,000 companies have shareholders per ESOP program with 11.5 million employees, and such capital or the value of those shares is $800 billion. So you might be a little surprised that in one such country that we're talking about has a significant deviation from some capitalist relationship in relation to, say, Europe that they are thus stimulating their workers to enter the company's stockholdership. And what advantages did they see in such companies? That there is more flexibility in rewarding, that there is an increase in productivity, that these are tax advantages that stimulate workers to buy such shares that it is a greater motivation of employees, a decrease in labour fluctuations, a long-term coordination of the interests of owners, management and workers, a reduction of pressure on wage growth, an easier defense than taking over because of property dispersion, and that may be for the owner and the greatest convenience. When we talk about Croatia, we, without law and without such a change of the Law on State Property Management, had certain types of ESOP programme. From 2001 to 2003, the Privatisation Fund thus sold up to 25% of the portfolio it had at the time, and workers could pay those shares up to five years in such a way that those shares were on the market, bought by the company in their portfolio and sold to workers. Who did such a program or an annual plan or privatisation programme? He worked at the Croatian Privatisation Fund, was accepted by the government and given consent here at the Croatian Parliament. ... has been established in this programme which companies will go to the ESOP programme that will be sold in a different way. But that there is also an ESOP programme that has already been implemented in privatised companies, and there is such experience in some companies in Croatia, but they have been implemented as minority parts. For example. Zagreb bank, Pliva, Atlantic navigation, Dalekovod, Tanker sailing. With this amendment of the law, we are in fact amending or supplementing Article 35 of the law prohibiting the use of the assets of a company in which the property is entered for the purchase of shares in all types, therefore, of the lending of guarantees and of all other types of use of the assets of the company concerned. And this amendment actually prescribes exceptions or cases where it can be done exceptionally only in cases where shares are acquired by employees in that or associated society. Since this is about societies and the part relating to the government portfolio, it is likely that a system of stockholders, or so on, should be better developed. ESOP programmes and special laws and perhaps tax reliefs using the experience of other countries that have done so more. Surely there are restrictions in this debate that in a wider circle this will be possible under such economic conditions. It is also about the quality of the companies that will go into such a programme or plan, the amount that the State has in such societies, or the percentage of the share in such societies, on the creditworthiness of these companies, and the motivation of workers to buy such shares. However, it should be tried, for those who will be interested in entering into the ownership of the company in which they work to enable them. The question arises where the plan is, what is to be done here, but we forget that we also have the Law on the Agency for the Management of State Property where it is regulated how the privatisation programme is produced and what is the procedure in this regard. And I did not report for replication and corrections, I would just like to say that we in the Croatian Parliament and society agreed that it was necessary to carry out a review of conversion and privatisation, that it was done that we received the final report in 2005, that we had discussed it here that we had reached certain conclusions and referred it to judicial authorities, and thus the task of the Croatian Parliament as regards the revision, conversion and privatisation ended because we act in a system where the legislative authority is one branch and the judicial authority of the other. I will, of course, accept these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9661	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You haven't responded for replicas, but you do have 10 colleagues and fellow MPs. Let's take it in a row. Replica was first reported by respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9662	The esteemed colleague presented a series of examples of good privatisation and implementation of working stock, but this series of examples are not examples from Croatia, so from the country in which we live. It also presented examples of labour stockholders from 2000 to 2003, which are related to the ESOP programme and even without amending this law, and I remind you here it is about amending the Law on State Property Management, not the Labour Shareholdership Act. However, one large majority of these companies do not exist today, has passed the total bankruptcy, liquidated and in these places no longer grows weeds, not to mention that in these companies it is no longer possible to open any job. So again, I claim that this is not any ESOP programme, no labour share law, because Croatia, I mean the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has no new privatisation strategy, there is no objective of this privatisation that will be in the interest of Croatian society, Croatian workers, Croatian peasants. There's no register of state property companies that can enter labour stock. After all, there is no labour stockholdership law, and this is obviously about a coalition agreement, and above all I would say to re-settling those who are in power. If it is our goal again, and I repeat, if our goal is privatisation, as we privatised to INA, HEP, and if we are to privatise state property in this way, then we are indeed in Croatia to have a long dark night and Greece, which is already on a long dark night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9663	Thank you very much. The next replica is a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9664	Thank you very much. Comrade Zgrebec, you were talking about world practice, mainly about practice in the United States, about the ESOP, there's no working stock, there's an ESOP with us is a working stock, so you talked about workers there after buying shares having tax breaks, having various other benefits. Is this built into this bill of ours, or do we have such tax benefits or benefits when we know that the government not only predicts tax relief but increases VAT from 23% to 25% and if it was 21 before the election. Furthermore, I see that the workers based on this legislative proposal have been set in motion, and here they are shaking with happiness, going out into the streets euphorically waving red flags, they will finally reach the shares of their companies, and here they are in Mark's square a little bit, so thrilled with this legal proposal. But you said well that there was no list of public assets that would be sold through stockholdership and you said well that no companies were established, so you agreed to part or most of the opposition when we were talking about that there was no strategy or list of assets, property registers or those companies that should go in this way in so-called. Your E.S.O.P., and my stockholdership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9665	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9666	Thank you. Well, here's a representative comparing the ESOP in the United States or Canada to working stockholders in the Republic of Croatia. I think it's completely incomparable. We can try to compare the Rules of Procedure of the American Congress with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the size of the US military with the size of either state or economic power. I think Croatia has absolutely nothing to compare itself to the United States. In this case, it is about working stockholders that no one wanted to buy, therefore no profit for workers can be made here. You also mentioned some companies, Pliva, Dalekovod, Tanker's sailing as examples of working stock. Add to them Crash, add to them... Rab and in each of these companies make serious analyses and you see also among these companies and dozens of others as much as they have given workers and how they profited from the ESOP program. None of these companies and dozens of other workers profited at all. But whoever profited, they profited from the administrations because the workers paid off those shares for five years, but they couldn't manage them because those shares were blocked. But that's why the administrations with these shares were able to manage, and in this way they actually established a full administration and a lot of ownership over those shareholders of certain individuals in those companies, without singled out any of their kunas for those shares. Eventually, they were bought at very low prices. In this case, the same thing will happen, the workers will pay, and then some will easily and easily come to those shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9667	Thank you, Your Honor. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Zlatka Tušak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9668	Thank you. A colleague, Zgrebec, spoke of good examples, especially the ESOP programme in America or of working stock in some other countries when it comes to certain benefits that owners and shareholders have. But she said one thing, it's more or less about private property, and this is about state property and here in this way without strategy, without certain legal solutions, we're playing with state property in this way. What's this practically about? This is about manipulation that workers can at some point threaten to go bankrupt if they don't take shares, they can be threatened to get fired if they don't take shares, they can be manipulated in a way that is in charge and regardless of the situation in which they are now in an economic situation where they barely survive the end-of-the-end. And that is the basic part of the problem that my colleague Zgrebec said about good examples, but we do not have these good examples and legal solutions in Croatia, and therefore it is clear that this law is a manipulation that will only benefit individuals from the sale of this state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9669	Thank you very much. We also have a reply to the replica of the respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9670	Very briefly, it is incorrect that there is no strategy and plan because the Agency for State Property Management brings annual plans established by the Government. If that is the situation, I would ask you to forward them to the Croatian Parliament as it has been done before. And as for whether workers will buy or not, each of them will be able to make that decision according to their purchase. I'm sure they won't buy any shares of losers and someone who'll go into liquidation tomorrow. It remains at the will of anyone involved in such a program.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9671	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I think all we've been saying since the beginning of this point so far is that my colleague Zgrebec basically resumed in that part by comparing this American model with our Croatian and what I've heard is that this American model is backed up with, or accompanied by 17 laws. That's exactly what we're talking about here today. We are changing here today a point where we want to introduce labour stockholdership at a small door to the Croatian economy. So one point, not with 17 points, not with 17 laws. And that's what bothers us today, all those who are against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9673	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative of Anna Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Zgrebec was really saying, I took up a line while you were still talking about American examples, and then you mentioned some Croatian ones, so on the good examples of working stockholdering in America, and then a few examples of that same stockholdership in Croatia. What is good, the public is doing, to note that during all this time, and you have been talking about working stockholders about private companies in America, all this time in accordance with the Law on Commercial Society and in Croatia, labour stockholdership was thus encouraged. Therefore, through the exemption from the prohibition of lending, advances and insurance for the purchase of shares if acquired by the workers of the company. But as we can see, we didn't have that kind of help for these stockholders, and it would be good to run one analysis in all of those companies that you mentioned how many other shares are owned by those workers who bought them back then. But what is important is the difference and the essential thing in relation to the law that is here before us and which is proposed to be the purchase of shares from state-owned enterprises and what is actually allowed by this proposal to acquire and buy shares by stocking up property, therefore not its shares but other assets of a state-owned company without any insurance. I believe that when these private companies loaned to their workers, they probably installed some mechanisms to secure themselves in the event of default, which is not done by this law and is not foreseen. And I therefore believe that we must protect the state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9675	Thank you very much. The next replica is a replica of a respected representative... Is it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't hear. I'm sorry, Your Honor, I didn't see. Here, you have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9676	Whether to enter, whether or not to enter the stockholder's office is decided by the owner. The state as owner decided it wanted to leave its property to the stockholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9677	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said herself that we don't have a list of companies to go into this process. What we don't have is a list of assets. The Croatian state failed in this short time of its existence, 20 and how many years, to do what every store does annually – a list of assets that we know what we have. Well, good. With this system, workers will be introduced into the ownership of some state-owned companies. The workers will pay the stock off dividends. Since it's bad companies, that's what it says in the explanation, the dividends won't be. So, the workers will pay off the wages that are now minimal, so they won't be able to do it most often. What's the final sequence of that? The workers won't pay the loan. On those shares, the bank will sit down as a guarantee. This move is aimed at the banking sector and large capital coming into ownership of Croatian companies now owned by the state and only because workers will not be able to support it in any way. On the one hand PB – Post office bank and Croatia will be sold for cash, and this will go one way but will end up in the same place. Workers will be forced to buy those shares in fear of a job. Even if no one directly blackmails them, they'll probably do it by counting, so if I buy those shares, they probably won't send me away. He's gonna drive them away! They'll be driven away because of the fluctuation of the labor force that's being propagated is being decided by the bosses. The bosses decide that the workforce will fluctuate, who gets fired who won't, not the fact that someone has 10 or 15 shares of their company. That doesn't mean anything. So the guarantee is given to the bank, it's given to a bad company, and the result is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9679	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go. You won't? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. A respected representative, Gordan Jandrokovic, applied for the replica. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So says colleague Zgrebec that this legal proposal is a motivation for working stock. That's only one part true because real motivation actually comes from financial opportunities. And the financial opportunities of workers today are weaker than they were a while ago. Look at the little data on the decline in GDP, the decline in industrial production, the decline in consumption, the greatest inflation back several years. So, the data doesn't add up. In addition, I do not believe that motivation for a worker is what Mr. Cacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, proposes because he has shown by his work so far that he does not care much about the workers but mainly about himself, his interests and the interests of his party colleagues. And so, speaking to you, I want to say what I heard from the mouth of some members of Cacic's party who challenge us to talk about your failures, about your mistakes, about your possible dishonest actions. Yes, at the time of our government there were mistakes, there were sins, and some individuals in the HDZ ranks are responding today, and we lost the election because of that. But you don't want to admit your mistakes and that's the difference between us and out. We admit when we make a mistake, you never want to and you won't admit your mistakes, and there were, remember the Supreme, remember the Stroke, remember the conflict of interest of Mr. Cacic, remember Ferencek. And you're also talking about it if you want to be principled. We, therefore, are aware of our failures, have an obligation, because we are chosen by Croatian citizens to talk about the future, to talk about your dishonest actions if they happen or about dishonest intentions, and this law, in our opinion, is just like that. He's intent to ensure your tycoons acquire state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9681	Thank you very much. We have an answer to your line, and the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9682	Do not talk about our unholy actions, but report our dishonest actions. Well, those who do wicked deeds will defend themselves in court.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9683	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9684	Here, it's exactly as Mr. Governor Rohatinski said, "Everything that can fall, everything has fallen, which can fall." Well, that's probably why it often rains in Croatia. My colleague Dragica Zgrebec used to talk about the trio of power, that we concluded here that this privatisation, that the conclusion in the Croatian Parliament was bad, that it was a robbery and that it was left to the judiciary. But a hundred times I've heard from this pay phone that it wasn't handled in the judicial power by law, because there was no political will. We know that political will decides a lot, even how courts will work, unfortunately. It was said that the question of my colleague Zgrebec was about foreign examples. Has the government done an analysis of what happened to labour stockholdering in Croatia, whether the government has done anything to address the negatives of so-called "the government". working stockholders in Croatia, which they don't actually have. Do you know how many shareholders there are today, workers from the 1990s, do they know how much stock they bought for, how much they sold for, and why they sold them to, and who they sold them to? If all this had been done, then this would have made sense. But that's why this doesn't make sense because nothing for this one, for these amendments of the law is prepared. And that's why it's ad hoc law, for ad hoc measures and for which it's some hidden intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9685	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. We are going with an individual debate and a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9686	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There are a lot of doubts about this law because there is a mention of working stock. And it doesn't surprise me at all because all the good things in Croatia unfortunately cause doubt, while those false and shameless are accepted without words. That shameless privatization, which has also been mentioned here, while it was killed in the trenches, no one here today is talking about, that is, winemakers and followers, they are being attacked today by working stockholders. And the truth is, it doesn't need to be hidden that we all have to have open eyes because the best measures can be misused, and the best measures can be abuse. And it's also true that maybe, here I'll tell you on the Zadar port example. This is the best example and best-placed stockholdership, where former workers got the shares of the port free of charge. Today, this port, or its owner, is unknown, i.e. it is only nominal and itself said that it in Slovenia, a Slovenian citizen has no idea whether or not she owns it, is mentioned there and the Maribor Archbishop. All in all today we don't know who owns the Zadar port, but I believe we'll find out soon enough. Therefore, all these measures, i.e. the way in which they are interpreted, in the assessment of the situation as one form of labour inclusion through ownership. I wouldn't even be here long because that's exactly how my colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, showed it. However, what Croatia is just following and what will certainly come after the parliamentary elections in Europe in 2014 is working co-decision, regardless of ownership. Today it is watched exactly how capitalism transforms through working participation through, in making decisions. So first of all we need here, I think we are so mature, so let's see that we are not turning back what was, but to see what could be fixed, and Croatia has a very good experience here to advance such a single legislation that would allow it to just prevent this crisis. Because production is a social one, and it is regrettable that we are bound by measures from Europe because it has been imposed on us by conservative governments, which so far are in the majority. I believe that there will be no, and that has produced this crisis. Therefore, the acquisition of unlimited and private, and the process of production is social. And what do they impose? The risk is social, he socializes, he's social. These are the basic injustices we will take care of and count on. And in order for that to happen, we here have to do some of the preparations first of all. Human resources, please, what are resources? It's material, and wherever there's material, there's waste. We're gonna make people think people are junk? No, man and his work are immutable to that person. Although someone gives capital he gives himself. He has the right to decide and has the right to do so in view of his work, not only to decide in this social process but also to be rewarded so that he can live easily from his work and his family. Therefore, we must change the discourse that man is not a human resource, but is a human, but is a person, and equally similar to being valorized by his work. I think here, I'll figure it out. It's something that follows us next year, and I believe we're all unique in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9687	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have two corrections of the incorrect quote and four replicas reported. We're going in order to correct the incorrect allegations and the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9688	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect that the workers' stockholdership is being challenged on this side, and your colleagues may have been flying from Strasbourg to Zagreb, so you didn't notice it, but yesterday, the RIZ workers actually had a protest and they called the government of Zoran Milanovic that they didn't want to conduct the ENOP just for their company, but rather that they wanted to put pressure on them. Apparently, union representatives also called in the Audi and pressured him to approve the government of Zoran Milanovic's decisions to actually go towards the company's bankruptcy, and then some tycoons took over the property. So here's what's been published in the paper. In May, the "Evening List" wrote about it. Yesterday there were protests, and here are colleagues of Zgrebec and so be the part of this correction of the incorrect quote. The report also went to the DORH as far as I'm aware.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9689	Thank you, too. You have declared a correction in the debate of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, not the other. Stick to the Rules of Procedure. The next correction is the correction of the respected representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect for counterpart Anticevic to impose something on Croatia by conservative forces from the European Parliament and that this will soon change and that they have actually caused the crisis. So when you look at what's going on in Europe, you just see the inability of the left social structures to resist the crisis and see their fall. Look at Spain what happened in Spain. Look at Hungary, look at all the freshest examples and exactly the debate that is currently in Brussels and Strasbourg is clearly showing that there is no responsibility among the left parties and that the crisis will only deepen. Those responsible are just conservative... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9691	They call this amendment a replica in Europe, and we'll call it here. Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas, the esteemed representative of Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9692	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, this is how a colleague said that she was suspicious of bringing up working stock. Well, there's no doubt about the mention of working stock, and there's no question about it. The doubt is that there is no legal framework, no full legal solution has been offered. As far as I can remember, you're a lawyer by profession, you know very well that it just allows a lot of malfeasance as soon as you go with partial solutions, as soon as you don't go with some whole solutions, and why you don't go, that creates suspicion. You mentioned working co-decision in Europe regardless of property. So be an avant-garde in Croatia, introduce it in Croatia, don't make people buy something they can't buy, which I can't afford and allow them to participate in the decision-making process. They don't have to be owners, they have to be involved in the decision-making process. And in this way, the property will move into the banking sector, into the hands of the tycoon. Then no one on anyone's private property will be able to decide on private property. You can't make anyone private-owned to respect someone else's opinion, so they won't even respect a worker and you have a chance, now you're in power, be an avant-garde. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9693	The answer to the replica of Mrs. Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9694	My colleague, I take this one as a criticism, and I take some controversy as a matter of fact and as a support. We have situations where you have a director's employee, and let's be avant-garde. I think that soon when we get rid of the discipline and where we make it possible as a commitment to working co-determination independently of ownership that these doubts that many of you express will be immaterial.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9695	Replica, Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9696	One paraphrase. I doubt it, so I am worthy of Croatia. You have to be suspicious. He says that as soon as the stockholders were mentioned, we began to doubt it. He's doubtful because what you're proposing isn't working stock, and because working stockholders are being manipulated. He's suspected because the workers are burned, cheated and robbed. And one more thing, my colleague was talking about conservative governments before this government. This is by far the most conservative government, this is also the right government. And a replica that doesn't go after you, which is right-handed, has caused a crisis in the world. The right cause is because you won't claim the capitalists are left. I'm sorry, a little political recognition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9697	Replication response, here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9698	I'm surprised by your colleague that you're doing grades like this, you're obviously looking for a political space. But let's be realistic, let's be objective. Therefore, the causes of the crisis lie in the conservative-liberal policy or policy that led to the fact that the market is sacred, that all of its worship as a golden calf, that all of this and all of these consequences suffered by Croatia were made possible by the financial institutions, and that the Croatian Government you say that this government is conservative. She is doing everything she can in Croatia, so to resolve these consequences and with such a bill I agree that it is a very small wheel but I also believe that after 2014 you will be a witness, and I probably hope that you will also support working co-decision. When we get rid of those relationships, those obligations imposed by the conservative governments that are in the majority and I hope that they will no longer be after 2014 and that you too, a fellow example of France and other countries, have given us precisely for the faith that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9699	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9700	This really looks like an election speech ahead of the European Parliament elections, but with so much demagogy, I haven't heard that in a long time. In the first part of the exhibition, Mrs. Ingrid said that conservative governments are guilty of the crisis, although Germany with a conservative government stands best in the world, so I don't know what these interpretations are. Second of all, in the replica of her colleague, she said it was also liberal. Now, since we have a clear statement and the Prime Minister as well as the managerial liberal first vice president, I would call it the manager's liberal character, then I don't understand why she kept the name liberal in the first part of the exhibition. Furthermore, sometimes the way of my colleague Ingrid says "The road to hell is filled with good intentions", I'm afraid these intentions are neither Croatian but are banking first of all and this crypto is crypto labour management or how you say self-determination, and you're actually hiding this word of self-government that is actually an attempt. You know very well that in the companies where this was introduced and where the workers already bought the shares that didn't work. When did the worker decide on Krass? Who's got the stock? It doesn't decide anything and it won't decide any further when you assign or sell shares of state-owned companies to workers. It's just a pseudo Ezop and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9701	And the replica of Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9702	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues of Antičević your speech was so energetic, pathetic, demagogue, but it doesn't take so much heat for all of us to agree that the work of workers is honorable and important and that no company or company can do well and be successful if there are no good workers. But you normally advocate how much we've been listening here for years to protect the public good, to prevent the abuse of public money from being poured into private pockets, and therefore I'm surprised that you haven't noticed what's key in this law, and that's why we're actually objecting to this proposed legal text, which is often an example of the Zadar port as one negative example where workers got bad shares and then sold them to someone else. And the question is, are you and how many of the workers who got the shares today are involved in deciding what's the point of the stockholdering? But this law suggests something even worse to sell the shares to workers and that the state guarantees for them that the state guarantees state property and that these shares can be sold to a third party and that the claim is not settled and that the bank or anyone who gave the loan on state property is seated. So, not only do they give bad guys, but to stock up more states with their third assets, that's the problem with the bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9703	Thank you very much. A minute to 12 means that as we prepare ourselves to 12, it will be 12 so that we can go as usual to the vote, and then we will discuss this point and finish after the vote. What? The answer to the replica you had? How come I didn't see that? Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9704	My colleagues you say that I speak patheticly, I'm saying it may be done to you, but I speak so... /The speaker disfellowshipped./...because I believe it and that time will come. When... you don't ask a question of crisis. Your government didn't set up and your sister's parties across the border in the West wouldn't admit a day today where the crisis came from. Well, it's not a weather accident that came out of some constellation or elemental accident. The crisis of gentlemen is your action, and this is a way and an attempt to resolve this crisis. The problem you're saying in the Zadar port did not happen on its own but was passed for your term several laws that prompted workers to sell their shares. That's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9705	It is now up to us to conclude the debate on the previous point, which is on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Property Management with the Final Bill and to inform you today that we will continue to work on Wednesday 20th of this month starting at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on HRT. Someone I see here suggests a day before, but you know we agreed and it's tight that Monday and Tuesday committees, so we can't have a plenary session on Tuesday. Secondly, we will, in all likelihood, continue to work on this session until the end of the constitutional period, and I think it will be 13.7 so that we do not constantly question each other as long as this session takes place. Here we go with the work of today's session. It's Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic's turn. Here you go, individual debate. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9706	I would ask colleagues and fellow MPs who are not interested in allowing colleagues to present their debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9707	I'd like to beg them to part ways. Mr. Vice President, come on...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9708	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to allow our colleagues to speak in peace. My friend Grubisic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9709	Thank you very much. I'd like those of you who don't want to be here to come out so I can talk in peace then, even if it's you and me alone, Mr. Train here. The proposal for a law amending the Law on State Property Management with a final bill is now after this hard vote, and the interruption is just... and it is interesting that for the fifth time it is interrupted just when I have to speak, an interesting proposal or a law. In fact, first of all, it is a question of whose state property it is. If the legislative proposal suggests that employees of state-owned companies will be allowed to buy shares by credit or any other means or form, I wonder whose state-owned property it is and what state-owned property it is. Is it only an employee's property or is it the property of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia? That's a first and a basic question. All or all state-owned companies are owned by citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Only employees have the right to buy shares. A bit of an interesting setting. Go on. There's been a lot of talk here to say a little demagogue about self-determination. It's a small step or a small difference between the word "worker's self-decision" and the word "worker's self-management." Apparently, the promoters have experience talking about working self-management, but then it was a stock-free situation. Today it is proposed that workers buy their self-decision or their self-management, so the cost of buying shares, loans, etc. So it would actually be a working self-help as another category that is also known to these on the left hand side, especially those older ones. So a working self-help for working self-determination. So just call it a real name once already. Just as the electricity price is increased, electricity prices to pool money into a state budget that would then be financed in HEP facilities of energy announced by Ombla, Plomin and I don't know what. Who's gonna pay for that? Except for citizens of the Republic of Croatia by increasing or under the exception of an increase in electricity prices. So this will be, now, by buying some shares of companies with questionable business, first of all, going to go on to say on the drum, the workers will acquire shares, and those who are already on this E.P.P. and our here all morning is a debate about it, and they don't even know what E.P.P. is, our viewers, our citizens. So it's an English art that means Employer Stock Ownership Plan, but it's actually a working stock, and that's why it bothers me here even when it's constantly mentioned by the ENP, not to explain to the citizens what it really is. Will the state-owned companies when the workers buy the shares do better? Is that a guarantee that they're doing better? Well, I'm sure he didn't. How many are in the management of state-owned companies and how many are doing negatively, and what are their salaries? Far greater than you're paying the council representatives two, three, and more times, but twice the minimum. And did this bill guarantee that in that case these companies would do better? So what's the impact of some stockholder being small in Kras, in Pliva, in a tanker's navigation and where everything isn't. So, it hasn't even shown that so-called. The famous ENOP has not been shown to be effective. What are the consequences of this or when it comes to banks being owned by state-owned companies, when they come into possession, it actually seems to be, it can really be suspected that this is all designed in connection with banks that are in the 99% side of ownership and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's a silent sale, and it's through a company of stockholders. Look, how cleverly designed to re-foreigners, foreign banks, know whose property they are, come into possession of Croatian silver, gold, treasure, what belongs to all Croatian citizens. So officially legal, and then it'll be after a year when it's said as a consequence of this law will be shit happens again, and shit after shit, every week at a time. So how long are we going to do that? Every week, shit one. Well, it's really a disaster what's going on in this government and in this country. So they do not know, as flies without their heads, the hour brings one law and everything according to an emergency procedure. Instead of working this out, instead of seeing what will result from this law, which follows this amendment to Article 34, what will happen when a worker loses his job when he cannot repay his credit. Whoever guarantees it, the bank that gave the loan clearly will come to visit such a property. And what's going to happen is there's going to be a charge of the state budget. Another kind of robbery... that aspect of the gentlemen called two years ago by a hack, a lot of what you called a hack, that 2%, 4%. So what's this, we have a hack to the hacks from week to week, from the price of electricity, from the increased VAT and from this working self-management that you called labour stockholdering. These are all the hacks you're introducing to fill the state, so it's not the state holding Radiir Cacic. And that turns out that holding is that he is now selling out by means of a cumbersome Labour Shareholdership Act or by learning to say "EZOP." Old Croatian yes. That's what it's all about, gentlemen from the left and the corn as you call yourself, think about it a little bit. What's next? Do you want the vice president or president of your government to tell us again after a year of criminal law like this is what we can do, we've been wrong or I'm not repeating this ugly English expression... what happens, I won't say this first part. And so on and on, because you're here neatly raising your hands every Friday as robots, and it happens from week to week worse and worse. Yeah, so actually this legal proposal is a trick, a real trick. He told the late Ivan Tomic when he was transferring games to the Dinams in Maksimir a big scam from little Mark. That's when he thought of Mark Mlinaric, right, and this is a big trick for little Ratka. So this legal proposal is a simple colourful lie, a trick that under the demagogue company gives rights to workers, so I say I just met in the square thousands of workers will be the owners of their companies. Don't tell me! There's the throat shouting here in St. John's Square. Mark, thanks to the government, the vice president first, and I don't know who he's letting go through the stock to tell to buy out my firm. And it's going to have a lot of influence on the management of these companies. They all took off to buy shares. So do you remember the defenses' shares? How many defenders have sold those shares because of the crisis they're in, because of this financial crisis they don't even buy bread in. Well, of course he'll sell the shares, so he won't keep them if he can cash the stock. And who's going to come into possession of those shares? Well, whoever has it. Or if there is a cancellation and a man cannot pay credit for the stock then the bank will enter into possession of what is Croatian property, what is the property of our generations from the seventh century that we have built here all together, and not just those employees and only employees. Again, I return to that first set of ownership of all Croatian assets are all Croatian citizens, not just employees or their administration, which would then be clearly most likely, or in a good part, to get their hands on these companies and actually have some new, new wave of tycunisation. Although I don't like to use that word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9710	Thank you very much. On this exhibit, we have one replica of our colleague Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9711	Here's a respected colleague, Grubisic, until the vote is... It's not like someone's shutting me down right now. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Until the vote was very important were workers, there was important working stock, full of workers' mouths, and even here almost shed tears because of workers, workers' management of workers' stock, but now look at this desert workers no longer matter. It's Friday, it's afternoon, it's supposed to be vacation time. Actually, it's hypocritical. This law isn't about workers, this change of law isn't about workers, this change of law is about something else we said behind the scenes. Banks will be undermined without that part of state-owned companies that are still worth something, and are not divided by tycoons whether they are tycoons from Croatia or tycoons that are connected to tycoons in Croatia tycoons from abroad. So the worker doesn't matter, and all that was said before was really hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9712	The replica will be answered by distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9713	Thank you, colleague Vuksic. I think we're like-minded here. In fact, this is a perfidual and sophisticated game, and that is what it says and the fact that the chairman of the Management Board of the State Property Management Agency is exactly the first Deputy Prime Minister. So, the list of assets, the register of assets of the Republic of Croatia is in one hand, and even now, that fact comes to us and this law, which will then, by part of the Croatian property, simply go into the hands of those you and I spoke of, and in fact, it is again about the banking sector that has ruined not only Croatia but the whole world. It's because of the banking sector in this world, not because of what they said there, Ingrid, conservative or I don't know what kind of elements. That's why we're here as a club. And thank you for your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9714	I now call on the distinguished representative, Tonka Ivicevic, to be involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9715	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected deputy First Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am in a different tone than my colleagues who have preceded my presentation, I will speak certainly in affirmative tone because I think this amendment of the law is absolutely necessary. Workers' shareholders have been developing in Croatia since the 1990s, but very, very slow. In shares companies in Croatia, workers mainly acquired shares as small shareholders in conversion and privatisation sold below nominal value and became minority shareholders in a large number of companies. In the past, there has also been a reduction in the total number of shareholders in Croatia due to the termination of the payment of purchased shares and the termination of the contract of the Croatian Privatisation Fund with shareholders. Since it is important and active participation of all workers in enterprises is precisely this way for better quality of work, business efficiency and for the achievement of accelerated growth and high profits, it is the ESOP that makes it possible to reward workers with workers' ownership. The starting point of the ESOP is that workers, with the help of credit to banks or other institutions, become owners of companies in which they work. The objectives of the ESOP programme are to gradually increase workers' ownership, increase overall income from work, save jobs and increase innovative and creative motivation for business work. I believe that in the next few years, Croatia will have a new model for managing and managing companies based on EPP models. I also believe that a large number of companies will join in drawing up their own plans for working stock. The failure of a long-term participatory model in Croatia, which leads to a steady increase in the number of unemployed, increasing pay gaps in the same company and an increasing number of bankruptcy cases, can be supported by data on the failure of a long-term participatory model in Croatia. Permanent growth in unemployment could be halted by plans to increase workers by existing or new businesses. That's why what's important, what this law has said requires an equal position for everyone. It means that the same position is placed on the part of companies whose shares are owned by the Republic of Croatia and those in which there are no shares and which workers can use the financial assistance of the company by virtue of the Law on Commercial Companies. It is therefore necessary to enter paragraph 2 in Article 35 in order to equalise state and private companies. So we're not talking about anything else here, we're talking about actually equating. This is the new regulation of Article 35. The Law on State Property Management would allow employees of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia to acquire shares and shares in these companies in such a way that they can impose or transfer their right to provide loans to banks or other institutions. As well as that the funds for the purchase of shares or shares of the company can be obtained with the financial assistance of the company. I would also like to say here that, according to previous research, labour and participatory participation programmes in shareholder management and management are in a relationship, they have the best impact on the long-term efficiency of businesses as well as on the quality of the work of workers and managers. As mentioned here several times and Mrs. Zgrebec said so, world practice has also shown that ESOP is one of the most famous models of working stock. For the sake of everything said, the labour market programme should be extended to state-owned companies and to new workers, with an additional emphasis, on more favourable financing conditions, and primarily for the reason that the owners of the companies in this case want to involve the workers in the ESOP. Because it is a model for increasing employment, for increasing labour productivity, for preventing the layoff of workers and for the entry of stock companies on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9716	Thank you. We've got two replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9717	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague put it nicely with all the necessary phrases to be found in such a referendum and these phrases are beautifully elaborated. However, it does not answer a few key questions, which is, however, dear colleagues, who are the companies in which the shares will thus be able to buy workers by guaranteeing the bank. If it isn't the energy system, is it the forests, or the waters of Croatia, for which the government has no and rightly has no courage to say and we will privatise it. They mustered up the courage for the Croatian postal bank and Croatia's insurance and came across a lot of resistance and wall. For this one they didn't have the courage, this may be a detour or it is, or it is the companies of the type of Dalmatia wine, the Immunological Institute that are in such problems that they have no idea how it will come out, or one of the other ones has failed on a similar path. So the workers are offered to own the place. With what resolution and what help it is for these workers, I don't quite get it. I'm saying it's really nicely complicated, but if it's really how you talk, and why didn't that whole thing turn into some kind of labour stockholdering law where it would write so nicely and where certain guarantees of the state would exist, which would happen later on. This is how it turns out that the state just wants to get rid of what's valuable and what's worthless, just keep moving that state property away from me, we don't need that. All of us are going to share this nicely to our privates, something directly selling something through working hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9718	This replica will be answered by the respected Tonka Ivicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9719	Here's the esteemed Mr. Representative here is primarily about the companies that are located at the AUDIO Agency that crossed from the Croatian Privatisation Fund when it was shut down, when AUDIO was founded. In which the state has its stakes in a smaller or larger part, or in a larger part. This is certainly not about companies that are energy-worthy for our country, and it is also not about forests, nor about water, because there are many times already said and the attitude of the Kukuriku coalition that there is no speech about such privatisation. You also mentioned the Labour Shareholdership Act, I think the Company Act regulated it. We actually just wanted to put this amendment of the law into equal status of workers, employees of state-owned companies with workers in companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9720	He also wants to replicate the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9721	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ma, I wanted to respond to your statement that, after researching the results of the ENP, the application of the ENP is positive that it is always something positive. It's a prerequisite for the law, a legal framework that doesn't exist here. This all you colleagues have now answered is practically, why no records of these companies are listed. You say this from AUDIO, it says a little different, it says a little different in the explanation. Therefore, what we say nicely, which we even have honest intentions, but if the paper says otherwise why should we believe, why should we believe in someone’s honest intentions that he declares. The paper has given a completely different framework and we have no reason, you know what's the worst of all, the worst of all I know that a good part of you doesn't believe that's good. But okay, this came as a web of something that's, what's called a coalition agreement, and we have to react as we have to now. And there are colleagues among you who think, no matter who we are, but the situation is such that we can't say it, or we can do it. Unfortunately, you can't and you have to respect the voting machine. The proof of all this is also this void in the assembly when talking about such an important but really important subject. We're talking about what's last left in this country, and even moreover, your representative is on behalf of the club that said about the remains of the remains. And now we talk about the remains of the remains of our beautiful ones in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9722	Thank you very much. And this replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Tonka Ivicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9723	If I didn't believe what I'm saying, I probably wouldn't say it, because it's just my practice and that kind of thinking. The fact is that we have very good ECOP practices in our country, in the Republic of Croatia. I can especially point out, and I won't be your advertising company in Dalmatia. It's an AD plastic that certainly is one of the best business companies in which we have this model of stockholdering. There are a lot of companies also where the state may be a minority owner and for such companies in fact also burdens the state to be in them and this is an excellent solution precisely for such companies that workers enter working stock and thus increase the efficiency of their work in a way that will also increase the profits of the company itself. I think that entrepreneurship is also very, very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9724	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9725	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the respected deputy minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today really when we talk about amending the Law on State Property Management, property is what we really have, which is worth it and ultimately the definition of assets is that these are mobile and immovable goods or property rights, legal or natural persons. All of us personally have been making property our whole life, and of course we are expected of that part of the country as well. And what is also an emphasis on the essential characteristic of the property that it is the existence of a certain degree of certainty that its administration will bring about future economic benefits and this speaks of the property that we have, if it is frozen, if it stands, if we do not fertilise it, is essentially no use to anyone. So every activity, every law and desire to enlarge it is essentially in contemporary capitalism that we make as many twists of that capital as possible and these assets will benefit not only us personally but also especially the state level. When we talk about state property, the most frequently mentioned shares are business shares, but most often there are both the most important and the properties owned by both the Republic of Croatia and other other assets, which are discussed by other agencies in that part. And when we talk about this economic benefit and our state property, we really need to see that the interest of the state when it uses the property must be to fill the budget. And that's strange to say and why wouldn't that be among other things. After all, all our schools, hospitals, salaries, pensions are financed from the budget, most of it being financed from the state budget. That's not what the same thing was said today for the majority budget. And better to charge the budget that way than to walk around the world and take credits that we need to pay very expensively later. Of course, the benefit must be an investor, all those who can benefit from the state property. There's an interest in making a profit. Of course, workers have jobs, and we certainly have to mention about state property and local administration and self-government. There's also a lot of allegations that what's been waiting for six months, why a lot hasn't been done. And indeed, in these discussions, a lot of these things were reported about the management of state property. Well, I'd just like to mention what's been going on. Otherwise, the Law on State Property Management was passed at the end of 2010 and the application of the Law on State Property Management in history went to those famous laws on conversion and privatisation as well as the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central State Property Management Office. All these transactions are taken over by the State Property Management Agency, which begins at the beginning of 2011. And according to the law, the agency will be involved in the process of rehabilitating and restructureing companies in largely state-owned property that have been found in problems. This law creates basic preconditions for the property-structured principle of state property management in a way that all shares and shares are considered as state property, and real estate and almost all land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Agency is also managed by the Director and the Administrative Council of 7 members appointed by the Government. As for AUDIO’s established agency shortly after its draft, as many as three directors were profiled. The first to leave because the agency couldn't form it as most likely as it wanted, the successor soon resigned. Also, instead of uniting state assets worth tens of billions of euros and transparent one-stop shop management, we also got a third director of the agency. AUDIO in that part obviously didn't work out much. Only a new model of state property management was based on changes in the manager. The Agency was also obliged to inform the government, and the Government then the Croatian Parliament whether we had these reports during 2011. I don't think we did. And that's what's important about what we should have brought, what we have a State Property Management Strategy is voted by the Parliament, and we really should have such strategies as parliamentarians because it's very crucial and important for our country. We don't have that. The State Property Management Plan also sets out the short-term objectives and guidelines for managing state assets and implementing measures in... I think we should do a lot of things here, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also have what the state property register said. No, there's no register. So, in these of the founding, or... The law on state property management since the establishment of AUDIO these years and something last year has been done little, and much has to be done because it is the management of state property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, it's so... We come to the result that the state property is staring at us empty, failing, let's be left with robbery and devasting, and also what's important when we make a decision on state property management was often covered by a veil of secrets, lack of information, and that's why the public takes negative views and with no confidence monitors any activity, and here we also hear everything, no one believes what comes out of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I would have said the same thing about governance of state assets and interests if everything wasn't so black, but there are also good and bad examples where the property of local administrations, cities and municipalities. There must also be synergy... Law-making from national level, regional and local level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's also... And it's the same thing that's said who best and best-quality can manage state property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was said to be a state, so there were immediately others and the conclusion that it was not a state either. So we have to find the most optimal way. That's what I believe. It's certainly not easy. For example, from the local administration of my colleague from Ivanac and Vice-President of the Parliament and the tenth year stands a request for a return of state property, a military facility in office, a function that is strictly defined. There'll be one facility for the student campus. There's a point, you know, and... by studying what will be the additional value of all this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can't reach that frame for 10 years. And with me in the town of Lepoglava we've been waiting ten years for you to imagine the park that we're using that we're also using in that section as local administration, you know how well you can do. I can say that from the EU Fund, the funds that we received in the local administration are almost 10 million kuna, we have invested everything primarily in the regulation and functionality of our local property, and with this state property. There are also many other examples. The question is always at the end how do you settle all this? At the end of the day, we also have these laws that are very good to me. AUDIO has a new director, has a new board of directors. So there's a lot of work ahead of us, but there's a lot of new hopes and expertise to be given, and this is also proven by this law that in the care of state property management, the benefit of our citizens, better filling the state budget, the obstacles to investment are being removed and the investment climate improves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9726	We have a single replica on this exhibit. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9727	Here's what I liked about Mr. Squirtić's exposure because he was honest. He said that the budget I realized was better filled with the sale of state property than to make up for it with expensive loans. And that's it, let's call things a real name. This is a sale and it ended here at a discounted price, we sell out but at a lower price. And it's still said that the government is run by the Parliament. The government is coming from the Parliament. However, two days ago, the Prime Minister specifically replicated to me that in Croatia and admitted that in Croatia the government did not respect the Constitution and that it was not parliamentary democracy but that it was part of a semi-cancellary system. That's not what I made up, that's what the Prime Minister said here. And all the time in the debates, the opposition is coming forward that the opposition doesn't believe. First, because there is no need for believers to sit in opposition. The whole time it's been saying believe us, our word of honor. But you gave the honorary word for VAT. You said we wouldn't lift, you raised the VAT. You gave an honorable word that you would not change the Labour Act, and now, by other law, you insinuate it with a working class, and now we should believe that this law is honorable to us, just for the benefit of the workers. Well, unfortunately, we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9728	We will also hear a reply to the replica of the esteemed Marijan Škvarić, whom I warn that the second time he appears for reply to the replica you must raise the tile, is not enough hands. You've got a tile underneath. Okay, you need to do this in time until... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I didn't say that... is based only on some kind of sale of state property but I said that and as indicated by any legal option that must be used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, for many years, we had nothing to pay for in the budget, because it is in itself that we should not pay for it. On the other hand, believe it or not, the law enables and allows someone to take advantage of it. No one is forcing anyone, and of course anyone who enters any business or any other relationship has a good estimate of whether it has purpose or no purpose. That's why it's always said that someone decides on behalf of someone. No one decides on behalf of anyone. We all have to decide. And just so we know how to decide for ourselves about our part, we need to be educated, we need to know a lot of that information that we can bring quality information on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9730	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To say right away in the beginning that we understand each other, I am against any privatization of any chair of state property while all first-privaced thieves are not in jail and until we have clear mechanisms to prevent the thief from the next privatisation. If you know there's a wallet in the tram, hold your pocket. You don't lift your jacket and open your pocket. So that's for starters. This privatisation should be carried out in companies owned by the state governed by this agency. The only problem is that both this government and the past have assigned one of the main tasks to make a detailed and real list of state property, that we know exactly what the state has. Then you can think I actually think it can be mastered if you don't know what you have. Then you can make a strategic plan. Of course he's not here right now. If we don't know what we have in mind how you're gonna make a strategic plan, yeah, I'm gonna sell this now, I'm gonna sell this in a year, I'm never gonna sell this at all, and I'm gonna buy this. How do you do that if you don't know what you have? However, according to the proposal, the law aims to make workers committed, motivated and to raise labour efficiency. So the law is kind of educational. They will make workers dedicated and motivated so that they will sell them shares of the company they work in and which, as we know in principle, is bad because she spent 15, 20 years hiring in state companies each of the last neighbours in the village to her brother. They will sell them shares of the company, guarantee workers, pay off their money, pay off their salaries as they are and guarantee the bank for these loans to the shares themselves, which we have declared a crime in Croatia at one point. And it's a good thing we made it a crime, right, when someone else did it. But what's actually going to happen? The state will raise some money. Right, they're going to raise some money, they're going to put it in the budget, and they're going to do what the government is going to do, and they're going to help. Who? Well, whoever's got it. It will help banks that will be on foot on those shares as a deposit of credit and at the first moment when the loan stops taking stock of themselves and will help directors, managers, people with such a salary that they can really pay it off without any problem, which will then buy from workers as small shareholders one part or all of those shares at a very low price. One of them settled down. Is there a need for others to settle down now? It actually reminds me of the situation in the '80s if someone remembers that crazy inflation of a few thousand percent, which served the same goal of stabilising the state. Who profited in that? Well, whoever could buy a thousand marks a month got rich in inflation. Others are poor. So the question is, where will the workers pay for it? Everything has already been taken away, prices have risen to European levels. Look at the prices in Zagreb and any European city, there is no difference. And the workers have already fallen for such or similar stunts. If they fall for it one more time, I can only say it and we've told you nicely. The ENOP expression which is a euphemism of course, the keys are always such as to hide the actual meaning and it means Employee stock ownership plan, the plan to own a employee's share with an emphasis on the plan. There's no plan here, it's just like your colleagues said open-ended possibility so whoever can, who won't, but there's no plan in it. Euphemisms are usually a common phenomenon in Croatian politics, whenever we want to say something not according to Orwell's principles, then such expressions are used that neither the public nor ourselves mean God knows what because they carry no emotional or meaningful charge to mean anything to us. The results of this, and apparently according to the situation all went out, so no one has any intention of discussing anymore, decisions have been made, the results of this will be seen and seen relatively quickly, will be seen who will become the real owners of these companies, and I claim that according to this paper here neither Croatian forest nor water nor any of it, nor Hep, no one has been excluded from there. So who's going to become real owners for, say, a year, two, three. If they really are workers and start getting dividends from these companies, I'm going to go public here at the pay phone, in Mark's square, wherever I need to apologize, but I'm sure I won't have to apologize to anyone. It is such a short law, almost irrelevant at first sight, to implement the promise made by the Deputy Prime Minister at the beginning of the mandate and by the Minister of Finance that he will privatise everything that is privatised to it. I think the moment for it, regardless of the pressures of Europe, I don't know what and whose attitudes, I don't think the moment for it is. Croatian workers are definitely not ready for this kind of privatisation and will therefore have nothing, and someone else will profit. You'll all be embarrassed to see who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9732	Replica, the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9733	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Vuljanic. Today it's called working stock, but this '90s model you don't need when you shouldn't have money to buy a company. The word was "bought," and later somebody's gonna pay for it. Today is also likely to recommend just buying, and later it will be prescribed to someone, and that someone is the one who has the money. The worst thing to hear is, you probably know it in your own experience, and if I told you. That's the worst line is to hear if I told you. And one more thing you said, I disagree with you, dear colleague Vuljanic, that there is no plan. He's got a plan, but he's not publicly spoken, the plan's behind the scenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9734	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9735	Just for a little while. Someone will pay, of course, someone will always pay. There's no party like this so that someone doesn't end up paying for it. The waiter always comes in, draws a line and says "hungry bits." They will pay Croatian citizens as they have already paid, they will pay by their standard, they will pay by their jobs, they will pay for their jobs, they will pay for what they do not have, and they should have justice. Someone's going to get, if the authors of that plan don't know, it hasn't caught me yet that I think there's a really cool plan, but those who do, and those who have money, who today have money and political power, will certainly profit from it. It is another way to pour the pockets of Croatian citizens into the pockets of those 200, 300, I don't know how long it should be, maybe twice 200,... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9736	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9737	Dear Deputy Minister. Well, here we have heard quite a lot today in this assembly about working stock, and on the trail of what I said yesterday in one of my discussions and got with a few replicas on my nose to think wrong, today unfortunately again I have to use the same tool, and these are the statements of the first Deputy Prime Minister who we ordinary mortals who we don't know, we don't understand, and what information we can unfortunately come up with just like that. In a business journal of 6 June this year, I will quote: First Deputy Prime Minister Radimir Cacic confirmed that changes to the law are being introduced specifically because of the implementation of the ESOP programme in Ulnik, which was announced three months ago, but since then there has been no information about its implementation. Workers have been announced that they will be offered between 25 per cent and 39% of the stakes, but still have no information on the specific price at which they will be able to buy them. This announcement also calls for the implementation of the Government's decision on the privatisation of the Uljaniks to read and the possibility for the workers of the Oilic shares to be acquired under more favourable conditions, but with workers, this possibility is envisaged by the original model and for other interested investors, which shares would be acquired by recapitalisation. This concept, according to unofficial information from the government order, has not been given up as such. Today we talk a lot about banks, but this report also says this: although it is not said who could be potential investors, except that they would have packages of up to 10% off the record, it is heard that in the case of oil stocks, the main stakeholders of PROSPERUS economic development funds, NEXUS and QUESTUS are also being prepared and taken over by some other Croatian shipyards. So what the First Vice-President of the Government has just said is unfortunately on the trail of what we are talking about here today and what is the stumbling block of those parliamentary deputies who would like the Labour Shareholdership Act to be more transparent, to be clearer, and especially to be clear to those who would enter such stockholdership. In Croatia, we still have some sort of generic term, although today we listen very much and try to picture the American where the program is highly specialized and qualified. Lately, and we have witnessed this, among the workers is creating awareness of the need to own the factories in which they work because they have unfortunately seen that no model so far has been quite successful, that for months without pay and income, and that it is time for them to make something and these factories to take into their own hands. So I'll just remind you of the business case in Dalmatia. Although these and the demands we have today are some kind of progress, the question is, why don't they change the real point of things? In this way, workers themselves become capitalists, and this contradiction I fear as such cannot really be maintained for very long. Workers would like to propose that this law works for themselves, and at the same time decide what will happen to the profits and how these money will be spent in at least one small part of it as small shareholders. Of course, these decisions will be made in agreement with this case with the state as the owner of these public undertakings. However, we are not currently paying attention to a few very important things. The price of shares, except for the reputation of businesses, depends, of course, on the business itself, and in this proposal we read that these are, as a rule, businesses with poor business. If the company is profitable from year to year, the price increases those shares and so does the demand for it but otherwise the share price falls if the company is non-profit. Such fluctuations can indeed be fatal for all those workers who invest in such shares. If, for example, they are. workers before retirement, and they are compensated by the number of shares they hold, workers are in a terrible loss when the stock price is very low at the time they leave for that pension. Stock prices play a big part in something else. What if there's a crisis and there's expenses to be cut? Who will these workers who have entered the stock market fire from their fellow workers? And how if they don't fire anyone because of some working co-ordination they'll be competitive on the market, and we've been listening for so many months about how important it is, almost the most important thing for the Croatian economy to be competitive on the market. What about the dividends? The owner of the stock has the right to dividend. It is decided by the Management Board, which is in close cooperation with the Supervisory Board, and since the administration is not from the ranks of workers because workers have fewer shares, only a conflict has been re-elected. Directors will say that it is not good to pay dividends because it is necessary to invest in investments, that we should invest to be more competitive owners, i.e. workers who bought shares with it will certainly disagree because they want a dividend too. Such a company will therefore not be competitive, and these are the key expectations that can bring us back to the beginning. As far as this is concerned, we could really talk a lot because the concept of equity is at least unknown to our citizens to the extent that they can safely say which shares and how they want to invest. It's sad that they're forced by something over and put before a finished act or a done act, or you buy shares, or you get fired. What we have already mentioned several times today is what state property is, apart from what the first vice president said by Uljanika, which will be given in such a form of governance? Do we in Croatia have any control over existing experiences in this Croatian practice regarding working stock? What are the benefits and tax reliefs the legal framework as such is not presented. Treatment of workers who bought shares and those who did not buy shares in the company, so what will be their status as workers in the same company, given that someone has those shares and someone doesn't? Do they all have to buy them, or do they just have to buy them, have money, or can they? This is proposed as we read in the bill because of those companies, i.e. companies that are in trouble, and the world practice, unfortunately, that we call so much here today, this model of the share of employees in the work of their companies recognises and implements in quite different circumstances, i.e. those companies that are successful as such and profitable, whose value of shares on the market is well quoted and in such companies these workers and shareholders can have some profit and some profit. And here's another reason why we're finally wondering why this and why in this way?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9738	We have two replicas on this exhibit. First honourary representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9739	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, dear colleagues of Tyreli only in favour of your debate spoke and Mr Vuljanić actually said that working stock may contribute to the productivity and efficiency of the company in a way that connects the interests of employees with the interests of existing owners, which is certainly good and commendable about the proposal of this law. Then Mr Vuljanic spoke about this ESOP shortcut and this Employee Stock Overship plan. The Germans say that as Mitarbeiterbeteligungs program, and actually the point is what I'm about to say. It actually raised the Federal Republic of Germany and if you look at the environment and euro area countries such as Spain, Portugal and Italy. You have a decline in industrial production, you have an increase in unemployment of 13.14.15.17%, while in Germany you don't have it, in fact they're looking for a new side, a foreign workforce precisely because of this kind of ENOP. However, they have practice and tradition because their industry is strong, and we don't have it at all. And this crisis that is now it is actually just because we don't have industry, as these countries that I have listed in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9740	And another replica, the esteemed Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9741	Thank you very much. Oh, me, I picked up this replica board, maybe I could fix the wrong quote, but here I am an old gentleman, so maybe I didn't hear you very well, even though I'm careful but time's moving away. You said Mrs. Tyrelli, if I'm not wrong about dividends being decided by the board of directors or something. As far as I'm aware of in companies, stock companies are always that, it's always the Assembly. And no matter how human I am, I belong to that stranger, who was never ashamed to say the word "workman" or "workman" or "workman." I've been listening very closely to you and your colleagues, and here's the cheerleader I'm looking at, but in the end I have to notice this when you're talking. There's still volunteering, there's volunteering about buying those shares, no one's pushing anyone. And I think, why I'm going to support this law is what you're imputing, yet one constant advance in relation to everything and to employment and labour rights in relation to the unfortunate 1990s. I hope at least that's the part where we get along and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9742	It is up to individual debates, distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this. The Honorable Representative of the Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9743	Thank you. Here's what I'm going to do with that line that I liked, and that's what my colleague Tyrell said, she said, "Why this and why this?" And I think here it is in that sentence and said somehow the essence of this discussion that I just wanted to discuss, which I wanted to talk about this topic, so I'm going to cut it short. In fact, the fact is that working stock is a well-known thing that is widespread in Europe, and it works very successfully, we heard it in the United States as well, Germany. And that's one model, really that's good and that can work. And therefore, if we read the reasoning of the legislator, which is an important element of justification for the adoption of amendments to the law and says that, firstly, they want to equate workers in the private sector and in the sector in which the Republic of Croatia has shares. So it's okay to want them, can and wants to enable those same rights and introduce a working stock. So, from that point of view, it's basically good, and I think we'll all agree on that, but what we disagree on here is that I agree with all those who talked about it. I think it's too serious a subject, that it's not just a subject, it's a one-and-a-life-of-life issue of all those who are going to get into it, so that all of this could be solved and proposed by one single article of the law. Because that article of the law says what it says, but it leaves a lot of open space and a lot of questionnaires, so I also think that this question should have been resolved by one law, by the Labour Shareholdership Act and by two readings. And I think it's something that would really be good if, although it already exists in Croatia, we had good examples. Unfortunately, we also have other examples that you're not good at, but then it could be, in any case, we could make assumptions that it's all going to develop positively together. Since I assume the ruling majority of this will vote. Well, here's the thing, at least it was an introduction, so to speak, the fuses, if that's what I can call them in the bill. For example. It would not be bad if workers of one company in which the State of Croatia had a majority or any share that they could buy shares if they wanted to, clearly always if they wanted to, and in another such or similar company. Secondly, a question arises for that one safety factor. And I also agree that it is not, we are in the time we are in, the time of recession, of an economic crisis that is not only in Croatia, but we all know it and much wider, etc. It's not like there's no time for people to make an easy decision to back down to one of those, that kind of decisions. But it may have been possible to consider that if one employee buys those shares, then what happened was not to happen tomorrow when for one reason or another, it can't pay for it to become the owner of it. Perhaps it could be considered that in that case, if the company then bought those shares back, so that the workers who enter it have at least some certainty that they would not run out of anything, given that we are, I said in economic times when everyone in some way is afraid of investment. Of course there's no talk about it in that law, but I suppose it's not the subject of the law, the conditions of what it will be, it'll be assumed to determine whether AUDIO, or the Government, or I don't know who will already determine how many shares, what discounts, etc., or what benefits. So I guess that would be, if this law were passed, that this would be the case in some other government decisions. And clearly it was good that before this law we had received one, and that was the case, so here's the thing, I don't want to repeat myself anymore, so I'm going to break up quickly so it would be a good thing if we got one privatisation strategy at all how the government sees it, what companies are, when it's going to be, what are the reasons, etc. etc. So if it were to go in such a order one strategy of the law, so the law in two readings on working stock, and then all this remains, I think it would be better complicated than this. Because this is how when we solve all of this in such a crucial, one important matter when we solve it or propose to solve it with one single article, it opens up the issues that are being asked here today by colleagues and for a reason are being asked because then it also causes certain doubts regardless of what is in principle that principle that equal workers in rights are absolutely good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9744	Thank you. And on this we have two replicas. First distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9745	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thought I'd start with something else, but in the end, I'm going to start with your last part of why this debate lasted so long today, until this time of year. It's because of the lack of what you said at the end, that there's a whole solution, that there's a complete law, that there's a plan to see what, when, how and why. This debate wouldn't last this long either, and there wouldn't be so much doubt that it's hiding behind everything and whether something's hiding. Your initial speech that actually let's say and provoked me to the reaction was your finding that you quoted examples from the United States, Canada, a colleague from Germany, and I don't know who else he mentioned in Europe. Working stock is a good model. Workers' stockholders are imposed as if they were a good model. It's not a good model at all, it's neither good nor fair. It is a model that has forced large capital to talk about it as a good model, which is to avoid those who have to pay extra, i.e. to pay taxes in full and to reduce their taxes through it. And the company's business has also been burdened by those who are the weakest in the business of workers. The worker has to invest and the proportional part, normally it's a much smaller part but it's much less and it has. He must invest in the sustainability of his job. If he wants a Tokar machine because it's outdated, if he wants to change it, he'll have to pay for the proportion. It's simply the invention of the Western world, the world of large capital and it definitely has nothing to do with justice, but they can agree that it's less bad, less bad than total destruction, than losing all jobs. Only with the conclusion that a complete legal framework must be defined and the objective and complete insight must be known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9746	Second replica Borislav Kovacevic, Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9747	Yes, Boris Kovac, please. Thank you very much. Here I am, however, pleased that Mr. Kalmeta's representative said that this is in principle good, and that he obviously means law and working stock. But on the other hand, I'm expressing regret. It's a little bit, I'm sorry you just said that. Why didn't you say that? Why didn't you put your finger on it before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9748	That's why we've exhausted the debate individually by the MPs. We have another debate on behalf of the HNS club for 5 minutes and a respected representative, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9749	Here's Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Minister won't take five minutes because he's already moved there. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, we will support this Act because we consider it a law of some additional possibilities, however much it is said today in this assembly about it. He will, however, have some workers who feel their interest that in companies that are still vital in state ownership they will put them in a position to try to make a working shareholder and become co-owners of the companies they work in. Of course, the issue of the law of the total labour market remains open. So we don't think of this by solving the whole issue of working stock, but one step forward anyway. As regards insurance from the possible speculation of the shares that would be purchased in this way, there is a possibility that during the tendering, the tendering procedure should be prescribed in the tendering of the share retention obligations for a certain period of time in order to prevent classical resales seen in certain other situations similar to or identical. And finally remains above us managing state property as an open question, I would dare say one of the crucial questions today in the Croatian state. Because the fact is that it can be called in any other way, but it was managed neatly with state property isn't and that's why we're here today. The lack of a strategy is one interesting thing that can, for example, return to the INA stock story and the privatisation of INA. If we had a strategy today, maybe INA wouldn't definitely be owned by other companies today, if we had a strategy, no one would have prescribed a complete loss of control of even telecommunications. It'd sell just as much as we'd be able to sell. Unfortunately, there was no strategy, so we're recording the results today. Therefore, the position of the Croatian People's Party club and the message from this pay phone towards the executive authority represented today by the Deputy Minister for the protection of the country's vital interests to approach the creation of a state property management strategy. Also to finally, although it is a very long job made by the inventory of state property. It's final. The Croatian People's Party club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9750	Deputy Economy Minister Tamara Obradovic-Mazal will address the debates raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also thank these remaining hardworking MPs who held out until the end of the debate as I had already said in the morning a short article which had nevertheless provoked a long but also contentious debate. In some ways, in many of the questions you asked in your discussions, I would, referring to your discussions if you would allow me to answer with a question. Who protested yesterday in front of the Ministry of Economy, whether it was large capital or to see what we still called in the debate workers, tycoons, capitalists, but also people who would easily seduce the bank's conspiracies and anonymous financiers and investors. So, who protested in front of my ministry yesterday? They protested and protested the unions and workers of the RIZ, which is not how we also defined in today's debate the companies that were the subject of this law lost and failed companies, because the RIZ certainly did not. We mentioned the Oilman. I wouldn't call the oil company a loser or a failed company, and right now, the unions and all the oil employees I would call the last tycoons, the capitalists, but also the people who are easy to seduce, take their money, take their shares, make them do something and then pick it up later. Since you've opened up the mention of these companies here I'm kind of free right through the companies that you've set as an example to put it back. We have shown exceptional care for workers but in some ways with the help of a potential crystal ball. Why? What happens when they get shares when they buy shares? Will someone take that away from them? What if they get fired? What if they retire? What if the company fails? I would return to what MP Kovačić mentioned, freedom of decision and freedom of ownership, and free of charge both with my own brain and with my own pocket and wallet. What's the point of this short bill if we move aside from conspiracy theory, a potential attack on stock companies by those to whom it doesn't belong? It is very simple to recapitulate the proposal of this law that we want to achieve the following thing, that they freely, freely and freely thinking about their own decision-making workers, employees of companies in the bulky ownership of the Republic of Croatia who, in agreement with the Government on behalf of the owner, are going to offer it in synergy and dialogue with workers of these companies through a competition at the end and in the tender for the purchase of shares, a special separate package for employees in which they will define the percentage of shares, the percentage of discounts in terms of the work experience, the calculation of the value of those shares, and all in accordance with the Securities Market Act and the Commercial Society Act, let's not forget about these two legal frameworks, these freedoms by thinking people with their own will decide to acquire the right of ownership of the shares of the company that they believe in this measure that they want to buy their own shares, these people will express their free will buy those shares. Now we're coming up with that key thing that we may not have been so emphasising during the day. In private companies, people who want to buy their company's shares with their will, if they don't have enough resources at the time, they can, like we do as citizens, go to the bank, get a loan for the apartment, a non-intentional loan, that's all the expression of our free will, no one from the banks drags us into the bank building to force us to sign a loan if we don't want to. Therefore, those state-owned workers who want to do so today do not have the opportunity to go to the creditor with their will, to take credit for their company's shares and thus to participate in the ownership structure. Whoever wants it with this bill will be able to do so, whoever doesn't want it will neither make it this law nor the First Vice President nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia, either myself or the entire left hand of this Chamber make it do something beyond its own free will. And what happens later when a man becomes free of his right to his property with his free will, is the message of today's debate that we want to prohibit people from freeing themselves from having their own property paid for by their own money and by their own property, can anyone prevent me from selling my apartment tomorrow or buying someone else's apartment? So, do we want to go perhaps in this debate a step further in defining what we consider to be the right property and the right to have our own assets that we paid at the end, whether by going to the bank and raising a loan or with some savings that we have. But the moment that something is my property, I will certainly have with it the way I think I will, and not the way someone else imposes on me, or within the framework of their economic, economic, within the framework of these opportunities and my own free judgment. So, we have to ask ourselves, in conclusion, are we today for the rights of employees in public companies or in companies owned by majority or largely owned by the state are we to give them in the exercise of their free will to buy shares of their company, are we to give them the same right that these shares can be pledged as an insurance instrument as they can at this point by the laws in force which this Parliament has passed, workers, employees of private-owned companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9752	For the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9753	Dear Deputy Minister. Very short. What's the incorrect quote? Wrong quote, you said there would be synergy, that synergy and dialogue with workers. There's no synergy... you've talked like we're living in Sweden, like everything here is known to be, all laid down, everything works. So we have experience, teaches us experience. Everything you said wonderfully, you said wonderfully, well done, your sentences were fantasticly complex, grammatically neat, fantastic. I'd give it all to sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9754	But what is an incorrect colleague, Vuksic?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9755	That the government synergy dialogue. I said it at the beginning. Now I'm explaining why. There's a synergy dialogue going on. If you were in front of the Norwegian Parliament, you'd get a round of applause for accuracy. This wasn't true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9756	The debate on the text of the law is over with this. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what we've exhausted the scheduled agenda for today. I'm interrupting the hearing. As the president said, we continue Wednesday at 9.30 of the HRT Act. Goodbye. Have a nice weekend. Final draft law amending the Law on State Property Management, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 97. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, with 80 votes in favour and 35 against the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Management of State Property, are in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9758	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the HRT Programme Council. The decision shall be proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media in accordance with Article 25. HRT law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest, I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on discharge. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that this motion for a decision has been adopted unanimously with 130 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9759	We move to a statement first, (a) Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Electronic Media Council and (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the Electronic Media Council. The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 68 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on electronic media. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. There is, Mr. Representative, otherwise you didn't sign up, but we can take that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9760	Your Honor, Mr. President, if I were, above all, to say that we didn't get that material, we didn't get it. Here's my apology, we don't have it. So, if I were to beg if I had one, but if it's what we think it's about, then I want to warn you here. If this is about replacing two members, because that's what this is about? The replacement of two members, where is the name of one from Zagreb, one from Rijeka, I think it is because of the mandate? I want to warn you of one fact, I apologize in advance if I'm wrong, I think I'm talking about a good document. I would like to warn you of one fact that in this Council, if this is the case, we will have a situation that we will have 4 representatives from Zagreb and 3 from Rijeka. And that we shall have no one represented, neither of Slavia nor of Dalmatia. Which I do not think is good and that when making such decisions, care should be taken into account for the equal representation of representatives from all over. They change, if I am not mistaken, in this material that I saw earlier from the board, I think 1 member from Sibenik and 1 from Split, with candidates from Rijeka and Zagreb. And already there were two candidates from Rijeka and three candidates from Zagreb. From the position of our HDSSB club, we warn that there has been no representatives from Slavna and Baranja in the Council so far. It is not true that Slavonia and Baranja have no quality personnel who could sit in that Council. And for us, it's also unacceptable that instead of two candidates from Dalmatia, none of them could have stayed from Dalmatia, I think they should have replaced that instead of one, one from Dalmatia and one from Slavonia. And for us, this is another proof, of a truly unbalanced relationship and an unequal relationship to, and even on this one, I would say a benign example of how the new ruling majority applies. Do not put in a position that only Zagreb and Rijeka, because the SDP allegedly "Good stands in these regions", only their candidates can now be in such bodies, it is unacceptable and we really oppose it. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9761	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr. Jandrokovic, let me answer your remarks, which is that you did not receive the material, so I draw your attention that I was on April 23rd, so almost two months ago, I sent the material to all MPs, so everything is fine with you. Because you said you didn't, and I said we did now. Here you go, Mr. Representative Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9762	Thank you very much on behalf of the HDZ Club. Well, it's interesting what my colleague Buric said, and I have to say that we share his opinion. Because it is unusual that of the seven members of that body, 4 come from Zagreb, 4 from Rijeka as if the rest of Croatia were gone. If it's a public tender, I think those who decided on it should have taken care of it. We have to admit we missed it, we haven't seen it, but we really support what's said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-15-0.u9763	Okay, I'm closing the debate, but we have amendments that are more technical, but they're amendments. The club of HNS representatives has submitted two amendments, so I ask that the proposing representative, but not the amendments, but these decisions be made to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Berislav Shipush, on behalf of the government, please. They accept, thank you very much. So I am concluding the debate and I am voting on the motion for a solution. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes 81 votes to 37 against, 37 abstentions have been taken to resolve the work of the members of the Electronic Media Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Now I'm voting on a motion for a decision to appoint? Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes of 82 votes in favour of, 5 against, 39 have been abstentioned by a decision appointing the works of the members of the Electronic Media Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you.
