ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3462	... Amendments and additions to the Law on the establishment and detour of ministries and other central authorities of the state administration. [[The speaker's off the mic doesn't understand.]] The law that passed a really good debate yesterday on the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and on the basis of these discussions has also been issued and some amendments to the legal and technical and contained nature which the Proposer and will accept when they are on your benches, we will make it clear. But what is the point of this law? It is, in fact, a conceptal alignment with the new structure and the detour, over-forming the structure into several parts of the ministries and other central bodies. And so he is quite substantial, and one part of the norm is the alignment with the extreme legal-technical character while the other is the alignment in the takeover or addition of the affairs in the metric. Here's a few more important things. First of all, at the beginning of this bill as the Central Authority of the State Administration, it is proposed to establish the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Small intervention but also significant with the intensification of all central government bodies for the sake of legal certainty, visibility of simple legal correctness is determined by the same law. It has been redefined and prescribed the jurisdiction of the State Administration Office of State Assets when it is found that the jurisdiction of the State Office is partly overlapping with the authority of the Agency for the Management of State Property and the Office will propose to the Government an appropriate policy and governance criteria while the Agency will carry out operationally the tasks for which the law is in charge. The government will also, in a relatively short time, and that is the transitional norm of this law, offer a new concept of state property management owned by the Republic of Croatia. The defence ministry is taking over part of the jobs of the current Ministry of Health and Social Care. It is the rights established under the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, and thus one legal void is also filled. Two norms that are practically headed by a delegation of the Department of State Monitoring at the Croatian Monitoring Institute, i.e. the Ministry of Health in accordance with the Law on Medicinal Products and the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse at the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. A series of norms that harmonize the work and are closer to specify what it refers to as its cleavage. Both at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and at the takeover of the Office for Central Public Procurement by the State Office for Central Public Procurement, that is, its activities, and in practice the closure of the Office for the Social Partnership and the takeover of its tasks by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. An important norm is the complementarity of the Ministry of Economy's work which remains a governing body related to the implementation of the Croatian Government's decision on strategic documents since October 2010. Remember the use of EU funds and other international sources. The Ministry of Administration shall delete the activities relating to the pooling of the purchase of information resources. For the bodies of the State Administration, a small standard of great reach. All of this goes to the State Public Procurement Office, which also extends the delirious, i.e. the procurement authority related to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and according to the amendments by the President of the Republic and the Croatian Parliament, public procurement is not '. An important norm is the addition of the Ministry of Finance’s section where its supervision of the implementation of the Law on concessions is extended to the supervision of other regulations governing the concession system so that we have one integrated control over this important, important system that is indeed seas, probably one more progressive control of the concession system is expected not only with us but also a trend in the world. The section of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is also arranged to be easily, recognizable, and we also find it a very useful and legally justified way to transfer the implementation of administrative professional pedagogical supervision into the professional hands of the Education and Education Agency. And what has been difficult for a long time, which is to carry out inspection tasks over high schools, is practically wiped out by those standards, the constitutional category of university autonomy, thus being further and fully affirmed. The inspection supervision of the implementation of the Sport Act is also a norm that strengthens the intelligence of the Ministry of Science. In addition, it is determined that the State Hydrometeorological Institute is a senior minister of environmental protection and that the Ministry of Environment Protection, not a minister of science, education and sport, is being carried out over its work. Major amendments, changes that are practically conceptually regulated by the way and functioning, the way and structure of the central authorities of the state administration, and therefore, as follows and under way, the creation of new regulations of the new organisation of the state administration, the new formation of the ministries of state offices and other bodies should be adopted by an urgent procedure. The Government intends, on 26th of this month, to adopt most of the regulations and to adopt and proceed with the regulation process, namely the completion of the internal order procedure in order to fully implement its tasks. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3463	Thank you very much to the motionary. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee and the working bodies of the Parliament want? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to discuss clubs. The first to speak was the Croatian Labour Club, the party of work, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Mr. Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is supposed to be the technical law, and that's how it is. In fact, the government has the right to organise itself within the government and its organs as it thinks it is rational and gives it good, and as it thinks it will achieve the best working conditions. In addition, the government has no right to act unsurpassedly and to miss out on what is most rationally the cheapest and best for the normal functioning of the government. I'm not sure this law has always done that, so a few examples. For example, in Article 4. The law behind the word "new technologies" adds the words "participate in development policies in the field of processing, wood processing and food industries" to the side of which now wood processing and food industries are part of the processing industry. But I asked on the Committee why other industries, groups or whatever, I'm saying these aren't branches these are so some random categories, why they're not in there, so they told me there's them in the rest of the text. Then after the Committee, I looked at the rest of the text, they're not in it, so the text of the Law contains these three industrial groups of companies as you wish. I would be very pleased to have it done on purpose, so that the government is manifested by saying that this very group of companies, whatever you want to call them, are of priority interest to us, that's what we're going to ride on in the future, that's where we're going to start the development of the Republic of Croatia, that's where we're going to do everything possible, we're going to help others, but we're going to do everything we can here. But it's not like that. I asked the assistant minister if it was true he told me it wasn't, but it was inside because there were interventions from some ministries that it should be found inside. That's scary, because that's what it says about the complete lack of compasses, orientations and ideas where it goes, why it goes and how it goes. For the EEA Joint Committee The law, article 23 of the Basic Law, speaks of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and in one place mentions the word "technology", which I am pleased but would be more pleased to mention in terms of competences and what the Government intends to do in more places. In fact, the ministry used to be different organised ministries, at one point the ministry was called the Ministry of Science and Technology, not for no reason. Technology is the application of what they have already learned, made and invented in the world, and what we do not need to spend our basic resources on, and that is what the future development of Croatia rests on. If we don't know very little of the scientific discoveries that would lead to Nobel Prizes, we'll make the like. That's why I'd be glad to have more technology in there, but obviously it's not a guideline to what's going on. The same article of the Law says that the Ministry does administrative and other activities relating to sport development. When this government was formed, the minister collapsed with all tools and weapons artillery and others to corruption in sports. He collapsed and shut up. It's not a letter anymore, and the president of the Football Union when they ask him if he talked to Jovanovic, he answers, and what is he to you? This is due to the fact that this job, which is a job, a hard job, has been silenced and the job stops. Some things are vaguely said, for people who will eventually read it and try to see what's inside. Article 10 mentions the consumption of drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors. Let's do a survey of who knows what the word "precursor" means. Probably not a lot of people, is it? There are normal Croatian words such as semi-product or raw materials or something like that, it is unnecessary to do something very wise, which is not so very wise. Article 13 refers to the State Property Management Office. I expected the State Property Management Office to stand here at the top, will complete the State Property List procedure, which began in the past term of government. We've never heard it's over, and it'd be nice before we start running state property seriously, if we knew what's in it. What's the boss handling? Because a boss who doesn't know exactly what he has in the house, so he's hardly a good boss, by definition he can't be. On the other hand, when these days are seen in what way the administrative and supervisory bodies of state firms are called that it is a clean division of war prey by the parties as agreed and that this technology adopted a decade ago and something more still works perfectly. It's clear, and that list isn't really the most important thing. Yesterday it appeared in the media government's decision that state-owned companies, companies of the particular state interest of those on the list, can also enter people who are rightly, illegally and in any other way convicted of crime in another company, because the Law on Commercial Society is applied where it stands. We also warned from this pay phone that the government should make some kind of regulation a list of conditions that would be different from the Company Act, more severe because it is not about private property of government members. It's about government property, our property, the property of taxpayers. Such a regulation has not been adopted but is directly applicable to the Law on Commercial Companies and it is possible for the Supervisory Board to be composed of all members of the Supervisory Board to be of the order of power and unlawfully convicted persons for various criminal offences. It's the result of the division of the spoils of war. When you see it and if it's real if that's what the intention is, then maybe it's better if we have to sell fast. It's better to sell quickly than to have people like that sitting on our boards and boards of directors in the public, the state you want to own. At the end of the law, it doesn't say how much this law will cost. It's usually in the laws, it doesn't say here. The assumption is it won't cost anything. That's not true, it'll cost. All these institutions that change names have to change tables, have to change addresses, have to log people out from one place to another. It'll all cost time and effort and money, the question is, how much does it make sense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3465	Thank you. Next up for discussion is the HDSSB Club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Yes, it is true that citizens, like all of us, expect and not only because of pre-election promises but also from general concepts of the situation in which we are in a rationalisation situation. We expect all of the set of rational excesses, sustainable and cost-effective decisions on the formation and detour of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, and what it says today in this legislative proposal. But already when we start talking about the highest body on the government of the Republic of Croatia once upon a time, a former prime minister said that he was "Primus inter paras" or "First among Equals", and here he is now almost served in the use of both the media and everywhere the first vice president of the government. In this material here, I don't see in the government's structure that there is such a thing even though there has been no such thing as I know... former prime minister or first vice president. This is mentioned in the media clearly says the first Deputy Prime Minister has said that and that. Who are the second, third or fourth vice-presidents of the government I don't know? Are they lined up by regular numbers, is that by importance, by ingenuity, by pay or by what? I don't know. This material doesn't control it. Who's "Primus inter paras" who's the second inter pars about it here has no words. Furthermore, when it comes to ministries that have more than before, than had a previous government, the word racio or rationally certainly does not hold water. Every ministry, the new ministry, as a colleague who spoke before me, demands at least if nothing changes the seal, changes the tables and a number of other technical things that seem to be small but cost, i.e. the minimum one that costs. Here it was yesterday formed, I didn't know there were offices, agencies, seduces, institutes, and yesterday a new form of center was established. The Energy Center. And let's find out from the papers today, interesting. I don't want to be like my colleague Cain speaking from the papers here at the pay phone, but he writes the Energy Center with two members of the Supervisory Board. As far as I know when it's being decided somewhere, then there's always some odd number, so it can be balanced by the votes of the majority, so democratic, there are two members of the Supervisory Board at the energy center, which is kind of what it's called, which would be the president of the very first vice president of the government. There is no energy center in this material or we find it. So that's what's not in this material. Whether to be later here in the Parliament delivered material on the establishment of the Energy Centre I don't know that. Now, about what it says. This is what it doesn't say. In this law is set up under number 1 central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia or state office, excuse me, this central was deleted although I do not see whether the state or central, however, he is state, he is an office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and so on. We have already discussed this in the past term before the end of the term in relation to the problems of Croats outside Croatia, so all three groups and minorities, Croats as minorities in neighbouring countries and then emigrated Croats in distant countries and ultimately Croats who as an indigenous people, as a people who have lived in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the ages. So we realized then that there are three places and maybe even a little more state bodies like that. The mother of the emigrants of Croatia, so there is a department for foreign affairs in connection with the evicted Croatia or Croats outside Croatia, etc. The state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is now being established and will soon be on the Parliament's agenda, and the president will be appointed as already called the Croatian Office outside Croatia. All those who were employees and at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Matica of the emigrants of Croatia will therefore be those material assets and staff and everything else will belong to this state office, and yesterday we heard here in the debate that such state offices and then one of the agencies has as many as 500 employees. It's huge to say appliances, and here we are swearing that this government has brought and at least this way, let a little bubble reduce the number of employees in the state administration. is referred to as a figure of 5000 etc. Now, according to this material that's been brought here, it's not exactly a reduction of one, let alone 5,000. This material shows that, in view of the division of the pre-named ones, they are already in the name of what is being seen and which is being done by the ministry, that there has been division of competence in the economy, in some financial affairs, etc. So, as a colleague has already noted, there is a special emphasis on wood-processing and food-processing industries, which belong to and has been stressed that they belong to the Ministry of Economy. The wood-processing industry is a continuation in fact and a logical sequence of actually forestry. When you read how much the Ministry of Economy and the Minister has responsibilities and obligations, plus what is on the Supervisory Board or Supervisory Committees, that is, starting with the Energy Centre, so I'm talking about the first Deputy Prime Minister, then it's a little bit vague, perhaps even though the wood-processing industry as a logical sequence after forestry belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Or the food-processing industry that I'm not going to tell you about the Ministry of Agriculture. So what is processed by the food and processing industry, so what is raw materials, which produce, unfortunately is more imports than our peasants produce, in that is the problem, and is now Slavonically closed at Dukat. So they're a little bit strange, so there's a lot of stuff that's been mixed up here in this way and in decision-making, or there's a special interest in a particular minister just for a particular area. Or it's his, that's what he likes, likes to deal with wood-processing and food industries. It is also interesting to find that part of the State Office for Central Public Procurement says it is found that the State Office performs the tasks relating to central public procurement, except for the central authorities of the State Administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Offices and professional services of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I suppose the Office of the President of the Republic has been added here. Why is this excluded from the procurement decision and from the jurisdiction of the State Office for Central Public Procurement? What? It's not? Well, it says so, it does, except for me, if I'm writing, I guess, except, then I don't know what that means. It's written except for the gentleman in the light of this law, except. This means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so all ministries, offices and professional services will probably do their own procurement, information equipment, etc., without the control of the Central State Office. And... Page 6 The second item above writes nicely. [[You don't understand.]] It says, it says, you read. Now these precursors or predecessors of intoxicating drugs, they're like this, doctors sometimes like to play and use our medical termology, even though it's so irrelevant whether someone enjoyed the precursor or enjoyed the finished drug, a finished product. I think it's perfectly right that this attachment belongs to whatever it is called, drugs or psychotropic substances or their precursors. It's so anyway, it's pure termology that's here in use and maybe someone controversial, here's me as a medic and it's not. So this is about this formation of the government, which is determined by the arrival of the new government, in fact, by this technical law, setting up, and the detour of the ministry, so also the competences of individual branches and economies, culture, sports and all that our society does to society. There is one thing that is still interesting, and that is also on page 6 in paragraph 5, to propose to supplement the section of the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, and in the back row of this item with the aim of encouraging added value in the energy, transport and tourism sector. It is particularly interesting or is a particularly interesting word, i.e. two words, creating added value in the energy sector. In the energy sector. And at the beginning of my presentation, I was saying that there was also a Energy Center, and we find out that the chairman of the Supervisory Board has been proposed here's the first Deputy Prime Minister. Ms. Holly, we can say clearly and loudly that she is the Minister of Environmental and Nature Protection, and then Mrs. Holly actually belongs to what it says here to encourage the creation of added value in the energy sector, and in fact it is about encouraging investment in energy plants, in the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder how this will all work when we have what it says, so this jurisdiction in the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of nature and this composition of the Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3467	Thank you very much. The HDZ Club's position on this bill will be presented by the respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and deputies, Mr. Deputy Minister. Perhaps colleagues from the ruling coalition will be surprised when I say, but the HDZ club will not support the adoption of this law, and we will try to explain the reasons why we will not do so. So, unfortunately, the emergency procedure has proven itself again in full effect because we passed this law on December 22nd. We haven't been able to celebrate for two months to be a law without change, and now it's changing again. Maybe if he'd been in a regular procedure, maybe it would have looked different. Of course, this time, the government suggests that these changes are also made by an emergency procedure because there is no time to wait. And why isn't he here? It can be understood that when some of these amendments were made by this law, which were probably known to the promoters because they had been preparing for a long time, they might have been able to install these amendments that they now propose into the text of the law adopted on 22 December. What I think is important to say and what are our essential remarks Mr. Deputy Minister has said is that part of the remarks made on the committees the Proposer has accepted, so we will not refer to them in this report or the club's proposal, we will talk about what we think are essential problems and such a small law because it goes into some things so that it turns out that we are completely losing principles especially in the system of state administration. So I'll say something about it first. So, in its reasoning, and then in some articles, this law states that some ministries, for example, at the Ministry of Finance, need to strengthen the control of law enforcement, give additional powers of inspection of concessions, the approvals we welcome, and we think that even so far in practice, the application of the law has often been worse than the laws themselves. Well, then the centralized inspections of the Ministry of Finance are strengthened. At the same time, however, the law says that it is giving up that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport has control over the university because the university has its own autonomy and that it is sufficient for the Ministry of University, i.e. high schools and science to exercise administrative supervision and that administrative supervision will obtain sufficient results by transferring inspection from the body of the state administration to regulatory authorities or public administration bodies, which is a completely different system and de facto that inspection comes out of the state administration system. So in this law where de facto regulates only a few detours, that is, several bodies have been able to give up the principle which in one case supports, in one case requires additional powers for the central authorities, and on the other hand, the other authorities deny that right. We believe that administrative supervision as provided for by the State Administration Act, as implemented under the General Administrative Procedure Act cannot replace inspection control and we think that doing this makes you more damage, you ministers who are responsible for the situation in your portfolio are taking one of the essential instruments for law enforcement, which is this inspection control that exists for some, and you now feel that some other bodies should do so. This, of course, imposes further problems with the Constitution guaranteed the right to appeal. Who and when to resolve complaints that will be made in the light of the inspection supervision of certain regulatory authorities that would receive such powers, etc., etc. And I think that, in addition to clarifying the system of state administration, we are also mixing the system of state administration with something de facto outside the system of state administration something which is a set of regulatory bodies that have a completely different function. What he specifically said would be dangerous is Article 13 of the new law amending the current article 27, which was established two months ago by the State Office for the Management of State Property declares to be a coordinating body and I think it is important for the public to read which part of it is such a newly established body that shares certain matters with the Agency for the Management of State Property. We know that for 20 years we have managed to find the best solution from the Agency for the Management of State Property or Assets and the Privatisation Fund until a year ago, a system was designed through the Agency for the Management of State Assets, which was supposed to take over all these jobs. Now we're doing a new cost again, now we're redistributing jurisdiction, but in a very interesting way. Therefore, what is the business of the State Administration Office of State Property, according to the Law proposal, is that it is coordinating and harmonising the criteria for the management of state property, that it participates with the relevant ministries and other bodies in establishing guidelines, that it proposes to the Government a decision on the establishment of companies and other legal persons of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia. To give an opinion to the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Resorbent for the appointment of the owner's representatives in the Chambers of Commercial Companies, to propose candidates for presidents of the Assembly of Commercial Companies, candidates for members of Supervisory and Management Committees, candidates for members and presidents of the Management of Commercial Companies and other legal persons of strategic and special interest to the Republic of Croatia. It shall give its opinion to the Agency for the Management of State Property on a proposal from the Minister of Resort, on the appointment of representatives of owners in the congregations of companies of strategic and special interest but not in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia, giving the Agency, at once, a preliminary opinion on proposed plans for restructuring of companies in difficulty, giving prior opinion to the ministries and the agency in obtaining the sale, donation and replacement of shares, giving the Agency prior consent to requests and the opinion of the Agency to which it participates in the process of producing documents of spatial order, the State Office shall monitor the use and management of state assets within the meaning of the Law governing the management of state property. It shall examine the Agency's report twice a year and carry out other tasks as well. I have to admit that we've been struggling to decrypt to finally determine what this office is really doing except that it really coordinates someone, the question of how, with what obligations within which deadlines and thus harmonizes something that we can't decrypt, which means harmonize the criteria for managing state property, who proposes that they harmonize. This is therefore, perhaps not appropriate to say, more of the sale of fog than the creation of a part-round body of state administration that should now, in recession time, be newly established to carry out tasks of interest for the Republic of Croatia, and that we know that half of these transactions that are listed here are being carried out by other bodies, and that all of the state-owned assets are being done by the Agency for the Management of State Assets, which has remained and is accompanied by a coordinating and harmonising body that will do so. I have to admit, this is a simple lack of imagination by some circles, because nobody was skilled enough to make it work and write it in a better way that this part of the circle has some meaning and that it can guess what this central body is going to do. But it is very interesting and it is repeated in two paragraphs of this Article 27 that this State Office will always give opinions on the motion of resolution ministers, which may not and may not be written in this Law, and I think this is an inaccessible ill-written part of this body and that the Proposer should withdraw and try to write something that can be considered a real job of this Office. Unfortunately, we have tried to be afraid that it will be the cry of the few again, we have tried this and on the committees to point out the unsustainability of this descriptive detachment, but unfortunately, I believe that by definition this law must defend the Ministry of Administration and that it is probably at least wrong to describe the part of this body, this is some kind of system of desire of government members who would in this way want to have an alibi to form a new body and from these non-supervised ones and... the provisions gave themselves the legal right again of what we talked about without many criteria and without a transparent way to name all corporate administrations, to name supervisory committees, to name management presidents, and all of this other things seem to me to be fog-selling and selling rather than what is the essence of the work of this Central Body. What we have also said, we are opposed to the principle that the inspection operations of the central authorities are transferred to the regulatory authorities by more than that of the general rule, not the general principle, but that it applies in the case of some ministries, and in other cases we are strengthening inspection tasks, we are committed to strengthening inspection operations to be introduced into two degrees because they are now centralised and that the first stage of inspection operations is brought down where it can best be controlled and these are the offices of state administrations by county, and then the ministry has a secondary procedure of decision-making by appeal and thus we meet the criteria prescribed by the Constitution on the right to appeal, so we satisfy what the General Administrative Procedure Act says, in this way I think that we further violate one principle which should be maintained and that this two-degree decision is clearly established by these laws. There are also certain of course good things such as the institutionalization of the State Office for Croats outside Croatia, but because of these remarks that I made on behalf of the Club we will not support this Act, however, we appeal to the Proposer to well consider that such bodies as are now suggested by this Law have a sense to be established or if they are already established whether a real part-round can be written, designed and then given to those bodies that these jobs are being done. And in conclusion, thanks to everything you've been saying about rationalization and especially in the years of recession, except that you've established an additional 4 ministries, we're now expanding the state administration, but also the public administration by inventing new bodies, here I've tried to illustrate that their work is absolutely pointless and that in this way it can't even be presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3469	Thank you very much. The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian People's Party MP Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3470	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In this law some things are really just technical nature such as harmonising with existing laws. Here I think of the establishment or introduction into this law of the state office for Croatians outside Croatia which is quite logical about it there is nothing to talk about. In another part of this law, it is about changing the competence of individual institutions to transfer competences to some other institutions. The government estimates that this is a framework that will help to make the jobs for which it is responsible better and, of course, legitimately express here and the skepticism and irony, but it needs to wait and see if it will be effective. This is the basic meaning and, of course, the Government has the right to set up a framework that it considers best to enable its tasks and its responsibilities. Some of these changes have indications of some new policies such as the supervision of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, expert and pedagogical supervision that is transferred to the Education Agency which can, of course, be logical because the Agency for Education is an expert body, and the Ministry of Management and more a political body, and the same indication of a new policy of a new relationship is the transfer or abandonment of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports from inspection supervision, while staying only in control of the principle of maintaining independence, autonomy of higher education and higher education. So that's the principle that led the government when she decided to give up that inspection. Whether it will create some administrative difficulties will of course be seen. I say it's legitimate to talk about it in advance, but it would be good to wait at least for a while to see what the results of these measures will be. What I would particularly talk about in this law, and I think that these are the two most important things because it's two of the biggest problems, it's a matter of state property management. We know that state property is particularly property owned by the state is an untapped potential that for years can be said standing for decades and not used and enough just to remember and know in what state the Coopers, Briunis, state properties in the Vis and Lastova area are, and then we don't really have to talk about it anymore. And it is not an example and a case only with state property, so at least in the experience of the city of Zagreb, I can say it is managed with property owned by units of local and regional self-government. And it's logical to try to make a big change at one point. There are great potentials, it is a very valuable property, in very interesting and attractive areas especially these areas along the coast which for years, and it can be said for decades stands unused and it is logical that the government is trying to create such a system of governance that will allow this state property to be used in a more appropriate and efficient way. It is therefore logical to increase powers in the central State Office for State Property Management. Of course, there will be difficulties with coordination, but coordination is always the hardest part of the job, and we expect that with these powers that this state office will receive with the development of property policy guidelines, not only in terms of state ownership over real estate, but also in the management of those enterprises that are in state ownership and monitoring of achievements, and that there will be improvement and shifts in this important business, in this important and big problem that we did not know in the right way to answer for the last ten or fifteen years, and this is state property management in all its aspects. Another important issue I would like to highlight because I believe it is one of the most important issues of government policy at all, which is industrial policy, or development, which is concentrated here in part in the Ministry of Economy, of course with the influence of other bodies of the state administration or other ministries. We know that one way out of the crisis in which the state is in development is the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and that is why it is logical for the Ministry of Economy to concentrate the management of industrial policies, because that is the only way we can expect to find a way out of this crisis. And logically, two major industrial policy policies or two major industrial branches that are in difficulties are agricultural-industry, a food industry that is in great difficulty, which has great potential, which has great assumptions for work. We have therefore a great tradition, which is in difficulty for this industry and another branch that is in an even bigger position, which is the wood industry, the wood-processing industry to be transferred to the Ministry of Economy and one central control and coordination of these two policies is being carried out from that position. Of course, there remains the need for coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture, clearly which is in one part responsible for the production of raw materials and the part relating to the forestry policy, but it is logical that these two branches are united and placed in the jurisdiction of the coordination of the Ministry of Economy in order to trigger economic development and to stop both of these two mentioned industries from falling, especially present in the wood-processing industry where Croatia, as you know from day to day, from year to year, has been weakening the scale of its production and in fact this great wealth of potential of Croatian forests is increasingly and we are importing almost goods, which is absolutely something that needs to be changed and a trend that is absolutely not good in this sense for the past ten and fifteen years. Another important dimension equally important or more important than this with regard to the new competences of the Ministry of Economy, even if it was also his jurisdiction before, but it is now being put into the jurisdiction of the economy, which means that the government has seen this problem and is trying to create a basis for resolving this problem, which is to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. We know how we stand with exports relative to imports, we know that the coverage of imports with exports has been dropping for 10 years, moving below 50%. The last 10 years have fallen from 60 to 50 percent, especially in some branches the situation is alarming and it is logical that some measures, i.e. the main measure to go in this sense, are increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Here this is proposed in terms of the economy ministry's competence in two segments, which is the creation of sectoral strategies, not only of these two policies that were recently spoken of but of all relevant and important policies, industrial policies and the implementation of new technologies without which there can be no competitiveness of the Croatian economy. It is one segment that is explicitly cited and placed in the power of the Ministry of Economy. The second segment is also the creation of a programme for the use of the European Union funds as a function of increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, so again on the line of increasing competitiveness but using these new instruments that will be available to us and access, especially after joining the European Union. And of course, it should be expected that this dimension of the activities of the Ministry of Economy or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in coordination with other ministries, is successful because this is the only safe way out of the crisis and strengthening the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the structure itself, the organisation itself does not guarantee success in itself, but it can be a good basis on which then, with other policy measures, too much policy can be taken to ultimately achieve success. And therefore, expecting that these structural changes will follow those measures that will indeed lead to significant shifts in the competitiveness of the development of the Croatian economy and also on this first topic I was talking about, which is the management of state property, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3471	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP club, representative of Mr. Josip Leko, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration should be observed to ensure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is able to implement its programme and its plan established here in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the state administration is based on several principles, and one of these principles is called elasticity. This elasticity is precisely the one that must ensure the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this case that its programme on which it has won elections can be realised. And suddenly acquired the catastrophic visibility of some colleagues does not say anything about the law itself. That's what it says about them and their unrealised ambitions. Therefore, according to its programme and plan, the government has properly organised state administration and public administration. Dear colleagues and colleagues, can anyone say that Croatia does not need a ministry and regional development jobs when we realize for 20 years that Croatia is developing unevenly. Can anyone deny the need of such an organization? Doesn't the Ministry of Ecology keep the most valuable thing Croatia has, its comparative advantage. Waters, a land undestructed, a land of indestructible, natural beauty, rarity, the coast is what makes Croatia absolutely competitive in the European Union. The proposed law on amendments and additions and formation of ministries and other state administrative bodies should be observed from that aspect. And even the most important change that everyone points out here is the State Office for State Property Management is the logical consequence of the plan to manage state assets rationally, to coordinate throughout the administration from one center. Of course, that's hard, but my colleague, Radosh, has already said. Because it is difficult, and it should have been designed and ensured at one centre to standardise the criteria, to collect information, to analyse and to give government opinions, suggestions and others from there. I think that the State Office for State Property Management is necessary to observe, when some criticise that its role is not sufficiently defined, they forget that in the same law in the Transition and Final Provisions, the Government itself even says in an inappropriate way that it wants to amend the law on state property management. So the next step, the government itself asks that we in some way commit it to amending the Law on State Property Management, and all the dilemmas that can possibly be read here must be settled by the Law on State Property Management. Just to talk about the system and the thinking of this government, so to strengthen the role of what we have, what's left of us. In order for Croatia as a whole, the Croatian economy would be competitive. We need to make use of what we have in the development and insurance function of competitiveness. Well, as an example, I'll also suggest that in some ways the state administration is depolitized. Here's how. Isn't transfering expert surveillance to the Agency really a good example of depolitisation of the state administration? So, the expert body, the expert organisation will control one process. That's certainly commendable. The more the Croatian government knows the basic obligation, the more it does not touch that the state administration must be and remain and is the service of citizens, but services and economies. And not to owe, yet another important fact that everyone here points out is really worth raising to the level of the State Office for Relations of the Republic of Croatia. All those who would possibly suspect that it is the accumulation of institutions must know that it is the government's specific concern for Croats outside Croatia. We all know that there is a Ministry of Foreign Affairs which also sort of takes care of citizens, I repeat, about citizens, so those who have a passport from the Republic of Croatia abroad, about Croats who do not have a passport but are part of the national community, i.e. groups and Croats who are the constituent people in BiH. Those three so to say categories have different needs for care of the Republic of Croatia. Some are on a daily basis like a citizen when he goes to a foreign country and has problems. Who's gonna get that? The Consulate and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Embassy, the Embassy. And when it comes to groups of national smaller Croats in other countries, there is already a different need for these citizens of foreign countries, as well as the need of the Republic of Croatia to contact them. Such as a particularly specific need, which is the need for the Republic of Croatia's relationship with BiH. I stress to Croatian citizens because they are citizens of different nationalities who have a Croatian passport or have moved or have been there since. Finally, I think it is very important for the public to say that it is appropriate to give government support in an effort to organise state administration in an elastic way so that it can organise itself as soon as possible to implement its plan, its programme and strengthen Croatia before joining the EU. Of course the SDP club will vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3473	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. She's Mrs. Vishny Fortuna's representative. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Also an individual debate, representative of Mrs. Ana Lovrin. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Individually, Mr. Damir Rilje's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3474	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, deputy deputy minister. Here I would refer a little bit to this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and Other Central Authorities of the State Administration. In principle, of course, I support this bill by respecting the government's need for better efficiency and governance in all functions and efficiency within the state, of course not only functionally organisationally but also property. But I would briefly refer to state property, or property owned by the state, and in fact, it kind of intersects with local self - government units. So there's a large number of objects that are listed on, or prescribed on state property as former universal property, or I don't know the property of former committees, committees, or what's already been done, and then the automation of these same properties signed up to the Republic of Croatia. It's about properties that could be in the function of units of local self-government, and they've probably been in the composition of cities before, sort of working, and now rotting, failing, and mostly not in any function because they can't actually be used by local self-government units. It is usually about the following, of course there are several types of these properties, land and everything else that would actually come from different ministries' domains, but what would certainly be good if in some way they were assigned or allowed or in some way that in the function of local self-government units to create a new value from them, and I can tell you that these are very valuable properties especially in some areas, I believe that there are a lot of this in the whole country. Here's to your example I'll tell you that there are several types, especially... The real estate of the MORH that we are trying to bring into service on several occasions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some have already been given to the Ministry of General Administration, so we haven't been able to solve anything until today. As well as newly formed land, pour by the sea as a public maritime good, I hope here that the state's attorneys in their portfolio will somehow manage to give, in particular, where the spatially-planned regulation is already resolved because, in fact, the main goal of introducing these properties, land and values into function actually opens new jobs and creates a new value. So objects in protected cultural goods. We've got some of those, you know. Some even of those who have been law-abiding since '97. the years have been defined, and where the former political organisations, bodies and others have used and until today they are not solved, and of course it would be extremely good, especially in those areas where it represents a very high value and where it is a possibility for potential investment and where potential investors already exist. Of course, it can be decided by the state, but it is certainly not in the function of the state or the unit of local self-government. I won't talk about port areas and managing port areas, nature parks that are now in some way in the county domain, all of these are examples from the practices I'm talking about which local self-government units are currently not managed or managed by anyone, they are not in function creating any value. It is also important to note that there are properties that are partly owned by the state and partly owned by the local self-government unit, this should be resolved. Whatever. I cannot personally agree that most of this can be given into office, sold, leased and that the unit of local self-government is not the one that can actually participate in that part. So it's that at this point, we can say that catastres and landowners are not harmonised, but that the state of those properties that are not of national importance could be put into service by agreement or leave to the units of local self-government, municipalities and cities. In local self-government units, there are properties that are devastated and their value is reduced from day to day. A few such demands were at least from my personal experience sent to the authorities of local self-government but we never got the answers. I also have to point out the following, and since there are some functions that are extremely important for the functioning of local self-government units but are not in the competences of local self-government units, it would have been extremely good to do, and I hope that it will soon be put into operation. You know, this is about what's already working in Europe. These are, say, building inspections, in a way, I don't know which, that's going to suggest the Ministry on behalf of the government suggested it, but out there, it used to work the same way, but without that unit of local self-government can't function. Also a sanitary inspection, so a market inspection won't talk about traffic police, it doesn't exactly work in a way that would be fast, functional, and efficient, and that in the field of local self-government units could function easily and quickly unless there is what it is that I say very well through the relevant councils that are at the level of local self-government for this purpose organised, such as prevention councils or some other councils. It's your level of collective body that's not as fast and efficient as it is out there. So the function of decentralisation is what I'm talking about right now. Of course, at this point, it cannot possibly be that the first state must consolidate and in its own way establish the functioning of the ministries and other bodies of the central state administration, but I sincerely hope and believe that the status of units of local self-government will be respected when the time comes, and in particular I ask you for that property that is in some way owned by state property in the field of local self-government units is actually entered and in some way conditionally blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3475	Thank you very much. We have a replica on your exhibit, a respected representative of Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I've been listening to your presentations, and right now, you're talking about state property and the hope of getting rid of it all. Well, my colleague's not going to get rid of all of this, about this change and the addition of the law on structure and detour, we've been thinking about it for a long time, and I've known it in the same way, where it was this fiction and this kind of sentence, and they're proposing the same thing, and they're giving previous opinions and opinions, and then it's all the same... and we have the agency and the office, and then we're a little older remember Alan Ford, so this government reminds me when it gives some of these laws, and in Alan Ford they didn't know in what way some office would set up for nothing, so they had an office to research and waste time, and in reality they hired their friends who didn't do anything but to care about something, and in reality about nothing. So your hopes won't be answered, a year ago and something, the HDZ government finally set up an audio, and that was, of course, the results, however, we're back on not knowing how many more of these other bodies, four more ministries, and how many employees are people, signposts, who are to go to, you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3477	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3478	Dear colleagues, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Look, it's weird to me that you're telling me what you're saying right now, because I can't even count how many agencies there have been. You know, I just gave you an answer to what was up until now, I know that because I actually felt the problem of functioning, I don't know if you and what part of you were managing. Anyway, I'm telling you, let's just assume that you can count how many bosses there are, or I don't know which agencies and what not, I'm not going to do it right now, and I don't want to lead that line with you. I understand what you're trying to say, but this isn't about politicizing, it's about functioning. And as for that part, I wish it had been done before. But unfortunately it's not, so it has to be now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3479	Thank you very much. For the final word of the Deputy Minister of Administration, Mr. Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the promoters of thanks to clubs and everyone for the individual debate, she was expected to dissonant but pointed out the practical importance of this Law and the need of this Law and of course different opinions that it should look like. What's important is to say a few things, perhaps, about concept issues, which are issues of the State Office for State Property Management. I think as far as the strategy is concerned, it is clearly written by law that it is the State Office for the Management of State Property, that the implementation at the level of the Agency, that it is in the jurisdiction of the Agency and the cadastre of the Assets is there. And what really matters and what the debate suggests is that the concept of state property management is actually one abandoned concept that needs to be completed and presented in the next few months in this House of Higher Education, which the Proposer and committed himself through the legislative proposal. The second part of the comments was made to the State Public Procurement Office, and we truly acknowledge one small awkwardness but not the accuracy of the reasoning of Article 13 and what is in the text of this law is that for the central authorities of the State Administration, it is now for this public procurement that the State Office is competent to do so. The proposal is that it be also for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And yesterday's debates have drawn up practical solutions and a proposal to do so both for the Croatian Parliament and for the Office of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense the amendments that the Proposer is willing to accept in a different way. And what also brought out the debate and showed that this law is actually the beginning or continuation of work on modernising public administration as a single system, not as a system of state administration, local self-government and public administration itself. They have indicated the need for debates, and it seems to continue and it seems to be before this High House that such a concept will point to the need to redefine the future very nearly inspectional surveillance, to transfer this important instrument to the hands of the administration not from the Ministry to the Office of State Administration in the first degree and thus to do power which... and as close as possible to the citizens themselves. Also, the one who deals with the administration knows what the meaning of administrative supervision is and how abandoned this instrument is and how much it is necessary to raise it to one level of higher quality in order for it to act primarily preventively rather than repressively in the system of public administration. It pointed to one interrelationship between the authorities of the state administration and the agency to their disproportionateness in their work, but what is going on and what follows in any case follows after this and in the next period further reviewing the role of agencies and regulatory authorities in the Croatian legal system. In conclusion, what would remain if that were the case, what remains with the ministries? The ministries remain what the ministries are, in fact, modern ministries are forming and acting, and these are the creation of public policies and supervision of the implementation of these public policies. It seems to us that this law is, in fact, the introduction of the concept of what is to come and what is actually one natural one normal continuation of work on modernising the Croatian public administration and the entire public system. And the amendments we have here will be made during the vote. We have a little intervention that we have to do business then. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3481	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Now we will have respected colleagues and fellow MPs stop working, we will have a small break, meet here at 11.30 so that we can supplement the agenda and vote the laws we have processed and get the conditions for their vote. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 11:30. We move on to the next Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and Other Central Authorities of the State Administration, P.Z. Number 37. The debate on the text of the law is over. Amendments have been made to the Legislative Committee, representative of Peja Grbin. I ask that the proposer's representative declare himself. Amendment number one. The Committee on Legislatives shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3483	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3484	Thank you very much, it becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment number 1 of MPs of Peđa Grbin to Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3485	It is accepted but in the following statement: Article 12 behind the word "Government of the Republic of Croatia" points and the words "Croatian Parliament and Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia" are added. This amendment would practically come under the authority of the office and central public procurement by the government, both the Parliament and the Office of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3486	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3487	I accept your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3488	Thank you very much. We're going to amendment number two of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3489	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3490	Thank you very much. We're going to Amendment number three of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3491	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3492	Thank you very much. We're going to Amendment number four of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3493	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-17-0.u3494	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the vote on amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft law with the amendments adopted. The adoption of the Law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you to step in and plead with me on the bill's proposal. We can get a score. Thank you very much. I find the law passed by 83 votes for, five abstentions and 34 votes against. Thank you very much. That's what we've done today's work. We will continue Monday at 9:30 on the agenda of the Republic of Croatia's 2012 Budget. Have a nice weekend, get ready, we're waiting for a good debate. Thank you very much.
