ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3495	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, vice-president and members of the government, and I think everyone or almost everyone is here. We continue to work towards the established agenda. - Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and 2014 projections, - Proposed financial plans for 2012 and 2014 for non-financial users and projections for 2013 and 2014: a/ Croatian waters b/Fund for environmental protection and energy efficiency c/ Croatian roads d/ State agencies for the provision of savings roles and recovery of banks e/ Agency for the management of state assets, - Proposal for the State Budget and financial plans of extra-financial users for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014 – consolidated, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 174 and 175. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the home Board on Finance and the state budget and by other numerous working bodies. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law according to which any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections shall not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. During the debate on the proposal for a state budget and projection, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal for a state budget and projection may be adopted provided that at the same time it is proposed to reduce other expenditure and expenditure in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. It is therefore in accordance with Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Budget law. In this regard, I warn that only those amendments submitted under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for the amendment is until the debate is over, which I hope we will end today. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines that amendments and budgets in general cannot be voted upon before three days of the day of the debate can elapse. That means if we finish today by 24 hours that Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday are deadlines for a statement on the amendments, then we could go towards the adopted budget on Friday. I ask the Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, to explain the draft budget. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3496	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have half an hour as promoters. The first part of 15 minutes will be used by me, the rest of the finance minister. Of course we'll be here during the club debate because it's simply our obligation out of respect for all those who have something to say, and certainly have something to say. So I'm starting with key contained and political messages at least as I do and as my government sees them. It's very simple. You have a budget ahead of you, you've seen it, you have experience, it's not your first time. It's the policy of the decision we're going to make. The old one doesn't work, that model's exhausted. New, new is unknown, challenging, cloudy sometimes, not clear. It is up to us to offer certain changes within the framework of a possible change, a new model that we believe will be better and will contribute to Croatian growth, will consolidate public finances and will bring Croatia into a better position not against international creditors, but towards Croatia and our citizens. Of course, everyone always says that, of course, everyone always wants to say and present to the fact that the budget is both social and developmental. He's actually when you look and he can't be anything but social and developmental, the third one's gone. The question is how social it is, how advanced it is, how declarative it is, and how real it is, how much it gives some kind of medium-term perspective, and that's what we're talking about here. Not about what effect this measure will have tomorrow and in a month, but about what it will be in a year, in two years and three years. The crisis that has rocked Europe and the world hasn't hit everyone in the same way. Not everyone suffered the same way, not everyone had the same problems in 2009 or today. Countries that stand better today are more resilient, which are stronger, which are more competitive, these countries began with changes years ago, not in 2009, not after they bankrupted Lethman Brothers in 2001, 2002. Germany, German reforms began early last decade. These aren't popular reforms, they don't win elections. The ruling Social Democratic Party then barely managed to preserve its status somehow and form an electoral coalition with conservatives with the Christian-Democratic Party. Today, the results of this policy are seen. Then she was not politically popular and liberal, neoliberal, ultraliberal Western world she looked at with a mockery and underestimation of it. I can list a few more examples of several countries in our environment in Austria, the Netherlands, which were previously deeply reformed countries. Today, these countries have the lowest unemployment rate in the overall working population, working age population. Today, these countries have a convincingly lowest percentage of the unemployed among young people between 18 and 30 years of life in a rough way. That's not an accident, these aren't the results of the adjusted measures two years ago, it started ten years ago. It is no accident that these countries have 8% of youth unemployment, as it is not by chance that other countries have up to 50%. There's nothing overnight. And this is the new Croatian paradigm, where we are no great inventors, innovators and do not take any great ideological credit. It's just something we have to try at this point. Others before us have tried to do so with determination, some less determined. Let's see what Europe looks like today. Up until five years ago, they all lived great, they had wasteful consumer habits, more or less high deficits than two, three years ago, and there was never a clearer difference between those who work by the rules, who know what they want and who are reform-oriented and those who aren't. And here I will no longer negatively single out any countries because we are on the verge of joining the EU. And if we hadn't, it wouldn't have been the right thing to do. But look how different models are and how the EU is not a panacea for success, to be an excuse for failure. That's what I've been saying in this Parliament in the Croatian Parliament for several years now, it's absolutely clear now. It is up to us to define ourselves and choose the direction we want to go, I say the old can't and I believe that it is clear to everyone in the Croatian public, and new is different. We said, we promised, that in the changes that we bring, we would make sure that the tax burden does not grow, that the total tax burden does not grow. We just need to see how the model that we are proposing will work in practice, which we have proposed with changes to the tax laws adopted by the Parliament last week, as well as with this 2012 budget. We believe we will. We believe that by discharging the economy through several measures we have proposed, which have been adopted here, while preserving the revenue side of the budget to what we consider necessary, that we will achieve this effect and that we will launch Croatia. The spending side was supposed to be reduced for the first time. This reduction is not drastic, but the key question where to draw the line in the reduction, in cutting budget expenditures, is the question that kills everyone today in Europe. We also see after 2009 that some countries continued to have a very high budget deficit. Some of them are not members of the euro area at all, some have been very radically adapted to making their own choices, under pressure from Brussels and international credit and financial institutions. The results are different. Some have regained growth, and some cannot get out of the spiral recession, I would even say depression. When we reduce expenditures in the budget which, anyway, practically affects every other Croatian kuna, which is all-present, which is all-potent, then we must give an answer to the question, the key question where is the border. Where the cutting limit after which Croatia is pushed into depression, after which the budget which must have a development role ceases to be what it should be and becomes only one ordinary cashier, and the cashier is not the same as the budget. Mild is one place where you physically store something that is valuable, money, unlike vaults where other valuables can be. So that cashier's the saddest thing to do when he's just a cashier. When it's in development function, then it's an account, then it's some kind of tool to invest and finance real things. There's no magic wand. We believe that exactly this, that point where saving makes sense at the same time that point where you're going to see the development results. I'll make a few more points here. We didn't want to, and I don't think we've been able to hit any of the stakeholders. The budget is huge, it recognizes many, regions, individuals, stakeholders, Czechs, agricultural companies, I would say even with legitimate law because many have learned that. You can't blame people if they use certain rights that are given to them for granted. Those habits need to be changed. We have to change our habits. We are here in the Parliament, I will tell me although we are no longer formally members of the Parliament but we are all essentially one wider body, we have abolished the law or privileged conditions under which government officials retire. But that fiscally doesn't mean anything, it's a little bit, it's just our message that we can't do it anymore. When we cut the cost side of the budget, then we send a message that it can't go back to the way it was. In the first two years of the crisis, Croatia simply couldn't decide to cut budget expenditure. Some countries initially recognized it as a great risk and made a turn, big turns. Some countries, or rather some societies, some political communities, are not ready for this day or day, and excuses for their own problems, which they are mostly looking for elsewhere. I see Croatia in the middle, but when I say it in the middle it doesn't mean I see them in some mediocre toad, but in the middle of reason and in the middle of the right choices. Neither radical cutting nor refusing to face reality, that in this way we cannot lead the country further, that we are dangerously approaching some generally accepted thresholds and standards of acceptable debt and public and general debt and debt households and that we simply have to say okay. So it went for a while, we reached a certain level of well-being and a national product. Croatia is a medium-developed country, unfortunately too long to preserve it, only to preserve it in the next few years must we reverse the course. For something more, it will take a lot more courage and vision. I believe this government will have it, that it already has, but what we're doing right now is measures that don't cheer us up. So VAT is increased, you all know that and there will be criticism. Well, no one's ever clapped any taxes, that's logical. But let's see what's on the other side, on the other hand are attempts to dispel entrepreneurship. They're honest, well-intentioned, dissuade because it's not enough to be honest and well-intentioned, it's often common naiveness. And we believe that it will be an incentive for those who want to work and create in this country in Croatia. Because no matter how many colleagues and colleagues we save, no matter how much we show some kind of sovereignty towards international financial centres and our guarantee and their guarantee is just growth. It's the only guarantee that the debts we've accumulated for years we'll be able to repay, it's the only guarantee of security. So without growth, without new jobs, without saying here almost 2 million employees of Croatian citizens, working active, activated, we have nothing to talk about. And that's exactly what you see as a clear and clear tear which countries are successful. It's always in correlation with the level of general employment. People work, people work in the northern states. They may work part-time, find different models, hire women by different employment models, but they're all active, so everyone in some way contributes. It's the only way to be well-being. There is no modern history of liberal democracies any other way to progress, to the status of a highly developed country. Croatia has been a middle income country for 40 years. It took us a few decades to reach that level and since then we've been stagnating, not moving from place. There was a war, a war was a terrible thing, and basically some kind of justifiable excuse. But the war ended and other states had a communist dictatorship that lasted for decades. They've turned the course, they're going the other way, they're changing, and it's the secret of evolution, of changing. It is not the strongest, the hardest, the ones with the biggest muscles that succeed, but the ones that are the most intelligent, the most adaptable and, of course, the ones that play according to the regulated rules of Croatia we want. An orderly state, a country where you'll know what reward comes if you follow the rules, but what punishment comes if you don't follow them. I'll look back here and some current political events that are important. Let's just say protesting one part of the farmer and the milkman is an important thing. We don't underestimate them. They can be politically motivated, but it's not criminal. Some are politically motivated. They're not anti-states. But on this particular example, I want to show that paradigm change. The European Union for starters I know, I think I know how hard it is to make food, how hard it is to get up every day, to be around treasure, to be on a dairy farm. I think I know, I think because I'm part of a family that's difficult, out of a poor, passive neighborhood. I remember that time. My grandfather was such a man. However, the European Union has largely funded its producers for decades in fact in order to preserve the existing level of production and produce less, in order to preserve the territory, in order to preserve the quality of the soil. It's where the hyperproduction works. We don't make enough food in Croatia. We're running out of food. We're always complaining about importing too much, importing too much. Among other things, because we don't produce it enough. Anyway, first of all, that's why no one's to blame for it. It's our fault. We have a system of incentives that's relatively treasonous. What are the results of this incentive system? Bigger food production? No, I don't. Equal food production, practically equal. So we have to explain these things to ourselves. No one here is against farmers, but we are for clean bills, and I'm not saying anyone's cheating. People just use their legal rights. It's all in the law. Are those good laws? That's what I want everyone's contribution to the left and right center, to the right, whatever we call ourselves. I think we can at least achieve some kind of understanding on these things. By entering the European Union, things will be slightly different because we will be able to rely on how things are now on generous incentives and funds based on all the basics Brussels is giving. The question is how long and it will last and these things change. It's not the same as it was 30 years ago. But here I want to stress the following. If we encourage something for billions, if we encourage one difficult and relatively uncertain business such as agriculture, but business business, then we have to explain to everyone else in Croatia, and these are millions of people what we finance and with which return, which is the benefit of it. What's the point of incentives? If you give someone an incentive in industry, you see a factory, you see production, you see exports, you see a contribution to the balance of payments if it's exported. What do we see here? Obviously, we need to talk about it. So human support isn't easy to be in the cold right now. People who are out looking for their rights, but it's part of a wider story about the community we live in and we finance in a rather inefficient way and it's not since yesterday and it's not from HDZ. But I think the last eight years have been about changing things, and it hasn't changed them, and now we're where we are. The figures will be discussed by the Minister of Finance. You know how much the budget is actually cut. Now we can explain whether it's $3.4 billion or $4 billion, but it's a real cost reduction. Someone's going to have a smaller item. We don't think it's working without that. We're ready to listen to everything and we'll listen to everything. I here, so today I'm going to listen to the debates of all clubs, see if there are any proposals that fit what we've included as amendments, of course, by sticking to these numerical parameters that the laws prescribe. But also listening carefully to the nature of the proposal, so not only the number of zeros behind the proposal. I will beg you here to resist the classical political pain to represent your narrow community with this budget, to avoid this parochial approach to please our neighbours, friends and relatives. Because such amendments don't usually pass. Let's try to look at the bigger thing. It's the only way to get Croatia out of the crisis. It won't be easy, it won't be easy, it'll be very hard. If it was easy, we'd find everyone out already. It's not easy. Great Britain still has, now I mention it still has a budget deficit of 9%. He's not a member of the euro zone. It's an enormous deficit, three years after the crisis began. No results. The growth was on its way, so he fell again. Countries that are successful are not successful because of intervention measures, but because of far-sighted and smartness, so if you want bold policies seven, eight or ten years ago. She was rarely rewarded in the elections, but today the countries are stronger. This is all we want – stronger Croatia that will be independent, who will not talk to anyone who needs to talk to them, but who will not shake and will not be insecure about themselves when the representatives of international financial institutions and rating agencies come to her. To talk yes, but not to depend on it anymore, and how much of Croatia's rating is important after the first agency that they have shown. But what we want tomorrow to be is irrelevant, to say more or less what they want, to listen to them, but also to be ourselves more masters of our own destiny and to take measures on our own completely autonomously. Fiscal sovereignty for the place is all sovereignty. If you are the master of your register, or more valuable of your accounts, if you know how to master them, if you know how to practice and create, which is more of a phase, then you are independent and then it becomes much less important whether there are 4 million, 5 or 50. That's our goal. So a fiscally sovereign country, a country that will not be dependent in the European Union on foreign aid, a country that will develop independently. But that's where we have to go and change things. This budget, colleagues and colleagues, that very change. It's not ideal. We'll listen to your suggestions and criticism, but in the end, we'll have to make a decision because politics is primarily about decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3497	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic. Now, I would like to ask Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic to continue to present Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3498	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. A few words on three of the most important figures on this budget, so let's start with the revenues that are moving for 2012. About 109 billion kuna. It remains questionable whether it is possible to make such revenues in view of the various assessments that talk about recession in our environment and the danger of having such a fall in economic activity in Croatia as well. So just to be able to assess the reality of 109 billion that basic characteristic of these revenues, they grow about 600 million kuna compared to last year's plan, which is the greater share of revenue from Europe's budget, i.e. from European funds. So, in itself, the growth that we were planning and which is real and at the same time it was slightly increased compared to the 2011 plan because the achievement of 2011, which means that some significant increase compared to the realization last year and these regular 600 million revenues is not essentially revenue growth in 2012. This is why we also consider this growth as a conservative approach because at the same time we have the inflation we expect from around 2.4%. At the same time, the government also planned economic growth. And there are important differences when we talk about the projections of macro-economicists in the country and outside the country in relation to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is also necessary to implement nominal cuts in national expenditures that are being taken into account by the Fiscal Responsibility Act in order to reduce the total deficits. The government's proposal was to fight for investment at the same time, to fight for Croatia to launch any investment activity so that it could turn to possible and potential economic growth. And that's why the government went 0.8% of economic growth. So, the government's behavioral change we tried to assess ourselves, the rest of us are still assessing quite, quite cautiously, whether it's real. But in what area is economic growth sought? In state investments. The government's assessment that all ministries must launch mechanisms to invest through state-owned companies in energy, transport, tourism, regional development, and in particular in the development of municipal infrastructure at local and regional self-government level. The government therefore tasks all ministers and all competent ministries to access the serious management of Croatia's assets with the assessment that this year should produce a result. At its session, the government also made it clear that the projections of investment by dynamics and by investment structure will be known to everyone so that they can monitor the reality of economic growth. Which is not expected, these are the responsible obligations of the entire government and the competent ministries to launch and achieve such development. Therefore, by expecting state investment by expecting this inflation, as you can see, we do not significantly produce income growth, and therefore we estimate that this is what is said as a conservative approach. At the same time, the characteristics of these revenues are that taxes have become more burdensome with consumption and that this greater burden of consumption through the increased VAT has not been introduced into the state budget, but we have already directed towards the spread of the Croatian economy and I would say social policy towards the most vulnerable groups of citizens. Therefore, we are aware that the Croatian economy will not accept an invitation to launch private, private investments unless there are battles for its competitiveness. The battle for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy is the decommissioning of the Croatian economy. And that's why the characteristic of our incomes is the burden of spending, of discharging the Croatian economy. And not only through a contribution to health insurance that two indices... are smaller but simply with a policy of reducing the burden on profit tax if it goes towards investment with additional charges for some non-taxable incomes such as forests, water and memorial rents. But at the same time, the economy is burdened with additional tax burdens in case it goes to dividends, in case it starts with increased expenditure on personal cars and for representation. However, by assessing that the increase in the burden of consumption will have negative effects on the standard of citizens, the Government has tried to find some compensation, which is why we introduce inter-steps for some food goods that are otherwise used daily, such as oil, fats, diet, sugar and, of course, one of the communal activities that we could coordinate with the EU, which is consumption of drinking water. At the same time, we estimated that it was necessary to change the non-taxable part of the income of workers and pensioners, which is why we increased from a thousand 800 to 2200 in employees, the non-taxable part, and from 3200 to 3400 in pensioners the untaxable part. It is essential that these tax changes, based on VAT, are directed towards social categories and towards the economy. We estimate that this part is important and that something improves the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia in the economic sector, that this competitiveness means the possibility of being more successful on the Croatian market, so we can reduce imports, at the same time that we are able to simply reduce the losses on exports of products and services from the Republic of Croatia. It is also very important to point out that these state-owned investments do not mean greater exports than above all lower imports. Smaller imports of electricity simply increase the competitiveness of Croatian ports, meaning higher offers on the Croatian bed market in the tourist season. Therefore, strengthening Croatia on the domestic market and reducing dependence on imports. So much for that revenue side. Something about expenditure, the fiscal responsibility law itself obliges the government to do something on the expenditure side. The government decided to do more than we are required by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, so it went to a nominal cutting of individual expenditures. That's why we have 4 billion cut nominal expenditures in this budget. This up to 3.4 is again the difference between income and expenditure based on European funds. And then a few words, and what is that 4 billion? It is 2 billion on the expenditures for the mass of salaries, it is subsidies around a billion and 200 per old methodology, which is agriculture and railways for a simple reason if you follow AZTN's report on how to use incentives in Croatia you will see that these are subsidies that do not give any positive effect and which system we need to change. These are part of the cost reduction and these are material costs in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. There is always a question of how realistic this is, we will give it real, and that is why the government has organised a series of control mechanisms, a change in the organisation of the state administration, so that responsibility for the items that you have before you are controlled above all in the ministries that must be implemented but also in control mechanisms through the Ministry of Finance that there is simply no excess and that the actual estimated expenditures are real. And a few more words about the deficit. As you can see, the deficit is below 10 billion, which means 5 billion kunas less than that of 2011. The deficit that binds us to new responsibilities is the reason that the government has made it very clear that we want to go to the privatisation of certain state-owned companies so as not to demand the full amount of deficits through credit responsibilities, but that with our own assets we can reduce that deficit. Here's so much about these three important numbers so I'll talk to you later... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3499	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Linic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr. Representative Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3500	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the 3rd session held on 15 February 2012, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for the State Budget for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament in an act of 13 February 2012. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections together with the relevant acts as a parent body. The opening statement we had on the board, which you had today from the prime minister and the finance minister, I will not, of course, repeat, but I will present to you certain opinions, remarks and proposals that took place at the debate in the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The opinion has been expressed that despite well-defined guidelines, such a complex budget will not be strong enough through restrictions and fiscal consolidation to boost economic activity. The reduction of the deficits of this budget depends on the reduction of expenditure. The planned reduction of expenditure of €3.5 billion will not be enough to achieve the objectives set, and this specifically refers to interest which we will be forced to pay due to the orderly service of our commitments to a new debt with more interest. This year, pension adjustments to the consumer price index and gross wages are coming back, and an estimated 1% pension increase of about 30 million kuna is due monthly. The total amount of pension funds in 2013 will increase by €69.1 million. Also, according to the opinion, there are insufficient amounts of planned compensation for employees, for the balancing and decentralisation fund, as well as for shipbuilding guarantees. One of the comments was that the expenditure side of this budget was not provided by means of collective agreements. And finally, Croatia's opinion has been voiced for four years, it has been pointed out that our problem is a poor economic structure that generates a decline in employment. The past period lacked structural reforms, particularly in the state administration, health and pension systems. In addition, state property over the past 20 years, which has not yet been listed in full, has been misrepresented as evidence of the fact that 250 thousand hectares of agricultural land are not operational. Such a situation needs to be changed, so in its programme, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set a key objective of economic policy to establish a knowledge-based economy and export-oriented economy that will increase and boost the growth of added value and employment, respecting the principles of social cohesion. It also provides for this budget, which is expected to be part of the recovery of the Croatian economy in the coming period and to be part of the real growth of the gross domestic product in 2012 of 0.8%, in 2013. 1.5% and 2.5% in 2014. In particular, it is pointed out that expenditure and budget deficits over the past years have been too high and that it was necessary for this budget to change this trend in such a way as to try to significantly reduce budget spending and deficits for the first time. Such a budget approach came to the understanding and support of the majority of the public. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to vote for, 8 votes in favour and 4 votes against, to the Croatian Parliament to propose the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and 2014 projections for 2013 and 2014 as well as the following decisions: Decisions on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 Projections, Decisions on granting consent to the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014, Decisions on the granting of consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads for 2012 and 2014 and the Decisions on the granting of consent to the 2013 and 2014 financial management of the Agency for the 2012 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3501	Thank you. On behalf of other working bodies? On behalf of the working body of Mrs. Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3502	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the second session held on 16. In February 2012, the proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2012 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 13 February 2012. The Committee considered the proposal of the state budget as an interested working body. In the debate, the Committee discussed those parts of the proposal of the State budget relating to the financing of programmes and activities aimed at achieving the rights of national minorities and protection and the promotion of human rights, starting from its section of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In this regard, the members of the Committees of the Representatives of the Office of the Ombudsman and the Special Advocates who participated in the Committee's work asked for further clarifications and presented these findings and proposals. In the case of funds channelled to national minorities through the Government of the Republic of Croatia's National Minorities Office, the comparison of the amounts planned for 2011 and those planned for 2012 has been difficult due to the institutional changes that occurred in the meantime. Namely, the new Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia "National Journal" No. 150/11 has been joined by the Office for National Minorities and the Office for Human Rights in a single government body called the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities. As a result of this organisational change, some budget items have been overlapped, making it difficult to compare the amounts provided by these institutions for the needs of national minorities. One part of the funding in the draft state budget is given in the item bearing the designation of the Office for National Minorities and one part in the item marked by the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities. In view of the fact that, in the framework of the Office, the funds are mostly provided for programmes intended for the Roma national minority, the representative of this minority has requested a more precise explanation of whether the planned funds for 2012 are larger, smaller or the same compared to last year. The same explanation has also been requested for funds provided under the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for programmes for the education and education of children of national minorities, and for specific funds which are provided to students and students under the National Programme for Roma and Action Plan. Then to assist in continuing and encouraging preschool education of Roma national minorities, as well as for education programmes of adult members of the Roma national minority for whom a great interest has been expressed. There is also a question of the reasons for the reduction of funds for Croatian teaching abroad and for the education of children of Croatian citizens abroad, and why no funds are provided for the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia whose establishment is foreseen by the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It has also been concluded that the draft budget aims to protect and promote human rights and the development of civil society and NGOs makes significant differences between the financed programme holders. A clarification of the significant increase in funding for individual programme holders in the field of protection and promotion of human rights, as well as the development of civil society and NGOs has been requested. It was also established that the government's Office for Associations planned an increase of 159.4% and for the National Foundation for Civil Society Development 139.6% compared to 2011. The funds for the Ombudsman's Office are estimated at 10,538,450 kuna or 12% more than in 2011. In particular, it is pointed out that for the first time in the budget, funds were provided for the implementation of the obligations of the Advocate General resulting from his law set out roles in the performance of the national preventive mechanism. It was warned, however, that the draft budget did not fully resolve the financing of the Centre for Human Rights. The center according to the new Law on the Ombudsman, National No. 125/11, with 1 July of this year, was to be attached to the Ombudsman's Office, and the draft budget provides for its funding only until that date. Since the recent Constitutional Court decision has put an end to the law, the financing of the mentioned centre remains open after 1. July 2012. The funds for other attorneys' offices have been reduced. The Ombudsman for children 6.5%, gender equality attorney 4.2%, and lawyers for people with disabilities by 6.4%, which will make it significantly more difficult for them to function. In view of the fact that according to the abovementioned new Law on the Ombudsman, it was envisaged that the tasks of the special Ombudsman should be transferred to the responsibilities of the Ombudsman in their view that this would make it significantly more difficult for the exercise and protection of the rights of the most vulnerable categories of the population, whose protection and specific problems have led to specific defences. As regards persons with disabilities, it has been warned that several items of the budget provide for a reduction of funds. Given that the government has promised not to reduce the protection of the most sensitive categories of population, it has been requested that during the parliamentary debate on the draft budget, the Proposer further explains how the problem intends to be solved. The debate also pointed to a significant reduction in funds intended for the purpose of providing for exiles, returnees and refugees. Why the funds are reduced by 20.1% to help rebuild houses in the first and third categories is 17.6% and for reconstruction in the war-damaged housing units the funds would be reduced by 18.4%. For residential care outside PPDS 20.6% and for housing care on PPDS, the reduction is 24%. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by a majority vote, 9 votes for and 2 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3503	Thank you very much. Now, my colleagues and colleagues would like to ask you a question. Since 68 representatives of the debate and 7 representatives of the clubs have been reported, it is somewhere more than 13 hours without replication and correction of incorrect allegations. And now we have 14 working bodies that have been considering the draft budget and 2 that would read the representatives of this report, so others can come forward. I suggest that since you have a report ahead of you, but I do not deny the right of business that these two reports from the two representatives of the board are not read here, and that only depends on the representative of the board. Do you agree? No, I don't. Mr. Representative Darko Milinović on behalf of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3504	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Croatian Prime Minister, Vice President, Ministers. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament discussed on the 1st session held on 16 February 2012 the proposal for a State Budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2012. Year with projections for 2013 and 2014 delivered to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 13 February 2012. The Committee discussed that proposal as an interested working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the introduction of the motions in the debate, the committee members stressed the expectations that uniting all social policies into one ministry would positively reflect their effectiveness and availability. It has been pointed out that a large number of abuses of social benefits can be prevented by finally reviving the implementation of the OIB and stressing that further rationalisation is imperative. Speaking about young people, the need for preventive programmes implemented and planned and continued to be implemented in order to improve the quality and life of young people is highlighted. The funds to be allocated to associations must be targeted at the implementation of quality projects and programmes. Although the proponent pointed out in the opening statements that the proposal for this budget is based on an economic growth of 0.8%, skepticism about achieving this goal has been expressed in view of the announcements of some independent economic analysts and leading bankers that predict zero and even economic downturn. Since the social policy budget is planning 60 million kuna less than in the last year, and according to the 2013 and 2014 projections it will not reach last year's level. And given Croatia's social picture and forecasts for 2013 and 2014, the dissatisfaction has been shown by increasing the items of administration and governance by nearly 50 million kuna, and in fact, it opposes the government's declared objective, and we have also heard from the finance minister about the reduction of the wage mass by 2 billion kuna. In order to provide assistance to the users of the system, it is necessary to implement the measures launched and envisaged by the ongoing reform of social care, and to highlight the continuation of information, the establishment of a single body of art, the obligation to participate in the work for the public well-being of unemployed and workable persons, as well as a whole series of other activities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and the projections for 2013 and 2014 following a vote of 5 votes in favour, 5 votes against did not get the necessary majority, and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament does not propose the adoption of the State Budget for 2012 and the projections for 2013 and 2014 in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3505	Thank you very much, counsel. On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3506	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. At its 1st session held on 16 February 2012, the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for the State Budget for 2012 and the projections for 2013 and 2014 which was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by act of 13 February 2012. The Committee discussed that proposal as an interested working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In part of the budget providing funds for the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families of military and civilian disabled people, and veterans of war. The national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 is planned for revenue of HRK 108.6 billion and kuna 108.9 billion respectively when the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets are added. And the expenditures of $117.1 billion, i.e. kuna 118.8 billion, when the costs for the acquisition of non-financial assets are added, which means that the 2012 budget deficit is planned at $9.9 billion. The expenditure is reduced by € 3.4 billion mainly in the expenditure positions for employees, material expenditures, and subsidies. Funds aimed at achieving the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, civil and military disabled, and war veterans are planned at the position of the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, i.e. HZMO, Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, and Ministry of Health. At the defence ministry's position, the planned funding of $1,78 million is higher by 0.7% compared to last year's planned one. The funds intended for the care of Croatian defenders are planned to amount to 926.1 million kuna, which is an increase of 1.4% compared to last year. In the position of concern for the increase compared to last year, one-time rights are recorded by 34.1% to 58.5 million kuna. Rehabilitation of Croatian military disabled in hospitals by 14.3% on 400 thousand kuna. The funds for associations stemming from the Homeland War are 11% to 16.3 million kuna, while the reduction records permanent rights by 0.8% to 735 million kuna. Defence funds from 3.6% to 21.8 million kuna. The funds for orthopaedic and other medical aids for 21.5% per 1.5 million kuna. The funds for the national programme of psychosocial and health assistance to participants and victims of the Homeland War for 6.8% on 10.8 million kuna. The housing funds for 0.9% per 33 million kuna, for exhumation and identification and burial of victims from the Homeland War, are intended for 7 million kuna. The Vukovar Memorial cemetery with 2.55 million kuna is up 17.7%. Marking the site of mass graves from the Homeland War 1.4 million kuna, an increase of 1.6%. And for the first time, 1.8 million kunas were planned for research, editing and maintenance of World War II military cemetery and postwar period. For the first time, in the position of the Ministry of Defence and the planned funds are intended for the civilian disabled of the Homeland War of 33.97 million kuna, an increase of 2.1%, as well as participants and victims of World War II and revenue of 201.7 million kuna, this is a reduction of 3.4%. Within the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, pensioners' pensions of 4 billion 880 million kuna were planned at the position of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is an increase of 0.4%. At the position of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, funds were planned for the housing of persons with disabilities from the Homeland War through the construction and purchase of apartments and houses amounting to 16.9 million kuna, down from 61.5% last year's planned funds. Within the Ministry of Health, 37 million kunas were planned for defence benefits, i.e. the amount equivalent to last year's. The debate mainly highlights the satisfaction of the planned funds in the division of the Ministry of Defence, which is slightly increased and given the reduction of expenditure in the divisions of other ministries and in the overall budget, the vast majority of the funding is conditional upon laws and other regulations. At ministry level, 4 programmes, 22 activities and 4 projects are planned. It is realistic to expect their successful realization, and the emphasis will be placed on... health care and employment of Croatian defenders and members of their families. [[You don't understand.]] A significant reduction in housing funds at the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, which ensures the construction and purchase of apartments and houses by 61.5%, will significantly slow down the care of 13138 Croatian military disabled persons from the Homeland War, mostly a lower percentage of the damage to the organism because the intended funds are not enough to complete the projects launched. This problem will be addressed through co-operation with local self-government units. The opinion has been expressed that there has been an increase in funds at the ministry's level due to the inclusion of the position of care for the civilian with disabilities of the Homeland War and the military disabled of World War II which, in the opinion of some members of the Committee, should not be within the Defence Ministry. The reason for their inclusion is the fact that the adoption of the first Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in '94, the law and procedure for the exercise of rights, was prescribed by the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities War, and was then maintained almost the same procedure and rules for the exercise of law. The reduction of staff in the ministry will be carried out in a way to cancel operating contracts with all those concerned with psychosocial assistance and medical commissions. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections, as well as the decisions to be followed by the budget for all budgetary users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3507	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. I announce that there are eight registered club representatives. The first word has a Mr. MP and SDP club president Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3508	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia needs a new direction, a direction that will reverse the trend, a negative trend that will show the government's seriousness in serious times, a direction that will show the government's responsibility to both citizens and to the economy and to our children, as well as to our pensioners as well as to the international financial institutions. For years, responsibility for citizens who have shown by example that they cannot live in a way that is not earned and that modesty is a desirable virtue. Responsibilities towards an economy that has been stagnant for three years by squabbling in huge indifference, according to an economy with which the state was not a partner but an aga that only appeases its harractor. The serious government is obliged to show responsibility to our children whose account the state has lived on in recent years, according to our parents who have worked hard and welcomed a pension that is hard to live with today. And especially responsibility to our creditors, foreign, domestic financial institutions that without much emotion seek their own because irresponsible policy without direction has led this country to an edge that has only aimlessly been told that we are on our way out of the crisis. For the past eight years, we've only heard about the developmental and thrifty budget. We were assured that 87% of the budget was set and that it could not be saved nor lip and was saved on aromatized water. All that time the economy was nibbled, people were fired, the turns were gone, the indifference was growing. The only solution we were offered was our duty, our duty and our duty. We also heard about new investments, we also heard about the economic recovery programme, unfortunately we just listened. Lack of political will, lack of determination, and if you want and knowledge marked the budgets of the past 8 years, especially the past 3 years when the crisis has already hit Croatia. The Kukuriku coalition parties warned of a lack of will, but also promised a turn. First through guidelines and then through a concrete draft budget and a package of measures intended primarily for the economy, this government shows that there are qualities that so lacked predecessors, political will and determination. The philosophy of the budget is changing, and this House first has a proposal for a state budget that does not increase but significantly decreases. The budget is worth 4 billion kuna in nominal amount, but this savings is realistic in relation to including the impact of inflation of as much as 7 billion kuna. Some will say that they are not cutting enough, but within only 2 months of taking responsibility for the country's management, this government has done only at this time possible, and in order to try to preserve Croatia's financial sustainability and stability in order to start a sustainable and stable society on a healthy basis. While others were looking for a way to the road, it seems a good course ahead of us, ordering those who decide on our rating. Others decide because we have brought ourselves into this situation, more specifically brought us by a government that only owed us while she sought the aforementioned route. We are impressed by the efforts of the new Croatian government to edit the budget and cut spending by reducing the debt orientation for consumption, the World Bank's Director for Central Europe and the Baltic countries said, but he also noted that the balance between cutting consumption and security is important so that growth can come with cutting. Guidelines are a step in the right direction, the IMF said, noting that it expects additional cuts just like the first of the three credit agencies... which also speaks of a good direction and stresses, I quote: such a direction clearly distinguishes from the moves of the former governments and sends a message that the current system of borrowing is not sustainable. [[You don't understand.]] So it can't be spent more than it's done, it can't be debted indefinitely, short of life on debt is over, it's clear to everyone in Croatia today. That is why one of the most important tasks ahead of Prime Minister Milanovic's government has been set to reduce the deficit and this budget has been achieved. Last year, the government of Prime Minister Kosor had a budget deficit of 15 billion kuna. This government is proposing a budget of 9.9 billion kuna. The direction is therefore good, we support this direction and we firmly believe that in this term, the deficit will be reduced to an acceptable 5 billion kuna. Another equally important task is the awakening of economic potential, meaning raising gross domestic product, raising production and growth of the economy because savings alone do not bring anything but at the same time have to be in the function of developing the economy and only in combination with economic growth can we expect better times, i.e. an increase in the revenue side of the budget, but also a reduction in budget deficits. Through tax policy, every government and thus ours shows their direction. This budget should be monitored together with a tax package which the parties to the Kukuriku coalition only realizes promised in the campaign – lower tax burdens to the poor, slightly more to those with higher incomes, tax not only work but also capital, and finally tax and through the reduction of other duties to relieve the economy. Reinvested profit relief, reduction of health contributions by 2 percentage points, reduction of so-called parafiscal charges, water and forest charges and memorial rents are reduced by 50%. It will bring a direct economy of 3 billion kunas primarily for recovery and then growth and development. I don't think anyone in this assembly should be against it. When it comes to workers under the burden of crisis and expensive countries living for years, personal deductions for establishing a tax base are increased directly by an untaxable share of wages and pensions, which will increase not much but will still increase wages that are low or average for them around 750,000. The government also increased the VAT rate by 2%. It is true, we did not promise this in the campaign, but this increase in VAT in the package with other measures is for the first time not in the function of State waste but in the function of support to the economy and socially weaker citizens. In addition, most traders announced that higher VAT would not necessarily bring more food prices. At the same time, while retaining a zero rate for bread and milk until the entry into the European Union, a reduced rate of 10% is introduced to children's food, oil, sugar, water bills. So, to what is most necessary to every household. There is no fear that VAT as a stable and secure budget income will bring down citizens' standards. On the other hand, it cares about the end and the current avoidance of VAT payments through the purchase of a car at the company, the representation, and all of this was used mainly for private purposes, not to help the economy and investment in production. And we welcome this measure not in terms of budgeting, but in terms of encouraging investment in production and in new jobs, but also in alignment with European Union directives. The government has shown tax policy that it does not intend to please the rich at the expense of the people who live off their work. A dividend tax has been introduced, which means that it will be taxed at a rate of 12% of the profits obtained from the stakes in companies, and that is where small shareholders were thought. It will not be taxed less than 12,000 kuna. The expenditure side of the budget or expenditure is reduced by 4 billion kuna and we support the Government and we believe that at this point above that amount could not be done. Some people ask why it wasn't cut anymore. But we support the government because we think that a bigger spending cut would be at this point the cutting of the branch on which we sit and expect the buds. It also reduces expenditure in places where it will not endanger the functioning of the state or the functioning of certain economic branches, nor will it endanger the standard of citizens. For example, the total wage mass is reduced but not in a way that pays in the public sector are reduced, but in a way that reduces the number of overtime hours that were often fictitious and only used to draw money from the budget. Better organisation of business processes will reduce the number of overtime hours to necessity. Work contracts often used to pay for work that officials should have done in the context of their job description for which they receive regular salary without talking about fictitious contracts that were also used to draw money from the budget. This will save nearly 2 billion kuna and we welcome it. Furthermore, certain subsidies, for example to HH, are reduced. In the Croatian Railways, there was nothing done in the reconstruction for 8 years, and the money for wages was paid practically out of the budget. That won't be possible anymore. Incentives in agriculture are also decreasing. Everything agreed earlier will be paid and there will be no cheating on how the predecessors did it and left 900 million kunas in debt with cheating. And another reduction, which is the cost of various services such as cleaning, maintenance and the like. Another 320 million kuna will be saved, and probably more. When we only mention that daily in the state 700,000 kuna is spent on maintaining computer equipment mainly because of the unnetivity, it can and must be saved. In the public sector, there are 2,000 databases that are not related to each other. No one cared about introducing order and controlling financial transactions from the budget. Too many harmful contracts have been concluded that cost citizens hundreds of millions of kunas. For example, 40 million kuna loans from the World Bank to inform the social care system, and a 3 pilot project is not working. When we talk about savings, we must not forget one minimum for the budget, but large and symbolic for all our citizens – the abolition of privileged pensions. That promise has been fulfilled. As far as our pensioners are concerned, apart from harmonising with the cost of life we've come back, we've fulfilled our commitment, an increased non-taxable part from 3200 to 3400 kuna, that's what could have been the most about people who've gained their pension through full-time employment. There are no cuts in social benefits, maternity benefits and child benefits. These are the last lines of defense we talked about and they are defended in this budget. We expect better control of all kinds of expenditure. It will certainly bring savings in the coming years, but without the networked and arranged system that we inherited, and regardless of the funds spent for that purpose, we must say it openly at this time, unfortunately, is not possible. As regards the difference in the amount of the budget compared to the one announced in the guidelines of $600 million, we fully support the decision because it is the means that will be directly directed towards active employment policy, the increase of regional development funds, and the payments of commitments made to farmers. It's not about any additional consumption, it's about investing in creating conditions for opening new jobs, but also about paying commitments made by previous governments, and we have no intention of moaning about it. Let me get this straight. The SDP club supports this budget because we believe that the old one cannot, that it can no longer live on debt and on credit. And that is why we believe that this budget with the tax measures that are embedded in its income side will facilitate the recovery of the Croatian economy. The 2012 budget shows the government's true, sincere intention to change direction. This isn't about left or right, this isn't about yours or ours. Here we decide whether this country has a right to an opportunity that can only be provided by a more efficient and cheaper state, and a more tax-deprived and spiral-deprived economy. The ultimate goal of everything we do in the long term is the standard of all Croatian citizens and we in the SDP are convinced that by the end of the term, this goal will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3509	Thank you. Corrections to an incorrect quote. Madam representative and Vice President Jadranka Kosor, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3510	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well fellow Dragovan impressed by the work of this government said several inaccuracies, I will correct only one related to the rating as this country said, so the rating of the Republic of Croatia speaking about the work of the last government and that the rating was brought to the brink. Mr. President, my opinion and the opinion of my party is currently in line with the Law on fiscal responsibility for which the SDP did not want to vote but also the fact that Croatia has completed the negotiations, that the Croatian government I led has completed the negotiations and that we have signed an accession agreement. And as for the economic downturn, I remind you that last year we had GDP growth and that this year we will have the lowest decline of 1%, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3511	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3512	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister. Unfortunately, counterpart Dragovan has presented a number of incorrect data that can be read from the budget. So, for example. On page 2. 4 clearly says that the gross earnings are reduced by 575 million, not by 2 billion, that's on page 4. And the other thing, one of the most incorrect statements is that the VAT increase does not serve to charge the budget but to the purpose of the economy. So the VAT increase is used to increase the budget, and in what you're going to spend it on is another pair of shoes. So that's a fact because that's what you've increased the income side with. And what is also and Croatian citizens will feel it very soon already tomorrow with an increase in fuel prices that are lower tax burdens for the poor, it is simply not true. Croatian citizens, especially those with a weaker property status, will feel very good about the increase in VAT 2%, and you will see this, because it is simply 2% that cannot be overcome with no price increases.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3513	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3514	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me correct Mr. Dragovan's incorrect allegations that he is in debt to farmers from 2011 is 900 million kuna. There cannot be a debt of 900 million kuna for the reason that debt cannot be something that is not in accordance with the law and regulations. There is a law that regulates and amounts and also rules on the payment of incentives in agriculture that regulates deadlines. And according to this, it can't be said that it's something long that hasn't come in a time of maturity yet. Incentives and support from 2011 to the greatest extent come for payment in 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3515	Thank you. We're moving on to a discussion of club representatives. Mr. Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3516	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ministers, MPs. Right, the budget should be supported. This is the 2012 budget but the real basis I dare say for those 2013, 2014. Well, maybe some next year. The budget should be supported among other things and precisely because of these activities which are now being undertaken in order to maintain the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia in 2012 as well. Now what's the point? Indeed, this budget is in the projection that GDP should grow by 0.8% for 2012. And now the question is, is that possible with all these public sector activities? I am no unfaithful Toma, but I fear that economic activity in one Istria where opportunities are still slightly better than perhaps elsewhere will be less than in 2011. What am I based on? In Istria, exports grew in 2011 compared to 2010. For modest 1.2%, or it stands at a nominal billion, 243 million US dollars. I always compare it to the Primorian-Gorski County. There, exports grew more than in Istria but amounts to only $773 million or Istra exports $460 million more. Imports to Istria fall by 14.4% is only 860 million US dollars. Imports to the Primorje-Gorski County amount to $974m, dropping only 3.2% with 100,000 inhabitants there. But what I think must be crucial could be shipbuilding. I want to believe that in 2012, the oil company will repeat the figures from 2011, but it is questionable in 2013. 2011 The oil yields 40% less than in 2010 and profits 10 times lower than in 2010. However, they do business positively unlike other Croatian shipyards and hats below, both workers and trade unionists, as well as the administration itself. What about the other shipyards in Croatia waiting for privatisation? We'll see about that. Brodosplit should take over Div, Trogir, Queen, 3 May should take over Končar. What did Končar do in Istria? I don't know. What will they do with shipbuilding? We'll see about that. God forbid, after all this, this branch is preserved at least at the level of 2010. The ESOP programme is being talked about. It is a beautiful, romantic idea that could pass the 1990s, for which we will be safe and in 2012 but the key is in orders, they are not available for 2012, 2013 and among other things thanks to the destruction of the largest shipping company Croatialine in the 1990s. ESOP will be involved by workers when the average family without a car to survive needs 6 thousand 693 kuna, and we will see that only afterwards. I'm afraid it's 2012. Croatia is also waiting for a series of bankruptcys. On the other hand, we heard why the Minister of Finance intends to privatise Croatia's insurance, Post office Bank. In Croatia insurance is likely to enter TDR or Adris anyway. Probably a P.O.B. buyer was found. What I would like is for this tax reform to go through with the revision of conversion and privatisation. Maybe you shouldn't privatise these leading national companies, but I think it's in the next one. According to the 2011 budget projection, when we talk about public spending, we should reach 2014. I think it's a real assessment. I think sooner, unfortunately, those are the times, many of them are worse than they are, but I think I should agree with the government, first of all, to work on the economy. It literally went down on us. Now that's interesting in this budget. Tax revenue 2011. 60.9 billion kuna, 2012. 64.5 billion kuna. Tax on dividends in 2011 billion and 57 million kuna, 2012 billion 283 million kuna. VAT 2011 39.3 billion, 2012. 40.5 billion kuna. Contributions 2011 39.3 billion, 2012. 36.9 billion. The economy, I'm afraid, could be weaker and should be given more. But when we talk about the economy, we should keep in mind the same thing. Croatia does not hold large companies, 100 biggest companies in Croatia employ around 150 thousand people, total control I would say 50% of economic activities, a budget full of 25%. On the other hand, we have 60,000 out of 90,000 liquid small companies that employ 700, in revenue, with 25%, a budget full of 50%. Medium-sized enterprises, meaning 1,000 have over 100 to 200, 250 employees, have around 150 thousand workers, income is made 25% and budget is full of 25%. These little ones are permanently neglected, 2% less contributions to health care, they'll feel absolutely it's exactly great, now whether or not that's going to be hard. Yesterday or not, I read a statement that was conveyed by our presses by US President Obama who says literally this way, that he would continue to ask the richest Americans, especially by millionaires and billionaires under quotes to pay his fair share. In order for all of us to succeed, we must invest in the success of others, says the American president. In fact, in 2012, it's going to be one of the hardest years since '95. And there's no need to envy this government. I dare say, and the budget somehow shows that this year will be a year of sobering. I'm afraid 2013 won't be much easier than it is in 2012. Why? The draft budget says that loans will cost the state 11.2 billion kuna or about 500 million kuna less than last year but will grow to 15.9 billion in 2014 and reach $17.4 billion in 2014. When the budget deficit is added, although it will certainly decrease, the country's overall financial needs will rise by around 5 billion kuna per year next two years. And that's why I'm saying, I'm sure Mr. Milanovic's government doesn't need to be envied on this. One word, I'll say it again, this is going to be a year of sobering. Now what's going on with our budgets? In 2000, the budget without extra budget funds is 50.7 billion kuna, 2003. 80.5 billion kuna, 2004. 83 billion kuna, 2005. 87.9, 2006 is where they start for the election of jumps, which amounts to 96 billion kuna, in 2007 as much as 108 billion kuna. And then somehow in 2008, it rises for commitments made to 115 billion, 2009. 118, last year we had 122 billion, this year it's going to be 118.8 billion kuna, now 3.4 billion kuna per mine, so let's be 4 anyway. But if the economic activity doesn't grow, if I can express myself to these credit rating agencies, if the interest is growing, if we don't have the projects to pull those 600 million kunas out of Europe, we're going to have to paraphrase Mr. Cacic, the first vice president of the government, offer that plan B. No one said what plan B is, but in my view it could be another rebalance, maybe -2 billion kuna, and I'm afraid of it. And therefore, it really needs to be supported by the Government, everything needs to be done to avoid this budget being final, or everything needs to be done to make this budget a final budget for 2012. What's the budget framework, so that's 1.2 billion kuna higher VAT, we'll have the truth God the biggest VAT in Europe right behind Hungary, the truth and the Swedish have a 25% standard VAT rate but on all food, tourism, hotel accommodation, passenger transport 12%, on cultures, newspapers, cinema, sports 6%, on salaries, pensions, social services, subsidies maybe another time. On the other hand, it is a reduction in health contributions from 15% to 13%. The fact is that there is a change in the non-tax share of salaries and changes in these payment classes, and that should relieve employees in the real sector whose salaries are slightly less, the public sector should be burdened and I think it is a fair and fair offer. Why, because the public sector has not lost a job in the last two years while the real sector has lost 140 thousand jobs. In the processing industry, the average salary is 4697 kuna, employees in the public administration have an average salary of 6181, in health care which is logically the same, etc. So the burden is being transferred from the real sector to the public and I think it's kind of okay and that might be the strongest part or message of this budget. Elimination of pre-taxes on cars, catering services can brutally hit those brands, we'll see. We intend to secure the same money from excise duties as last year 2011, last year 11 billion 532, this year 11 billion 493 million kuna. So savings public service 2 billion, subsidies a billion and 400, 500. Then yes, I'm glad the Prime Minister mentioned the dairy. There may be politics in the protests, but surely these protests are not anti-state, and I can't and that's certainly a nice definition, on the other hand, no one can convince me that 2.3 kuna per litre of milk is a fair price in this country, at this point for Croatian peasants. I won't use hard words, robbery, one, the other, dairy, etc. No, it's not safe from the state, it's from the Dukat monopoly, and that's why monopolies should be specifically taxed. The peasant will eventually have to agree to those 2.3 kunas because he has nowhere else to go. But let it be known that they are being damaged and that no one under these conditions can positively do business in that industry or farms. If wheat has a protective ransom price, it should have milk for me. The wheat you sow, treat, reap, get incentives, work 10 days a year. But with cows you must live 365 days like with children in a year. You have to even dare tell them more about it than the children themselves. As far as Istria is concerned, the hospital will probably go, Plomin Three yes or no. The program says yes. Every investment is necessary. I think maybe we should just have the Labinstein or be obliged to ask at the referendum what the Labinians think about it. Roads, ipislon. If Ipsylon doesn't start at 10 months which I don't think is supposed to cost the state anything then our operation will literally kneel. If it starts, and I'm talking about 45km of roads plus 5km of tunnel Učka, that's 300m euros. All Istrian operations will work with full breath. I'm just saying that last year in Istria, there was a drive of 200 miles of fast roads. Anything at all absolutely yes. The government should be given a chance, a budget should be supported in good faith, without restrictions there will be no survival. But it will be a difficult year for all of us. Today, in a newspaper in the morning I can and say, it doesn't matter how many associations participate in the budget. I couldn't believe it with even a billion and 500 million kuna last year. We're talking about political parties. The church went down 50 million kunas. That's fair. Although a cat doesn't need to move too hard for a tail, you have associations that use billions and 500 million kuna on an annual basis for them 40 and 4 thousand. All in all, the IDS club will support the budget on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3517	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, party of work Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go. And behind him is Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3518	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow Prime Minister and members of the government. When Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic put the draft budget table on the table, they handed me his one sentence, so we decided. Today he also said quite resolutely the old man's not going, the new one's blurry. I agree. And that's why we are in the Croatian Labour Club not to write amendments to the draft budget, because that's how we decided it and a message to representatives of the ruling majority that the opposition amendment will not be accepted. We're not going to write amendments either because they were rejected on a package of tax laws and now this would really make no sense. So that's why we'll support the budget. What is new, and it is not cloudy today is a message through part of the Croatian media, that even a package of tax laws passed last week, and this proposed budget did not convince rating agencies some call them a racket agency and those really often for political reasons the racketeer of a particular state, but the great Labour Act is your crime. It's your biggest sin, and if you don't change that, we'll crash your rating. In the end, I'll tell you why it's dangerous and it's no wonder that this panic rose just today when the Parliament discusses the budget. So, the state budget with 108.6 billion kuna revenue, which is only a billion and 600 more than planned for last year, 117.1 billion expenditures which is 3.4 billion less than planned last year or a deficit of 9.8 which is 5 billion kunas less than planned last year. It is good that Prime Minister Milanovic today said in the parliament that some countries have achieved their recovery and the increased deficit of the state budget and are not in crisis because it is always important that the state budget goes into it. Those who have developed their manufacturing sector from the deficits of the state budget today are not in such crises. We have been overcome by a false message that the government deficit was used exclusively to pump the public sector, and may have been used to cover unpaid taxes, for example. So, it's always about when the state gets into a deficit, which is why that money's going to go to. Tax revenues with 64.4 billion or 5.7% increase are not said by the government to be a new tax burden, but there will be higher tax revenues. What I expected and no one explained the increase in income from profit tax as much as 7.6 billion, almost 35% more unplanned in 2011, on which basis, which are projections that bring such an optimistic forecast. VAT 50.3, 53.3 billion, only 2 and a half percent increase despite the increased rate. State spending 2.4% lower, and that's a lot of talk. A little less is said that this macroeconomic policy is based on a fall in personal consumption of 0.3%. It doesn't kind of stand out in political speeches or in the media, and it does. Investments of 7.4 billion public enterprises. When this investment package is presented to the public, we may be able to be convinced that it is a wheel of economic recovery. And 2 billion revenue from the sale of the Croatian Post Office and Croatia Insurance is one of the reasons why we will not support this budget. As far as the sale is concerned, I have another question to ask. In INA Croatia has no management rights, it is either sold or donated. What do we need ownership stakes in INA if we don't decide anything in this INA? I'd sell it when the sale's going on. When the state budget is added to the budget, the revenues are 112.4 billion, 123.2 billion and 10.7, respectively, and if I have seen the biggest deficit outside of the budget users, Croatia's roads go 2.5 billion. The Budget Law shows that 18.8 billion debts are planned this year, 9.2 on debt payments, 9.8 new ones. The expenditures of the 3.4 billion where it was saved. By a billion, 490 million were reduced employee costs, but only 590 million were paid, i.e. out of 3.4 billion total savings, as much as 43.8% of employee savings. If we add subsidies to a billion and slightly less, that's two major savings items. Some feared the rebellion of the public sector. You won't have a problem with the public sector, Mr Milanovic could be somewhere else. But there's one item that's one institution that's most profitable in the budget, and that's the government whose budget is 26% higher compared to the last one, or by a total of 56 million. So this government will be more expensive according to the 56 million budget plan than it was planned for last year. In 2002 we had 10 billion euros in debts now 47. The Central State then owed 6, today 20 billion. Unpaid liabilities, orders nearly 42 billion of which 35% over five years old, 21 000 companies without employees owe 16.5 billion. It's money launderers and tax evasion. What are they proposing? Nothing. The banking sector with 4.7 billion profits before tax. In 2002, we had 8.1 billion unpaid taxes and contributions in this country, 2004. 22.5, 2008. 28, now that's about 46 billion, if we add and concessions are estimated at 9 billion. It's 55 billion, but it's only half the budget. So we have half the budget of the crowd of funds the state is looking for and can't charge. Both in 2002 and in the end of GDP data was about 200 billion, assets of the financial sector were about at that level. Today GDP is 330 billion, and the assets of the financial sector are 50% higher than GDP which we found neither in the accompanying laws nor in the budget. One of Croatia's big problems is the grey economy, and we are particularly interested in the gray labour market. Nothing, not a clue, not even a hint of change. Second, OIB. We've spent a lot of money to introduce the OIB system. is only the High Court of Commerce and Gruntovnica a problem that it does not work and why is it a problem? Why is the OIB system and the harassment of citizens with them if it is not in the original function of charging obligations? What is proposed? I didn't see anything in the blur that would guarantee that the OIB system in this calendar year was functioning. The debt breakthrough in the contribution was incorporated into the law, and we asked what about the general tax code? We didn't get any answers. Our proposal for progressive dividend taxation and profit has also been rejected. And that's a message we understood would not go through a tax system that would be more socially acceptable. When it was an IMF delegation in Croatia, those who know how to read their foreign investment messages in Croatia will not be invested in the economy and new jobs, but rather in the takeovers. In the purchase of what the government has also announced that they will sell but also what is still on the market can be found. The following is a hint that virtually all investments in social activities especially in education, preschool and health care must take place in a public private partnership model. I would like the Parliament to get before that, and we have a large number of large investments in this model, to get a calculation, an analysis of the performance and profitability of that model before we step too far into it with new investments. The law on budget implementation again on the right to assist local and regional self-government units does not have one important criterion. There is no criterion for those who have not introduced all the local obligations, taxes and taxes to do so, and even those who have introduced but who do not charge, so the percentage of the charge is ridiculous 1/3 must collect their claims, that the cost or expenditure of the budget and go up to 75% to the employees and by these criteria of the law and will continue to be entitled to the assistance of the central state. So long as these criteria are not installed until every local environment has exhausted its local capabilities and only then has the right to knock on the door of the state and this model of support to local self-government is not fair. The announced objectives of these days from statements by different government members were growth in production, growth in investment, reduction of state spending, a slight silence on personal consumption, growth in tax revenues, GDP growth. And what if these goals are not achieved, or whether it is true that only the radical amendment of the Labour Act, which hides only one message in itself, abolish all collective agreements and not only in the public sector, but also a private solution to the economic problems of Croatia. Behind the requirements for amending the Labour Act is a hidden requirement to destroy the collective contract system. And the Prime Minister said in the northern states, I guess he meant Scandinavian states, people work. Right, exactly, Prime Minister. You know what the secret is, in a model of a regulated labour market that they have, and that regulated labour market model has its name, its institutions, its shape. If you're going to write a new Labour Act, let's install that model into the Labour Act and there won't be that many problems. The secret is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3519	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the minister reported. You want the premiere? Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3520	Dear colleagues, I have listened very carefully to the speech of the President of the Croatian Labour Party, Mr. Lesar. Politics is outwitting, sometimes manipulation, so I'm going to ask that we stay away from this other one a little bit more. As in my metaphor, you chose the word blurry as a definition of something new, not what I emphasized, and it is unknown and new and uncertain, and then finally and blurry, but not as a hunt in a blur but as something that a man without experience is more difficult to discern, so it's metaphorically cloudy. So metaphorically, not ethically. I ask you that when it comes to the Labour Act, I have this opportunity to point out once again that this would not be manipulated, which is important and which is irrelevant. The labour law is a deep social contract. 10 and more years ago, the SDP-led government, the coalition government in which Ivica Racan was inaugurated the Labour Act and in negotiations with international financial institutions and was criticised, who knows if for a reason. History will determine that this is a neoliberal law issued by workers. And so it's been ten years and more. Today again we see that from the order of neoliberal politicians, economists, bankers again come demands somewhat undefined to re-change labour law and reduce labour rights. Look, we didn't announce it in our election program, we don't talk about it. If there's anything concrete to quote, everyone listen. We're not thinking about it right now. I'll say something more, we don't want to think about it at all because I stress, the labour law is a social agreement, deep down, it's not just a letter on paper. There are some provisions that you and I will agree on that may not be the most rational, that's what the unions are thinking today. But this second, once you start cutting, you'll never stop because in the eyes of a neoliberal entrepreneur the one who sees only profit and not social responsibility is an ideal state in which there is no obligation. Now, look, on the one hand, we try to relieve entrepreneurs and businessmen, I stress to the businessmen, so those who do, who create new, certain burdens, contributions. It's new, it's uncertain, some have already tried. We'll see how that works in our case. It's a discharge, it's a motivation, it's an incentive. On the other hand, VAT has been increased to correct state revenue on the other hand. This revenue, on the other hand, will, in all likelihood, go to the rescue of some other deficits in the budget. It's a brilliant idea, it's not. If it could work, we believe it would. So when we talk about the Labour Act, if you already point it out here as a nemesis, as a major threat, so tell me what we said to change in the Labour Act. In my deep conviction, no, perhaps an extended period of application of collective agreements, paradoxically. About this, the Croatian public split, almost organised a referendum. Today, the unions are taking a rational position. Besides, I don't know, you tell me what we said, so don't overdo it, that's all I ask. The only stopper is investment, in the structure of social or national products you have five items: imports, exports, state consumption, private consumption and investments. These four other than investments unfortunately cannot give too much in this year, only investments, only public investments. The countries that have increased their deficit in this crisis and have grown I don't know what you're talking about. Great Britain, which is not in the eurozone, has a huge budget deficit, a huge 9% and huge problems. It wasn't the generator of new growth, just temporarily, briefly, the problems are coming back and it can't last forever. Others like Germany as well as Italy having serious problems with rating agencies and with its credibility, with the trust it transmits, have the primary budget surplus. So it's still a matter of discipline, and we're going to learn that in the years to come, maybe not in rigid discipline but in real discipline. So I say I listened carefully, I'll listen further, it was one detailed analysis of what you did, I respect that, but between analysis and synthesis there's a difference. From synthesis, biochemically likely, the science of the hunch came life, not from analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3521	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First of all, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3522	I'm correcting the Prime Minister's sentence about what we said about the Labour Act. I wasn't talking about the government's statements and announcements to the Prime Minister, but you know that there is also a third partner who speaks intensively about the subject. I warned about the climate created in Croatia, which is why I apostrophyd this. So I didn't say government statements. Government statements about the Labour Act don't, yeah, maybe that's how I've understood them by now. It is one controversial provision that all torments is resolved and without changing the Labour Law. And as for the blurry, I had no idea, I was just quoting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3523	Thank you. And correcting the incorrect allegations, Madam Vice-President Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3524	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm correcting Mr. Prime Minister's incorrect allegations that the government is not considering amending the Labour Act. That's not true. Several members of the government have made it clear and loud that the Labour Act will change. Here's the first vice president also Mr. Finance Minister as far as I know they're still members of the government, and if they speak for themselves, then you'd have to make them public right after that. So, the public thinks we at the HDZ Representatives' Club are also on the basis of statements from at least two of your ministers that you are prepared to amend the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3525	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3526	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister of Finance, Member and members of the members and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. The stand-alone Democratic Party's club will support this budget. But we're going to say something about the nature of this budget, and more about something that should follow it. If he is expected to win those successes and the results that those who designed him and who suggested him here have in mind. Croatia really needs fiscal consolidation, it is more than clear and it has been said for a long time. And if there were circumstances, the cuts you suggested in terms of public consumption would have been taken a few years earlier. This is how you took them now, given that the Prime Minister here pointed out that they would not compromise what is in Croatia at this time the most fragile, which is the production potential and production capacity of the state. And on the other hand, to avoid further destruction of such a fragile state in the country itself. And on that side, we think that, regardless of the objections of those who say you didn't cut enough, that cutting of 3.4 billion plus these 600 million cuts is a measure. But let me say something about what really bothers me all the time as I listen to debates about fiscal consolidation, and that is the absence of debate, even though the Prime Minister's words clearly show that he is aware of it, even though the words of certain clubs also show that they are aware of it, but let's give that a real name, and the real name is that fiscal consolidation will not be possible in the way it is imagined if it is not followed by the consolidation of the state. Because unfortunately, the state is unconsolidated. If that were not the case then, it would not have been possible for 17 billion unpaid contributions by the labour minister and the pension minister to have gone on non-refundable. And under economic circumstances and circumstances of the crisis, it's possible that something like this could happen. It is possible that companies are collapsing and it is possible that they do not pay contributions or pay contributions. But we know it's not just about collapsing, it's actually about business policy. Turn off the company so he doesn't pay his contribution, shut down the company so he doesn't pay his taxes. On the occasion of the 2010 State Attorney's Office's report For a year we saw that the amount of unpaid taxes in the case of companies that went bankrupt or in liquidation somewhere near 3 billion kuna. Could the state have prevented that, too? What could the state have done in that sense? That's the real question. It's another thing. If it's true what you can read about lately that only 9 billion kunas are not charged for concessions for the exploitation of gravel, for hunting sites, for I don't know what not yet, so that's almost as much as our deficit. How is that possible? Did these companies go bankrupt? Did they go into liquidation or did something else happen or did something else happen? That we don't know how concession contracts are made, that we don't know how they're based on them and that of course we don't even know if fees are paid except now that we see what's going on. So we can cut as much as we cut off, we can cut in the next year or on any rebalancing as much, but it won't make sense unless the state is consolidated. Because our problem is actually specific to the other countries that the Prime Minister mentioned here. Our problem is we haven't consolidated our country. And for this reason, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and members of the SDSS government believe that, in addition to fiscal consolidation, the consolidation of the state is a necessary, necessary condition under which fiscal consolidation policy can succeed. Without it, we're afraid it won't happen. Another condition which, apart from the consolidation of the state that we believe is necessary for fiscal consolidation to be tolerated, could be sustainable for most citizens in the Republic of Croatia because it really concerns most people and is necessary for the burden of fiscal consolidation to be evenly deployed. Here in the last days, even today in the Parliament, we could hear that we could no longer live without making money and that we could no longer live on debt. And who are we talking to? Pensioners who have to buy food on a debt, young people who have to buy flats on a 10.11 or more interest rate, who are we talking to? Who are we talking to in that sense? To those who are sentenced to live on debt, to whom we will still have to lay the burden of fiscal consolidation. And we're not talking about those who have 98% savings in Croatian banks. We're not talking about those who out of 50 billion kuna interest on savings. And it certainly isn't that 2%, and it's certainly not the ones who take loans for apartments on those interest I mentioned, but it's about those who most often don't live off work, who didn't get their property by work, who didn't get their pensions by work and who didn't get their wealth through work and who today, Mr. Minister's state, is too expensive, too hard to carry. And in the 1990s, when they acquired that property when they sent pensioners and pension funds, they didn't mind, when the state issued bonds so they could do business, then the state didn't bother them. And today, this country is bothering them. It is our job to protect this country and see where it is inefficient. But not to allow the creation of the mentality created in the public especially in certain media that this state is not only expensive but almost excessive and that it should only be left with a flag and a constitution to which we will swear and be the only thing we would be doing here. And it's about us from here in this position trying to convince people, and I believe from what the Prime Minister said with the sensitivity of the social and sensitivity to measure and the allocation that it's necessary for us to run a policy so that we can get out of the challenge of protecting the real sector. Where is this real sector competitive? Where is he competitive except in relation to our country? Where does he gain the highest income, except for competitions with the state and with its public enterprises? Does it work with companies outside the country? Hardly. And if he works with the strong incentives of this country. It is therefore important to say and it is important to hear that fiscal consolidation must be carried out so that the burden of responsibility lies with those who are not only rich but also have enormous incomes. Why in the policy of taxation a group of those who make extremely high profits and income in Croatia? Due to the fact that double taxation would be avoided, they will not be taxed and are among those who have the highest income. And now if you came up with a story about the need to tax interest on loans again, you'd get a riot. You now if you came and Kukuriku coalition, now the ruling coalition is on the issue of citizens whether to introduce that type of tax she said she would, as she said she would, will introduce the natural interest tax that I mention. Therefore, it would not certainly affect a wide number of Croatian citizens. It would only hit the part that really has one piece of money. Therefore, a decision has been made to cut as many as 33.4 billion. And we'll support that because we believe we can handle it. But I'm sure that won't be enough. And it wouldn't be fair if it only happened the way this was planned if we didn't ask the question of who and where else it could be cut. On which side can the revenue component of the budget be strengthened? And that's where I mentioned it. In the consolidation of the state and the different distribution of burdens. One direction is to think about why financial institutions still have a privileged position in the whole process today and with us? Why? I believe that in further discussions on the budget, we will be able to answer that question, but that question is of paramount importance for us at the SDSS Representatives' Club. I could, of course, also talk about specific aspects of this budget such as the issue of municipalities in areas of special state care, reducing the giving of these municipalities that we should be able to be actors in participation in European and development funds, but we'll leave it for another opportunity, because it's also unfortunately a drop in the sea of this story that I'm talking about. But what I think is important is the question of how the consolidation of the state at the same time, if we were to cut where it was most difficult, such as health care, such as education and where it's most sensitive then we expect that, and where of course the resistance can't be so fast or so powerful, then the question is whether we're going to have the strength to cut where resistance can be direct, fast because they have in the hands of the media because they have financial institutions and the state has to show that the state is towards its people, and the budget is the opportunity to say that the state is taking care of its people and we're going from the SDSSSS Club to encourage the government to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3527	Thank you very much. The word has a finance minister, Mr. Slavko Linic. I would like to inform you that it is time to report a discussion on any basis of the Rules of Procedure other than correcting the incorrect quote for now and later on for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3528	I thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. These several debates on clubs in the first place raised the question of the efficiency of the collection of tax revenues and the possibility that we should essentially try to increase the income side with tax revenues and the collection of tax revenues. The Ministry of Finance will give you very detailed information on how our outstanding tax revenues are moving. And if we add up everything we haven't really charged in the last 10 years, and it hasn't been written down yet, you'll see that those figures are close to 50 billion kuna. That's not what's been charged all these years, the good part's still in bankruptcy, we're looking for, there's no closures, there's no write-offs. A good deal of those companies are gone, stopped working. They're not closed, they're not written off. So these are things that we're going to write down in some way this year and one part of it is definitely lost. We'll discuss each of those points. Somewhere there's 24 billion kuna in me I'd say prolonged claims, whether through annual payments, 30 per month, now there's a new law ahead of you. The government of the Republic of Croatia is just thinking about what to do, whether with the start of the new government's mandate to fully tighten the charge, which means anyone who doesn't pay a kuna tax on any basis, kuna customs to simply block the accounts and then open up the bankruptcy. For the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the very clear fact of 42 billion outstanding claims is in the entire economic system, with the trend of growth, was the reason not to approach such a measure but to go again to an unpopular measure of the motion to postpone the claim or I would say refinance the debtor's obligations for 36 months and the law will be before you this week. Why unpopular, and because it is truly destimulating for every company that seriously fulfils its obligations, for every company that may also be uncompetitive in public competitions and quite different approaches to public competitions unlike these companies. Yeah, those are serious problems, serious dilemmas and the question is what to do. We also tried to explain to you that the government is going towards a complete change in the Financial Business Act where we will define the speed of consolidation, financial consolidation of legal entities, and thus force debtors and creditors in which the creditors will necessarily be Government, to try to find exits in order to be more responsible in payment systems but not only to the state but also to other economic operators. Therefore, after the process of the law that will be before you is passed, and this means the possibility that individual entities will report for a postponement of payments to 36 months and tax and customs and other entities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will very vigorously charge each kuna, which means that we will have a lot of problems in the economy. One and the other, means the possibility of agreeing to extend payment to the state with a new Financial Business Act which still takes time because it also requires the judiciary in that segment, the entire banking system, the National Bank, means it takes time, arrangements and public debates. From that moment on, a completely different treatment for the collection and efficiency of the Tax Administration begins. Therefore, during this year, the way in which the debtors are treated will be quite different and we will go on an effective charge and unfortunately move from the market of anyone who is unable to meet those obligations. You also know that we have begun to change the rules regarding payment of contributions, that we already have laws regarding payment and net wages. These are all the regulations that we are going to amend over the next few months, and something important is going to change on the market. Therefore, the budget that the government has proposed to you means in that part and quite different relations between the state as a believer and taxpayers. When we talk about whether the budget is a dry figure or it has some other messages then I must point out that the government will also present to you as a complement to this budget and complete I would say the dynamics of state investment by value, by deadline, by name of investment that indeed our data on 0.8 economic growth would have a reality. Because as you have seen, we are no different from other macro-economicists, and we have a decline in state spending of 2.4%, we have a decline in personal consumption, we estimate that VAT growth, I would say the savings we have on payouts, even in the public sector will result in lower spending. So we're not different here, we're only different in the fact that last year was -7% of investment activities, and this year we're expecting them +7.4. These are the only differences in these macroeconomic projections of the future of 2012 and that is why the government will very dynamically monitor whether we are able to achieve these 0.7. But parallel to the investments the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also going towards projects and reform programmes in this year, reforms that will not only be indicated, dynamically projected, effects that must be produced, measures that will follow them, so that we can achieve them. Because simply these reforms that are to be implemented this year will mean the security of those spending items in the budget, because a good part of these reforms will monitor easy spending in the budget and will mean the reality of these figures on the expenditure side. It will be these written documents with this budget, so that it could be all of you and acceptable and understandable. There are also several discussions about a fairer redistribution of the tax burden and several messages have already been sent that we are seriously considering an even fairer distribution of the tax burden. Because thirteen and fourteen years are years in which it will take and further reduce the spending of the state budget, but it will also need to be more realistic in the revenue side. And it is evident that VAT or the consumption sector cannot be the only source of tax revenue and that it will also need to introduce new taxes. We have already said several times that in Croatia the biggest problem is that the huge wealth, the enormous property we have not put into operation. And that wealth when it isn't put into office will in some ways require tax owners to put them in office, even interest that we're talking about. But these are all the activities I would say are also the jobs that will be prepared through the reform proposal for this year, and at the 13th and 14th years that are in these fiscal projections will have its effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3529	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3530	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. This budget as well as any budget is brought in some real time and the key question is whether a budget is responding to questions and requests for a while, so I would paint a little picture of the situation in which Croatia is today and these macroeconomic circumstances in which this budget is being adopted. It is important to know that the state debt is 46.6 billion euros and that public debt, or government debt, has been growing in the last years. It is important to know that the budget deficit of 15 billion kuna is 4.3% of gross social product, which means that it came out of the master criteria of one of the three important criteria for setting up for the euro zone. This is the other side of the negotiations with the European Union, that the relationship between workers and pensioners in Croatia is 1,2:1 which means that we have a million pensioners per million and 200000 workers and that the coverage of imports is 60%. These are four facts that are undeniable and clearly and sufficiently depict the moment in which Croatia is located. The picture can be more plastic if the ratio of pensions and salaries, average pensions and average salaries that have been constantly falling in recent years is added. The internal debt, the liquidity that has reached nearly 40 billion kuna, the competitiveness index of the Republic of Croatia, the corruption perception index and the employment index that is in Croatia is about 50%, which means out of all workable only 50 percent and some European countries have reached 70% and in the Europe 2020 document, 75% of the employment index is set, and we are somewhere at about 50%. These additional data pictures of this, our economic and political moment, make it something more plastic, but they don't make it any more beautiful. And under such circumstances this budget is brought and it should never be disturbed with the mind. Because of the knowledge of where we are headed so that we can monitor the development that we will achieve, but also because of the fact that we know who is responsible for Croatia's presence today. It's not bad either, and it's for the good of politics. This budget for the 15 billion kuna deficit falls to slightly less than 10 billion kuna and enters the master's criteria in the segment. It's a big step. This is the first budget in 20 years that's smaller than the last one. It took strength and determination. And when we talk about what kind of budget it is, which is its nature here, has often been spoken, spoken countless times flossula about how the budgets are developmental and that the social ones that were really neither of them, because it was not known on which of these components is the emphasis and which at some point is more important. So it was nice to say, of course, that were conservative budgets, budget status quo. Because if the budget is equal to development and social, then it's neither. If it's not developmental, it can't be social in the long run. And countries that know how to run politics have the stages of budgetary development when it wants to achieve and achieve economic growth, and then the budgets can be social. This budget that we're talking about today is a budget that needs to be developed. There's no alternative. This is the budget of savings and the budget of development. Because without it, tomorrow could not be a social budget, because we would have to share the poor, even in the most perfect social system, if you have nothing to share, it's still a bad social policy, and in order to get to it, you have to walk the path of development. I'm going to highlight here some things in this budget that speak in favour of a budget that, which could allow for development. It is important to know that the loans and guarantee programmes in the economy that have increased by 20% in the Ministry of Finance's item by 333% from 180 million to 600 million kuna, and that trend from 700 million kuna of export promotion annually in that item continues in the years 2013 and 2014 at the positions of the Ministry of Economy to strengthen the competitiveness of the industry, so that early Croatian economy cancer is expected to increase by 9%, and so the Agency is receiving an 11% higher budget in these difficult and tight budgetary circumstances. In the area of the entrepreneurship ministry and the exchange of interest subsidies for business loans, 33% rise, while strengthening international competitiveness is introduced a new item of 25 million kuna and is extended in the 2013 budget. And in 2014. and equally at the position of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Fund we have a regional competitiveness programme that grows by 72%. Of course it's all just part of the story. The question is how will this announced investment component of 7 or 8 billion kuna work. But these are the signs that give hope that the projection set here and that the development goal set in that budget and the government of the Republic of Croatia's policy have a real basis. As regards the sustainability of the budget, of course, the issue of openness remains, is this budget sustainable? No one can give an exact, positive, or of course a negative answer based on data, because it is a presumption of estimates. But what is important is that the government recognized the situation, recognized the problem, and, by setting this budget, took responsibility for its sustainability. And it's a new way of managing public affairs. So, take responsibility and then, of course, if you're unable to achieve what you've written and planned, then at least you'll have to answer. That's the key question. The HNS representative club of course supports this budget but in particular supports these components for 2013 and 2014. It should not be disturbed that the deficit of the budget is projected in those years 2013. 2.1% and 2014 It's dropping to 1.6%. Also, the share of the budget in total GDP drops 1% annually according to these projections and from 38.9 in 2012 falls by big, huge 2% in 2014. These are things that should be kept in mind and should be monitored based on this data from where this government started. And as I said that those basic things, the basic four things, shouldn't be distracted from their minds at all times, should be repeated over and over again, kept in mind. I will repeat them once again in the context of the sustainability of the budget and in the context of the determination that the Government has proposed by proposing such a budget. And that's that the government debt is 46 billion euros, that the budget deficit is 15 billion kuna, that the worker and pensioner ratio is 1.2.1% and that the export coverage is 60%. And in such circumstances, the sustainability of this budget will not be easy, but I am convinced that with the measures announced by the Government in part in this budget and in part in its programme that this will be possible and that these projections of the budgets that are here for 2013, 14, and I hope of course 15, which would be the year of harvesting fruit that these projections will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3531	Thank you, too. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric on behalf of the HDSSB Club. And next in line is Mrs. Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3532	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Ms. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. As early as the 16th century, one of the biggest Bosniak philosophers, Hasan Kafi Prušak, said, "There is no power without people, no material goods, no prosperity, no prosperity without justice and no good politics." Here is more than four centuries, but the truthfulness of these words has not lost a fraction of the time. Croatia has been burdened with major economic problems for years and it is a real time when there is no longer time to delay the start of solving these problems. Today is exactly 60. New Croatian Government Day. The 23rd December of last year, 60 days ago today, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, representing the programme and candidates for the composition of today's Croatian government, said words that gave hope that something would finally start to change for the better in Slavonia and Baranja. Speaking of unwarranted differences between certain Croatian regions, today's prime minister said among other things: "The entire Croatian regions of Slavonia are primarily victims of war, later perhaps not the most successful policy, because in Croatia politics has decided everything and decided everything, and most of all public money. It's not good. To this Slavonia, our Slavonia, I promise special care. For such a small country as Croatia's regional differences are incredibly large. For such a country, the differences between the west and the same between the north and the south are inaccessible. Slavonia and then Dalmatia, which is in a slightly better situation than Slavonia, are our big, big goals and important priorities. We will not discriminate on political criteria. Hold me by the word of my colleagues and colleagues." These were the words to Mr. Prime Minister that you said 60 days ago here in the Croatian Parliament. These were indeed words of encouragement, words that had lost hope for better tomorrow throughout Croatia, and for us in Slavonia and Baranja were of special importance. And we've held you, Mr. Prime Minister, and we're still holding your word as you asked. We have before us a proposal for a state budget for 2012. Because of the awareness that the time has passed when more could be spent than was created and had been done, Croatian citizens have been and are ready even though the water has already come to their throats to bear the additional burden of getting out of the crisis on their already distressed backs. Especially since they were promised that the burden would have to be borne by all, without exception, without privileges, without equal to others. And did we get that from this state budget proposal? Unfortunately, many, especially us in Slavonia and Baranja, are afraid not. We didn't get what was promised. You promised us then and that those who are currently not strong and lagging behind in development, I quote, go after those who are and reach them, but how do we reach them when we find the following in this proposal of the state budget. Here's Slavonia and Baranja, agriculture. It is not necessary to stress in particular that agriculture is the main and strategic branch of the economy right in Slavonia and Baranja. In plan 21 of the Kukurik coalition in the chapter on agricultural policy and fisheries on page 15, I quote: our coalition places agriculture as a priority and strategic branch. And on page 16, it says, among other things: the incentive system will be in the function of increasing and changing the structure of production, the agricultural support system in Croatia will be implemented as in the countries of the European Union. What does this look like in Croatian is an example. The expenditure of the state budget was reduced by this proposal compared to the last year of 3.4 billion kuna. Of this, the largest reduction is foreseen to boost agricultural production, market intervention of more than 1.3 billion kuna, which accounts for 40.06% of the total reduction in the expenditure of the state budget. Secondly, this cannot justify even the fact that the funds provided in the budget for the payment of contractual commitments for incentives and support of income to non-member farmers from last year amounting to slightly more than 864 million kuna, as this is still more than 500 million kuna less than the previous year. And agriculture is described and referred to as the priority and strategic branch of the economy. Third, recently before the referendum on entry into the European Union, we heard videos about how 40% of the budget is intended for agriculture in the European Union, and it is known that in the EU for rural development through the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development from 2007 to 2013 96.3 billion euros and around 20% of the funds are allocated to the common agricultural policy. In view of this, it is not surprising that in rural areas of the EU, which occupy 91% of Europe's surface lives more than half of the EU's population, as it is in view of the far-favoury and inefficient agricultural policy towards Croatian farmers, but it is not surprising to the Croatian village that the Croatian village is getting poorer and deserter from day to day. Slavonia and Baranja are no longer enough to have a Minister of Agriculture who only comes from Slavonia and Baranja, while at the same time the relationship with agriculture all these years is such that farmers have to protest justly every year to exercise their rights. It was enough to have agriculture ministers such as former Minister of Slavonca who hosted the World Cup in the gun as I was already saying, which will be held in Croatia this year, along with all the Slavonia-Baranja-Srijem fertile fields he assigned to no less than Biograd at sea. Fourthly, unfortunately, it is not only a drastic reduction of the incentives for agricultural production, a mirror of the attitudes of this proposal of the state budget towards agriculture as the most important strategic branch of the economy of Slavonia and Baranja. There were also places to reduce the funds just as drastically, for example. The needs of the Croatian Horsefarm Centre. This is for state ergels Đakovo and Lipik, whose funds for this year have been reduced by no less than 52.3% and from 11.1 to 5.3 million kuna respectively. Fifthly, on the other hand, in the division of the same Ministry of Agriculture, we find that this year 700 thousand kuna will be found for the reconstruction of the rolling stock and not only that, and in 2013 there will be even more money for the rolling stock, million and 870 thousand kuna. And so much in 2014. So for the reconstruction of the rolling stock, there is a total of 4.4 million kuna, and for the ergels in Đakov and Lipik there is no, and the incentives that we do not talk about. Let's take a look at some extracurricular users. The plans of the Croatian Waters for the renewal of melioration structures for the disposal and irrigation of 5 Slavonia-Baranja counties in 2012 envisioned a reduction of funds for more than 37.7 million kuna, and the worst was the Požega-Slavon County, which reduced funds by almost incredible 70.91%. The investment activities programme for the Eastern Slavonia regional water pipeline, for the Virovitica-Podravska County water supply system and Osijek-Baranja County, reduced the planned funds compared to last year by 10.1 million. For irrigation systems in Slavonia and Baranja, the funds are reduced by €49.2 million. You said there would be no discrimination on any basis, and especially on a political basis and listen now, for the reconstruction and construction of drain systems in Slavonia and Baranja, for the County of Osijek-Baranja, Virovitski-Podravska County, the funds for 6 million and 70 thousand kuna were reduced, while at the same time an increase of funds for drain systems in Međimurje County by 100 thousand kuna, in Bjelovar-Bylogorje County by 400 thousand kuna, in Sisak-Moslavina County by millions and 600 thousand kuna, that is 420%, and in Varazdin County by as much as 7 million and 178 thousand kuna, or 199.69%. There's no discrimination. I don't know what this is called. Let's look at the division of current aid, capital aid and capital investment. For these purposes, a little more than 8.8 billion kuna is foreseen in the state budget. Of which, for all 5 Slavonia-Baranja counties, a little more than 274 million kuna or 3%, compared to the previous year when there were 440 million and 660 thousand, and at that time that amounted to 5% of total funds, a reduction of more than 166 million kuna. This year's biggest reduction is for Vukovar-Srijem County by more than 137 million kuna. Almost unbelief. Let's look at continental tourism. Just when the development of continental tourism began to wave in Slavonia and Baranja in this proposal of the state budget investment in the same has been drastically reduced. Here it is, to support the promotion of rural tourism, the funds are almost completely abolished by 97%, for the programme to encourage tourism development in undeveloped tourist areas, the funds are reduced by 4.6 million kuna, by 67.8%. The funds for selective forms of tourism on the continent were completely abolished, they were 7.1 million kuna, now zero. And we are talking about a balanced development of all Croatian regions. It could be said of Slavonia and Baranja, and this draft budget is on the trail of the people's saying "an orphan and God are hard". And let's look at more budget users. We have heard countless times justifiable arguments about the necessity of saving, on all levels, without privileged and without equal from others, and how everyone must make a contribution to it. The necessity to fire thousands of workers is announced, and let's see what in terms of savings and rationalisation is shown by projected funds per individual users of the state budget. The government of the Republic of Croatia has already been mentioned. In this year's budget, compared to last year, the unquestioned need to save funds for the government's work, I guess, as an example, has increased by just over 56.5 million and 26.6% respectively. This, I guess, aims to streamline expenditures for employees is projected to increase from 103.9 and 3.9% respectively, and to support the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the Office of the Prime Minister is projected to increase from miserable 289%, i.e. 2.7 to 7.8 million kuna. For the Croatian Government's office, it is likely that as a contribution to saving and cutting costs, an increase of 259.4%, by around 65 million, and the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities has an increase of small 173,8% Understandable associations are of great importance for the development of communities and civil society and should be financed, even though Croatian citizens have nothing to eat. And those associations should not be subject to austerity and cost-cutting measures, in particular, should not be spared when it comes to associations that all-increasedly promote Croatia as a country created by crime and the Homeland War as a joint criminal enterprise. One question for the division of the Croatian Parliament. I'd also like to hear the answer to the question of what's going on with the council TV, why the current amount of 970,000 kuna is being replaced by zero this year. If it is a matter of not getting the equipment in order, but if it is that the Croatian public no longer has to listen to or watch what is being debated in the Croatian Parliament, then I must admit that no one likes it. The Ministry of Finance. As a contribution to the claim that there is no discrimination on any of the criteria, and in particular not by political here, let us also look at the division of assistance to local and regional self-government units. Here, at the very least, wonders the view of the projected funds by county. While the Osijek-Baranja County provides for only a small reduction of 3.8%, I must admit that we are satisfied, we do not understand why the Vukovar-Srijem County received a reduction of as much as 30.3% more than 2 million kuna, while at the same time an increase of 138% for the County of Međimurje, for Sisak-Moslavina County 155% and for the Varazdin County 162.2% of the funds compared to the previous year. Here's another thing about extra budget users. About their contribution to saving, cutting costs and rationalizing, so let's take a look. In the 2012 financial plan, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund is likely to be implemented by projecting an increase in staff expenditure of 1.3 million kuna and 4.98% respectively. The increase in expenditures for unremarked operating expenditures by 62.4 million kuna or 8.68% as well as the increase in expenditure on services for incredible 337,66% or 39 million. It will certainly be a very effective savings in the Energy Efficiency Fund as well as in the Croatian Roads, whose financial plan for 2012 is projected as a contribution to the savings increase in employee expenditures by slightly less than 6 million kuna, 6.81%), as well as an increase in costs for employees of just over half a million kuna. It will also be saved at the State Property Management Agency. And they predict an increase in staff expenditure of about 6 and a half million kuna or 21.5%. And in the end, we need to save ourselves and the sea, and we are not against it, and in that saving we all need and we must make a contribution. However, in this and this proposal of the state budget, it is not only visible that not only is everyone really involved in saving but that the burden of the crisis is evenly distributed to all Croatian citizens, nor is it evenly distributed to all Croatian regions. And by all accounts, we're afraid, and yet Slavonia and Baranja should draw a thicker end. Just remember the division of agriculture. And you promised Mr. Prime Minister to take special care of Slavonia and Baranja, and many of us wanted to and still want to believe that. You said hold me back. Here we are still holding you by the word, because this is still still just a draft state budget and it is that it can and can still change the amendments and we will deliver them. And it is not yet a lost chance to keep your word and it is not too late not to disappoint Croatian citizens, especially the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, but in the first proper exam, and the adoption of the state budget is such a test. And it is not too late to be not only a second but a different authority than the one that has ruled Croatia for the last eight years. In 16.11.2010, Mr. Prime Minister, during the debate on the 2011 State Budget Proposal, in the heat of the debate, you have used the issue exactly 22 times, whether you are aware of then the state budget promoters of representatives of the Croatian Government from the HDZ coalition. I'm asking you one question today, are you aware? Are you aware that such a budget proposal is not what was promised, it is not what the citizens really expected, it is not what the Republic of Croatia really leads to on the way out of the crisis. This is a budget that Croatia is still unfortunately leading the way out of the crisis. In the Banski dvori, the cook has changed and no more potato salad has been cooked from which it has sickened the vast majority of Croatian citizens. Don't ask that both your kitchen and your menu of Croatian citizens, and especially the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja catch nausea and torture cramps. With a desire that your plan 21 does not experience the fate of the known HDZ guarantee card, we invite you to consider and accept the justified and reasoned remarks and amendments that we will make to you before all when it comes to agriculture. We hope that our remarks will come to an understanding, because we hold you to our word. Otherwise, the HDSSB club will not be able to accept this proposal from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3533	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister has come to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3534	In my speech in the Croatian Parliament, I was going to stay on the principles primarily. You were talking about hundreds of details or dozens of details. Both approaches have advantages and disadvantages. The dry principles of people can be boring, and you can confuse people with a bunch of data, so they get the wrong conclusion. By listening to you, although you were a constructive and peaceable man, you would have concluded that in fact in action there was some secret plan of some secret brotherhood that Slavonia would be taken from the eyes without her seeing it and you know it wasn't. You could draw that conclusion. It's not like that. So many things you haven't touched. But one question, and that's why it's one of the handicaps in the Parliament that we can't discuss openly, directly, but by these relatively rigid rules. Maybe it's a good thing they're tough. So my question can be said do you think that the support system so far has been good, effective and that it can be defended economically and ethically? I'm not going to suggest an answer. You say it. Do you think the future of Croatia's entry into the European Union of Slavonia will be worse, that it will be abolished? Do you really think that, now I repeat one questionable phrase repeatedly to allow us to be shown in such a way, to in fact embarrass one perhaps of the poorest Croatian region to further downgrade and leave behind Croatia. Of course we won't! There's still room for some kind of conversation, but I'm asking you not to, that's my call, not to overdo it because this was a whole bunch of data that some of you might be standing by but most of you, when you're looking at a wider picture of my deep conviction, don't stand. There are funds for regional development, there are funds in energy. These are all things where we will try to prove ourselves so as to be like enlightened managers, like people who know what priorities are. So again, I urge you not to confuse people here right now. That's where I'm going right now. So we won't underestimate human intelligence and intelligence. We can talk about everything, but we can correctly show the data and put them in the right context, to know when 300 percent of something is just a couple million kunas. Yes, when we talk about the expenses for the fleet. Oh, for God's sake! Well, that's the last thing I want to sign and I want to put into the budgets at all. But you have an option or a renovation of the rolling stock as it is that with cheaper vehicles you will pay expensive maintenance and service costs. And that as a citizen who probably has a private car you know very well what it is. These are things that have to work. So, if I hadn't gone back to that dry extreme of principle, you could still hold our word. We are well aware that our reputation and reputation depend on whether we will be just and honest, not manipulators. There's no motive at all. Here, look at us as politicians, that in the people of Slavonia, we resent each other or we will do so. Slavonia, if you want to, by intensity, whoever is in Croatia, through the funds of regional development, the promotion of rural life, through the EU, will be better than it has been so far. Here, with the most incompetent Croatian power with malicious Croatian power, things are just better there. In some other parts of Croatia, we may have to draw a little more. There. But so all this together doesn't come down to outwitting and manipulating, I'll stop there now and you'll see what our real intentions are. Only as politicians do we have this interest in making Slavonia better without talking about other interests not, human etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3535	Thank you. You're staying here to correct an incorrect quote. Here you go, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3536	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I must correct the incorrect allegations, so no one has ever thought in a word that it was any secret conspiracy against Slavonia and Baranja. The numbers speak for themselves. 373 pages of the budget without those supplements, you believe that we have reviewed each item per item. As for the ineffectiveness of your question, you asked me, even though you were supposed to give me answers, I'll try to answer you anyway, we don't think the incentives have been effective so far. That's what we said, an inefficient policy, but it's not done in a way to end incentives but to set different criteria. And you've reduced by one billion kuna to 40.6% of the total reduction in the state budget. It's math. I expected you to give me an answer for Parliament TV, let me have Mr. President if he does. And in the end, here's only when you were talking about the car. Listen, it's weird that just... and it just fell into my eyes I didn't see anywhere else to be taken, just in the division where you took the most insurance in three years 4.4 million kuna for the purchase of a vehicle. You could've done it somewhere else and borrowed less into your eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3537	Thank you very much. Let me just say one sentence, even if I shouldn't, according to the Rules of Procedure, but as far as I'm concerned, it's a matter that applies first and foremost to me as President of the Croatian Parliament, but also to all MPs. So these 970,000 kuna are no longer in the draft budget because these funds were intended for technological improvement and upgrade of the Assembly TV system and now we can't afford it. So transfer standards don't shrink, but they could have improved. Unfortunately, we can't do that right now. On behalf of the HDZ Club Jadranka Kosor, the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, has another word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3538	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning, on behalf of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the HDZ, I would like to say something as a small introduction, since we are all here gathered representatives of the political sides, to deal with politics, so we politicians and politicians are one grade from the political aspect of this budget that I must immediately say to the HDZ Club will not vote for. So, a political assessment when the budget is looked at as a whole. It's something, ladies and gentlemen, that the Kukuriku coalition program, program 21 hasn't announced. This is something we talk about when we talk about increasing VAT when we talk about increasing the tax burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia has not been announced in the pre-election campaign. So it reminded me of an excellent sentence, excellent certainly from my perspective today, an excellent sentence spoken by Mr. Vice President today, Mr. Greek, in a TV show in the wake of the confrontation when he said, "If we were to discover what we would actually do and what we would do if we were to get power, who would actually vote for us." And now I remind myself of that, of course, because that the Kukuriku coalition programme announced an increase in VAT by 2% of the additional burden on citizens, that it was also announced by colleagues and colleagues that the annual average Croatian family would lose at least 2 thousand kuna due to an increase in tax burden, then perhaps, the results of the election would be something different. But we're not talking about the election right now. We're talking about the budget that's ahead of us. So, I expose myself in some way and the dangers since Croatian Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic gives at the cabinet session that adopted the budget and sent it to the Croatian Parliament, he said: "That the budget itself is such a complicated system that the average mind sometimes cannot understand it," so I am putting myself at risk to say that we were trying to understand that there are a lot of experts in the Advocacy Club. And I certainly pose myself to the danger of saying, as the Prime Minister puts it, something like a tsunami of data, but I believe that from what I'm about to say on behalf of my club, I understand clearly what we are warning about. I would also like to say in the beginning that we are going to submit a few amendments which we would like first of all to point to the Government for some failures in our opinion, some failures above all when we talk about the spending side, I will say something about interest, and I believe that later in the debate, my colleagues will explain this in more detail. So we'll go with the amendments no matter what we know the government won't accept those amendments. But we believe that the wider public, especially the professional public, will, after our amendments, take the budget and analyze it further. Ladies and gentlemen, why do we think this isn't a well-prepared budget? First of all, there is something that could be called institutional preparation in the preparation of the budget especially when it comes to spending. In our opinion, the budget is overrated from the revenue side by about a billion and a half kuna, but also underrated on the spending side for about the same amount of billions and a half kuna. The total tax burden therefore in spite of repeated beliefs, over the past two months, the total tax burden has certainly increased and thus a positive trend is interrupted before the end of the work of the previous Government which has had a tendency to tax discharge. I would remind, of course, that I think I have the right, that we in HDZ have the right to remind ourselves of the debates in this House in July 2009, in the Croatian Parliament, of the discussions at the moment when we had to take some intervention measures, the increase in VAT rates by 1%. Remember the debate about what was down to just one score, which is a hack, a hacker and a hacker. However, according to our estimates, this now increases in VAT that should be brought in, and the total tax burden that needs to be brought on the income side to about 2.5 billion kunas actually for the poorest, for those who are the hardest to live, is actually a harrer of times 3, and for some, maybe, a hackr of times 6. And I'm afraid you'll see it by the end of the year. So the tax burden is growing and we are certainly not convinced that this tax burden, of course combined with other measures that the government proposes, which are the basis of this budget can lead to an increased investment cycle which I will later on. So we certainly support the idea of both prime minister and government members, the reduction of deficits. It was also a HDZ programme for elections, parliamentary elections 2011. We have clearly indicated how to reduce the deficit in this year, so to 3.8 and then 2.4. 1.8%, however, we did not make it very clear to do so. So what happened here is that the government is playing with taxes, but it's not going to bring about stabilising finance. So the budget brings down expenditure only on paper, and it increases taxes and it certainly does not, in our opinion, lead to the objective we support, which is to reduce deficits. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said this is a budget that does not have institutional support or is not sufficiently prepared. I'll tell you why we at HDZ think that's the case. There is talk of a reduction in the mass of wages, and it is said very casually, and it is variable given who is speaking from the government and what day it is talking, about reducing the number of employees in public enterprises. So here is Minister Komadina recently said that the number of employees in the Croatian Railways will be reduced by 5,000, the second day has corrected and said that it is not an exact number, we do not know what the figure might be, but it is also said about reducing other obligations arising from collective agreements. There is talk of reducing or abolishing overtime, of abolishing many of the obligations arising from ladies and gentlemen from collective agreements. Nothing like that has been negotiated with the unions. And we're certainly asking a question in which way, for example, I'm going to extract only one element that seems interesting to me and that can be well and plastically elaborated. Namely, reducing or completely eliminating overtime in state and public services. Does that mean when we talk about specific jobs like police, like firemen, that someone in a town at 4:30 calls the police and I say watch, I see that there's a possible robbery going on here, and that the clerk says I'm sorry, my hours are up, now it's 16.32 hours, and I won't be paid overtime. What's going to happen to all those, all the cops, first of all, who do the hard work, who really need to bow down, who have to intervene unplannedly often. Now here's the milkman protesting, who's providing protests, police, cops. In what way, so they work overtime, so they need extra equipment. I mention this because this system that is proposed to be implemented through this budget is not ladies and gentlemen imaginary, it is not imagined until the end and there is no way other than collective bargaining and there is no way to agree with trade unions of certain items that are not in the expenditures planned to reduce or abandon. No Christmas card, no regression, no gift for children, but I repeat no overtime. Of course, the question remains, for example. in protesting how to completely abolish work for a certain time, but also elsewhere in the state service. As you know, we have a lot of excellent officers, they go on maternity leave, someone needs to be hired to do the job, of course temporarily. What it will mean, what it will mean, and how the government as an employer will answer that question. It is a matter of continuing ladies and gentlemen to increase the investment of the state sector, and it is true that when we add up all the expenditure of the state budget and the extra budget funds and investments of the consolidated general government will be reduced by 500 million kuna in 2012 and that will further deepen the recession. Therefore, capital support and transfers to the Croatian railways will be reduced by around 500 million kuna without a clear restructuring plan. Obviously, investment by public undertakings in the energy sector will be stepped up or sought, in part, by the Croatian Railways with the provision of state guarantees without previously significant restructuring of public companies' systems. And that is what supports my claim, our claim that the budget is not prepared and that the budget does not stand on the right and sound foundations. The expenditure side will be able to be reduced now by looking much less than is predicted today, and I must also mention these are our main arguments in this claim, I must mention some absolutely underrated items of the budget and we will ask, by way of our amendment, whether the Government will continue to apply those items in fact to remain in the air. First of all, the expenditure will not be reduced because this moment the money is missing and is absolutely planned for example in retirement. So, according to our assessment, there are approximately 300 million kuna missing. I'm saying, in the context of indexation, I'm speaking in the context of indexation here, Mr. MP Hrelja, who will certainly mean more in October than absolutely what is scheduled. But I also remind you that, for example, for next year, an increase of only 70 million kuna is foreseen. So we're looking for an answer to what that's going to mean? Is this year actually going to add to pensions? For the unemployed in the context of these layoffs, this reduction in the public sector, i.e. in the state administration, is certainly missing at least 100 million kuna, as the number of unemployed will increase by interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is missing about 800 million kuna at the expense of the state budget. I don't get to elaborate any further. It will be one of the amendments to the Croatian Democratic Community. We will propose 800 million kuna increases at the interest position. Also, I've already said regress and goddesses, etc. It is not intended and especially what I want, which I want to warn you about is the Fund of Balance and Decentralised Functions. 353 million kuna is down. Health and school and fire departments are also financed from this. What measures will be taken for such savings, ladies and gentlemen? In the end, I want to repeat what I said earlier in a correction of an incorrect quote. The credit rating of the Republic of Croatia is currently in place by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. We are pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whose members today did not vote for the law today in opposition, is often called upon today by Minister Linic, and when it was necessary to have the courage to raise the law by the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011, then there was no courage. And the fact that the previous government has completed negotiations, that we have signed an accession agreement and that on 1 July 2013, we will become a member of the European Union. To conclude, I would only quote one statement by Mr Linic, today the finance minister who was in 2009 when we increased the VAT rate by 1% said, "I find it difficult to comment on all the nonsense that the current government is doing. I don't get to say what I'm thinking, and they're already suggesting a different rate. The SDP is against VAT increases." Ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3539	Just one correction. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh, and then Mr. Prime Minister will also be involved in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3540	Madam Vice President Kosor presented a series of allegations that I would gladly correct and comment on, especially since I was the first person to call her crisis tax a harachus. But I'm not gonna do it now. I'll leave it for another occasion. Here I would just like to correct one quote that could bring confusion or misunderstanding. It said that a reduction in the total mass of hours spent on overtime proposed by this state budget could also affect certain specific activities and reduce the effectiveness of, say, police and firefighters. It wouldn't be good if it stayed in the air because these are the activities they do on shifts. So both the police and the fire department have been working 24 hours and there is no possibility of any service being provided as a public service at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3541	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3542	Thank you. Well, I think it's if there's nothing else and it's my turn to point out that the president of the club is the biggest opposition party. Every honor of the Law on fiscal responsibility that I have here personally, it is not an authorship proposed as a concept a year and a half before it was adopted. However, whether a fiscal responsibility law is sufficient to actually adopt a specific budget. Is that enough? There's that saying here's Rhodes, here jump. Here, yes... We're proposing a budget that's smaller in expenditures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, no government has ever done that. Why didn't she do it? It doesn't matter. At this point, it's more completely irrelevant. Our expectations and our projections are one, yours are the other. And as part of that, we will outwit ourselves and prove ourselves. We claim and believe that the overall tax burden in the broader sense of the word is because we as a burden of the economy as you do, of course, see and the contributions are not greater. And that our calculations are correct and will prove good for Croatia. You'll argue otherwise. But my question to you is, I know this is not how we can talk and that you can't answer me through the bench, it's a rhetorical question. In recent days and months, the former government heard about the problem of excessive employment, public sector surpluses, state administration. In your program, which isn't poorly written, I have to open my heart here, but it wasn't implemented, it also said that it wanted to achieve a savings on the salary. How do I ask? So open. The themes of collective agreements, Christmas cards, regressions, gifts for children are topics that we need to discuss at this very complicated moment. Today, the president of the Labour Club at one point suggested that we slowly abolish collective agreements, so he said without. So it's just not true. Collective negotiation remains a very important and present instrument. But we will have to talk openly about specific rights, or items of those collective agreements. Is that fair? I think it's fair, let's say it in advance. Let's not go back to what it was. Of course, it's your full right to quote every statement we make, including the confusion and the bad things that may have been. But let's go see what's in front of us. How did anyone plan to save on the payroll? Cancelled? I won't tell you now. In the state administration, there is, above all, a certain stability and job security in the public sector, there is. It's mostly gone, even in public enterprises. So those who have such security at this point will have to agree to certain concessions. I don't have that security. I don't have a job, I don't have an employer I can come back to if the citizens cancel my trust either. So we need to talk to people openly and tell them what's possible and what's impossible. I don't mean to set a personal example, but I've never been in public service and I haven't even asked for hours of overtime. I don't expect people and especially not from cops and firefighters to be sated up and killed by work, exposed to executioners, and their status isn't regulated, but we'll primarily expect people to work harder, to work better, to be more efficient, productive, to accept the fact that their status is as safe as those of many in Croatian society who are not, some farmers, but to make their contribution in their own way. And that's what we're talking about here right now. I'm not going to draw you on thin ice and ask obvious questions as to how you were going to spend some of the savings you announced. And that's legitimate. You can say that, you don't have to say that. So, special pay additions at this point are the subject of conversation. On the other hand, what such security. On the other hand, total uncertainty. We need to build a society that will be safer and more stable for everyone. We're building a country where as many people as possible will work, so finally the debate has come to how many employees, not as many new jobs in a year. These are fictions, so no one can realloculate but how many people we want to work in Croatia to be active in the labour market, to work, in one way or another. When I started doing the work I was doing then I was of course there were much more built and richer states, but why not at least dream about it on the news that we could be like that. They have 40, 50 vacation days in the northern countries. Because that's how they open up space for everyone to work. It may be a little late for us. It may be a little late for us, but we have to look for new ways. So let's be realistic. This budget is a real budget, he's not an imaginary Nobel laureate. He's written and calculated realistically. It was worked by people who worked as technical persons and experts for both the former government and the previous government. He's real, he's real. I'm a rational optimist, and I hope you're not a pessimist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3543	Thank you very much. The representative of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3544	In fact, the optimist, Mr. Prime Minister. I am correcting the incorrect allegations by Mr Milanovic, who mentioned the Fiscal Responsibility Act that he was proposing at some point. Yeah, it was a different law, but I was talking about the fact that you as a SDP representative club didn't vote for that law, you didn't give support to the law, though. When it was voted on the budget itself, Mr Milanovic, you were in Kastav, and you weren't in the 2011 budget vote, that's a fact. As for the reduction in the number of employees in the state administration, we left our model, use it 2 for one. That's what Mr. Greek said recently, but he said one for two, and we suggested two go one come. And as for the general problem of the Labour Act, collective agreements Mr. Prime Minister, collective agreements just before you said that the Labour Act will not change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3545	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Mr. Representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go. Finally, a representative of the HSU Club, Mr Silvano Hrelja, follows. Here you go, Mr. Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3546	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, Ms. Minister and Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the 2012 budget of the Republic of Croatia, a historical document that for the first time since the independence of the Republic of Croatia provides for a reduction in budget spending compared to the previous year. Of course, the height of this reduction can be spoken of in different ways. Whether the cuts are deep enough or not, they can be pollemised, but we believe that this fact of the reduction of the expenditure side and, above all, sends a clear message that we cannot go any further, or that with further spending of budgets without cover in our own income, we are fast approaching the situation in which Greece is today. So, we are in crisis, and that it will last and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware and the facts are visible from the 2013 and 2014 national budget projections. We have years ahead of us in which we will have low growth rates, and we will have to have consumption in such a way that we have to go year by year to reduce the deficits of the state budget that the Government is projecting. The National Minority Representatives' Club will support this budget and wish to the Government but also to all of us that this budget is achieved and that the strength of our overall economic activity is sufficient to fill the budget in the planned frameworks, and that responsibility in all resolutions is such that consumption does not penetrate this budget of the set framework. In particular, the National Minority Representatives' Club also expressed satisfaction with the fact that the funding of the National Minorities' Cultural Autonomy Programme, which is financed through the Government Council for National Minorities, remained at the level of last year, or only slightly reduced. Also in the 2013 and 2014 budget projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3547	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3548	These funds remain at the same level as they speak of the government's awareness and responsibility towards the implementation of these programmes and the preservation and care of cultural and specificities of members of national minorities. But in this debate on behalf of the National Minority Club, we would like to say the following. In principle, we believe that cuts on the bulky side of the budget are necessary today, but that they have a negative impact on total consumption, which is a negative effect. So what we're trying to say is The solutions and exits of the crisis are found in finding a way to fill the budget with as much own resources as possible. [[Intruder: Please nice.]] Here we see several important things in which the government could take into account or plan certain measures in its future work. First, finding ways to spend more than 10 million tourists in our country over 60 million overnights as much as possible during their stay. We believe that one task that needs to be considered in the future and what more ministers and the overall tourism economy should take into account. Secondly, construction needs to be strongly encouraged today, and this trail should consider the possibility of reducing VAT to thermal insulation materials as well as encouraging measures for the adaptation of existing facilities, which in addition to announced public works in which construction would significantly improve the very invisible image and position of builders today in the Republic of Croatia. Thirdly, in the area of reducing the grey economy, we think it would be very important to consider the possibility of introducing smaller businesses of flat tax and that the effects but of course to tighten the discipline of working on black we believe that these effects would be really possible and very important and contribute to this entry side would be said the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Fourthly, special attention should be paid by the Government and the Ministry of Finance to the behaviour of the tax authorities towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. In the past, we have witnessed the frantic lawlessness carried out by individual inspectors, and that protection is given to them by all state institutions at the stage of the complaint in the appeal and even by the administrative procedures that are later being conducted. This sends a very bad message to entrepreneurs who are absolutely slowing down in their activities, and some are also driving them into the gray area of work. Tax controls must be a legal process which determines possible unpaid tax obligations, not a procedure that fills the state budget in a way that simply invents tax obligations. A few years ago, a group of entrepreneurs in Istria had to go out on the street and into the media, block roads to try to protect against the lawlessnesss carried out by individual inspectors and tax administrations who would later even end up in custody and with indictments. It's neither the place nor the time for these cases to be elaborated but it works... and I will quote only one important detail: in tax supervision carried out in a company with more than 100 employees, all of whom are indefinitely, in which 50 women works and with a net salary of 3200 kuna housewife, the inspector in his supervision invents a build-up of two apartments per 64 square square meters and thus creates an imaginary non-existent obligation of over one million kuna for the company. [[You don't understand.]] At the same time, a court expert hired by the company, I quote, says: I, as a designer, designer, statistician, court expert and mentor, do not see candidates for court witches on the building upgrades. So that story costs a million kuna to a company that employs 100 people. This million kuna is one of the two million on top of the fabricated liabilities that have not yet been recovered from the company. Why is it so illustrating, just another quote from that case which this may be a little bounced from the topic but it is very important in the functioning of the tax authorities, so the inspector came into the company and instead of doing his job, and the bookkeeping chief keeps notes about his behaviour and what it requires of him and at one point she writes the following. He declared that the company had hidden from the state 3.5 million kuna because we put the cost in the balance sheet on construction sites, and we didn't recognise the income. When we proved to him that this was not true, he stated that after the war, the dead were counted and that he would still raise that amount with us. So you have a situation where a tax inspector comes to your firm with as much intention as he needs to fill, how much he needs to buy, and in a company that has hired more than 70 people in the last two years at that time, who is in charge of the bank's throat, the Leasing House code. So a hundred people don't just hire, and on the other hand later will be convicted or the procedure is conducted means for bribery and corruption, one to say popular racketeeres and on the other hand works for their groat. So that practice just has to stop. I hope it has nothing to do with the owners of this company, and the examples of such a lot in Istria were, so it was a whole front, I don't think it should matter that the owners are members of the national minorities, but such as should not happen to anyone. So it just can't happen. Entrepreneurship, especially in today's situation, needs support and understanding from the tax authorities, which would create an additional motive for further work and further engagement. If we, and I put ourselves in that story, if we're recalibrated, then we retreat, we go in the offensive, and that results in negative effects on the budget's income side. Once again in the end, we will support this budget and we want every happiness in its realization.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3549	Thank you very much. And finally on behalf of the HSU Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go. I will also read the announcement that the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Valter Boluncic, convenes a meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture today at 2.30 p.m. at Stjepan Radić's Hall 133, so at 14.30 p.m., Hall 133.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3550	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister and members of the ministries, members of the government. Here is the 15th time for me to listen to the ninth year of the budget proposal and definitely every thing was a matter of political decision, each was a relationship between the political majority and the minority in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. it depended on the concept of who had the majority in the Croatian Parliament. So the budget is a matter of political decision. Of course, the rating of citizens will be as appropriate to the current conditions or not, as fair or not. Yes, it is true that Prime Minister Milanovic said that the new unknown and challenging, it is true that he is hiding the danger, the new one hiding the danger but hiding the chance. It's up to us to recognize and take advantage of it. Yes, it is true that we are also looking for a new model to get out of this situation and that model must certainly be social and certainly be developed, and in fact it will be as realistic as possible, it will be a compromise of its own. The claim here has been made that the countries that started reforms earlier stand better. That is true, their reforms, unlike our long-term projections, are realistic and most of them did not live above their possibilities. Here's to illustrate, the pension reform in Germany, which is one of the best standing in this crisis situation, is still going on. They had no ambition to be more believers than the Pope and to end the reform in 10 years but to plan it in the long term, very realistically and they didn't give priority to the import economy, but all their development was based on their minds and production economy. That's the important difference, and that's the space we have to turn towards. Yeah, it's been said here that he can't do it anymore. This does not mean, however, that everything that is old is wrong, that no one can say and in this way cannot judge but it is certain that we cannot live at a level above our opportunities, or we cannot spend more than it is earned. Here also in some way illustrated the difference between the cash register and the budget. Yeah, the cashier's always focused exclusively on survival. The budget should be development, and we still have to decide here and define priorities. So we can't absolutely guarantee development, but we have to decide what our priorities are and that's a very difficult decision for every government, including this government. I'm also commenting on what the prime minister said about the spending side of the budget can't do the old one anymore. But I'm adding right now, even the revenue side of the budget can't go back to the way it was. So it can't be that someone in the ministry has the exclusive right not to pay their dues. So this system simply needs to change from the foundation. It cannot happen in 2007 when Croatia renewed its Agreement on the avoidance of Double Taxation with Germany and when it wrote for tax collection the advantage of Germany, and Croatia regulates the infrastructure of our citizens and at the service of our citizens who live here, and the tax is paid by Germany because someone in these negotiations agreed to have the advantage of Germany. Of course they know better than we appreciate your money and of course they're asking for tax payments 3 years ago today. Be careful, it is worth 290m euros in annual incomes based on pensions from Germany. Each pension in Germany above 500 euros is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our pension of over 3400 is taxed by 12%. Has anyone made an effort to explain to these people that paying taxes in Croatia would be cheaper. Did we create a system that protects our citizens and give them advice on how to get rid of that payload because there are tax reliefs there too? Mostly, however, instead of incomeing 50 million kuna per year on the basis of taxes on these pensions our citizens will still have to worry about and everything that makes the standard of living secure on the burden of the state they will continue to pay more than 100 million kuna per year in Germany. The budget isn't ideal, and in fact there isn't an ideal one. It's all a compromise, but it's not good if the compromise is at all costs and if it's for itself. But this isn't a compromise of that kind. This is a compromise between desire and opportunity and too much time is behind us where our wishes have been greatly disproportionate to our possibilities. I move to a part that is in the interest of the Croatian party of pensioners and I find that the budget for pensioners is increased and, after two hungry years, an increase in pensions, i.e. indexation or coordination will be paid in April. The esteemed former Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, does not have to be concerned, as I am too worried that there are only 200 million kunas more than last year, and she estimated that it is too little. And I say that the esteemed Mrs. Kosor should know that the law you passed last year has been made into a budget, i.e. 60 million kuna on the basis of taxes, based on the fact that the supplement has gone into retirement and our pensioners have become taxpayers. They should never have received an add-on that it was according to how the Croatian party of pensioners proposed it, but they should have been given an increased base back in 2007 but were won all these four years because the supplement was not taxed. We should also know that every new pensioner entering the system enters with an average of 20% lower salary, a lower pension, so it is available for indexing pensioners somewhere around 400 million kuna and that will be enough for this year. The untaxable amount of pensions from 3200 to 3400 kuna was increased and talked about indexation, talked about increasing the non-taxable part is never enough, but this is a real compromise between possibilities and wishes that are unlimited. All programmes in the function of living quality in the third lifetime remain. So you can't object to this government that any good program that's focused on the quality of life of the third life age that hasn't been supported. Furthermore, social support, health care, availability of healthcare is maintained at the same level. At the same level, they are particularly needed and the highest participation in health insurance is reduced from 3000 to 2000 kuna. The only thing we're not satisfied with is 3% of the medical contribution for the pensioners. These 55 million kunas will not save the state, but I hope this will be the last year in which they will pay that health contribution, because it is the only 25,000 citizens, now 25,000 citizens who are paying for a health contribution and no one can say that this is an expression of their solidarity with everyone because solidarity is not applied in society. But I live in the hope that this is the last year, and that's how we wrote in plan 21 that we're going to solve this problem. I'm happy to announce even if it means budget rebalance this year, but I'm looking forward to an even fairer distribution of tax burden. There is room for this in the period ahead of us, when we sit in peace, there are also items where it is necessary for the finance ministers to implement this because there is also a reason to do so and there are illogical situations for some people, and there are more than 1000 who receive the highest salary in Croatia at the end of the year to establish the Tax Administration a request for more paid contributions and receive 13 salaries. It's something I've been disagreeing with since 2005 with Mr. Shucker, and it's still going on, and I think it should be dealt with. Not much, but 15 million kunas per year return to those people with the highest salaries in Croatia. It's not our pay to get off that cover. As much as the public thinks this is too much about those salaries that go and over 100,000 kunas a month, and you can't imagine them and there are in Croatia. Therefore, it rejoices with this even fairer distribution with more tax rates because it would be a contribution for one who has more and in some way carries the burden of the crisis to a greater extent. Of course, there could be a lot more talk about the budget, but there's no point repeating it. Today, our colleagues and colleagues will also talk about the details of this budget. I think this is enough from principle positions. And finally, I want to say that it will be difficult for all of us to and the electoral body that is somehow presented here dominantly and which is in the interest of political interest knows that it will be difficult. It will also contribute to the overcoming of this crisis situation in Croatia and the creation of the assumption that, through new development over the year, the two of us are starting to move slowly up, but to create assumptions and share what is earned. The Croatian Retired Party Club will support this budget in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3551	We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3552	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It's an incorrect claim from Mr. Hrelje that retirement will be enough and I'm glad to be comforted that I don't have to worry, but I'm worried, of course, because I can read the budget. It means an increase of 325 million kunas this year, taking into account both the necessity and the need for an entry that follows and an increase in expenditure in that respect from April to October, when that amount will be even higher, says that about 300 million kuna is necessarily missing. However, I would like to remind you that he was talking about the skinny years that we increased the amount for pensions by almost 600 million kuna for 2011 and that increase included in the frozen budget expenditure for 2011. So it's incorrect that he won't miss it, it's true he'll miss it. And since Mr. Hrelja has already announced the rebalancing, then it is clear how it will work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3553	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3554	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja's parliamentary representative said that health care is equally available and guarantees this budget which absolutely does not correspond to the truth. If we see the latest data on the national waiting list, it is evident that in the first month and two days already an increase in the waiting list, but this is also understandable because HZZO has lost almost billions of kuna on the proposal of this budget. Therefore, it is absolutely impossible to reduce the income of HZZO from a billion kuna and to increase the availability of health services. You were also one of the biggest advocates of abolishing 3% of the contributions, and I'll remind you of the words from the campaign, as soon as we get to power, we'll cut 3% of our health contributions. I'm still pushing for that 3% contribution to stay. And I am convinced that this government will not, given the situation, end a 3% contribution in the first year. And it is now visible that the health system is indeed the biggest loser of this budget and we will see the first quarter of this year. I guarantee by this budget that health care will generate, unfortunately, a billion kunas of new debt or debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3555	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the government, her president, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3556	This is one of the calmest discussions about the budget I have seen, and I have seen many and I have participated in many. It's not because in my court because people are too peaceful or it just stopped politics being what politics is, and politics is one conflicting outsmart very often. But I dare say that's because most of us are clear and the citizens are very clear. Maybe some of them, I don't want to leverage some of them here, it was clearer than some of us. But now more people are more or less clear. And that's a very good basis for doing business. This budget I believe we will also agree there is a budget that does not raise anyone. As you've heard, as you've heard, we haven't specifically addressed any of the social interest groups of the Swedish group and sent them messages, we think of you, we care about you especially, you're at our heart. We want to be fair to everyone. Of course we can't meet everyone, we have to have some criteria. I believe they exist in this budget. Because the one at the end who wants to please everyone won't please anyone, but we don't have favorites, I think that's important. And whoever thinks otherwise, let them prove it, but I believe it like this. Here, counterpart Buric of the HDSSB quoted a Bosniak thinker from the 16th century as saying I don't remember the exact name of the thinker, nor can I fully reproduce the quote, but the essence of that quote by what I know is even older. It's just a message about the line. I can't go back in the 13th, 14th century at the time of the first bankers who financed the insatiable rulers of the Middle Ages, Fugger of Ausgburg, the German money houses and the story is always the same. It's very well sublimed in a newer book, and the title of that book is translated from an English bit ironic says "This time it's different: 8 centuries of financial madness", "This time is different" and the authors are trying to prove in themselves that it's not different this time but that every time it's the same. In fact, when a crisis arises or when a crisis arises when a meddles, then the argument of the ruler of the fiscal ruler is sovereign to shake hands and say, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In the Western world when some warned that the world was moving towards a crisis and that the system was unsustainable, that the system of credit in America was unsustainable, that it created a mass of non-refundable loans, that people were encouraged to spend the unsuspected answer, however, but it was not the same as it was 20 years ago, like 70 years ago. It's always that easy-minded answer this time that's different. It's always the same thing, that's the point. It's always a story that one government and another government and the whole set of governments are wasting unresponsibly and irresponsibly and not looking and seeing where it's going. And when the thing comes to the charge that then it's not able to take the necessary measures. In fact, no one ever went bankrupt, at least in recent history, because overnight it became hungry, naked and barefoot, I'm talking about states, I'm talking about sovereign bankruptcy, but because at the moment it became obvious there was no power to make a political decision so that it couldn't anymore and that it was realized that this time it wasn't different than every time it was the same. A lax government, a naive government, sometimes a malicious power that unresponsibly corrupts what doesn't have to worry about what happens tomorrow. And that's the point of this story. We are a left-wing liberal government, we are socially sensitive, that was also the right-wing government in a certain way socially sensitive. We have believed and the entrepreneurial government, we want to facilitate and stimulate those who create and drag ahead to make it easier for them, but at the end of the day, and European experience today says very clearly, there must be fiscal responsibility, there must be knowledge of how much there is, what is spent and what is spent on. And in that sense, we all need to be in a certain way and conservative. I, socially and socially, will sometimes not be conservative, but when it comes to money, and especially money that isn't mine, then I have to be conservative, and that means being responsible. I know, I'm afraid that what I'm saying will be quoted and used in other ways, so I'm building up in advance from the wrong quotes of what I said. But it's a time when we have to be very careful how we have money that we don't have today to create and tomorrow we have it. In that sense, I am glad that this was a civilized debate with little faith that we will adopt this budget. In a year we'll see what we've done, and by then it's up to us to realize that neither this time nor this time in history is different than that the same responsible authority is always irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3557	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3558	Thank you very much. I have a need to correct an incorrect quote, and to remind at the same time of what happened a year or two ago. Mr. Milanovic, the prime minister says this has been one of the calmest discussions ever, certainly, but it is interpreted in the wrong way. So, if we had understood something in the opposition today, it was primarily Mr. Prime Minister that we had a quieter discussion so far that we and the opposition know how to behave stately, because, speaking and critically about your budget, we did not insult, we did not talk about increasing VAT by 2% as a hack and about it, and look at the quotes from the previous debates to peel something from the back of the people etc. etc. And we'll talk about unreasonable spending on that later. Look at the size of the office, your office in the government, and I think that's exactly the example of the unreasonable spending of taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3559	Thank you very much. So the club debate is exhausted. The Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, spoke in the final word and we have concluded that part of the debate. I suggest half a break from 45 minutes to 14.15, and we proceed with the individual debate. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 14.15!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3560	Dear MPs, we can continue our work. I suggest we start an individual discussion. The first one came from a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. This budget is a strong, above all, political message that this is no longer possible, in short, that it cannot be spent more than it can be earned especially in time, in times that have led us to such a budget that is the only one because of and such a situation possible when the destruction of the impersonality has destroyed our economy. Certainly, the budget is not some deus ex machine that will solve problems on its own. Today, however, we also hear from the mouth of those who have led to this, namely those who pushed Croatia into a break-in and who are trying to get out of this budget, from this break-in. But those who just broke out the Croatian state's teeth are now mocking her with this budget that she's a credential. However, this budget, as Mr. Minister said in his opening speech, is also given by the prime minister to provide a realistic picture of the situation. And just if you're not lying in the budget then you really mean it. Its highest quality is precisely in its reality, in the reality of income but also in expenditure. The revenue of 109 billion and the immediate question is whether it is possible to achieve it, of course with an inflation of 2.4% and with an planned annual growth of 0.8%. So, with a nominal cost reduction. First of all, when it comes to budgeting, when it comes to income, let's not forget everything we've been discussing for the past week, so all of that package of tax laws that therefore introduce one discipline but also justice. Who discipline the biggest to whom for years when the simple and public authorities have responded so far in one wrong way or just some kind of appeal and calling for social responsibility. However, these should be put into legal frameworks. Who is given more than he is expected. First of all, they should be talking about those, they were already mentioned here about banks, financial institutions, large corporations that I would simply say, and by the aquis, they have the privilege of getting unlimited profits, and they are limited. Therefore, it is also the responsibility of the national authorities to do exactly with their own mechanisms, and above all through tax policy and especially at times when Croatia is in such a situation that it is asked of them and more. It is also very important to achieve a particular justice in all of this, especially when the widest layers of the population are at stake. There is very important in this, tax policy and even through a tax system where the state simply has to establish a partnership relationship according to the taxpayers. The taxpayer in the state must not look at the one who wants to rob him, but also the state in the taxpayer cannot and must not view him as the one who wants to deceive him. Therefore, if the system is set up like this, I think everyone will be satisfied, not to mention that at the end of the tax invasion, which is huge, and which has just led to the tax system, and otherwise every tax burden on an ordinary citizen, the average citizen is experiencing as a serious injustice. So, when things like this are set up, then not only is it guaranteed to charge income in this way but it is certain that, in due course, we can expect a reduction of taxes, tax burden on citizens. Let us look back, and there has been a debate last week about how certain state institutions have looked kindly towards those whom they should not look through their fingers, and on the other hand, the state has shown great efficiency just when they were the poorest. It's just that when we see how many unpaid claims there are from concessions, we don't have any such registers properly set up. So if the state, and I really think the government thinks they're serious, then it's fundamental, that's what they're often talking about. But that's why every opportunity and occasion should be mentioned in order for us to make this happen, we have to have registers. One serious state has its own registers and are tied to one another. This means that it knows how many of the population, which are its taxpayers, which belongs to its property and which is the property of citizens, but also legal persons. These are the basic settings to implement all of this. Without it, the citizens will be dissatisfied. Someone's always gonna think he's been cut off. All possible, so the registers must be updated and they must be put in place with each other, and then, through the register, here's one coming to me now, and through the defense register, they'll see who was liberating the country, and who on the other hand was liberating the state treasure. If only the state, which I believe is precisely with these control mechanisms would not only be able to but also have to be established. Thus, the state remains the owner of great valuables, great value of real estate and other treasures. So, by proper use, because there are millions who have failed to adequately manage, and knowingly, some have been privileged in a way that they simply were not asked about their debts, about their claim to the state, and then when they did not give such certain taxes that were due to the state, they often owed to the workers themselves. Contributions are of great importance in this regard to the reduction of contributions, so after the increase in VAT, there is a reduction in contributions, but these contributions must be controlled to make them paid primarily for the sake of the worker himself, and then for the sake of the state itself. Here Mr. Minister also pointed out the fiscal responsibility law that obliges the government to do exactly something on the expenditure side. We have today had an unheard contribution in legal thought by the opposition, a representative speaking on behalf of the opposition club says imagine those who were against this law are now sticking to it. It is in this, that those who did not support him should abide by the law without unfortunately obeying the law of those who wrote praises to him. However, such a policy of demagogy and irresponsibility is likely to end. What can be done on the expense side? All the introductions said a lot about it, many who spoke for the club and that it would not be, and we heard from the opposition that it would not be possible to do so. No, that it will be possible to do but it will happen on its own. The Ministry of Justice paid 30 million kuna for a building that doesn't fit them from its own space or space that stood for zero kunas and has moved since 2005 paid more than 30 million kunas. Can you imagine what that means to our users in the judiciary, courts? But the same way that you touch things like that, you have things like that. But it's not even about savings, it's about the normal management of state property, the property that the people of the particular government in the elections have entrusted with acting that way. So, when we mention these expenses, we can also mention the contracts of action. They're really needed somewhere. But paying off contracts for the work of those people who haven't done anything in eight hours to do this afternoon under the deed contract is simply unacceptable. Therefore, the Government is doing what it can with this draft budget. And when someone does what they can do is everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3562	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for the budget debate by the respected representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3563	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, respected finance ministers with associates. Here is today, before us in the Parliament, a proposal for a state budget for 2012 with a projection for the next two years. The word that best illustrates the essence of this proposal for a state budget is responsibility. And on that word, I'd like to start my debate today. I would especially like to put emphasis on that very word of responsibility in this debate. What was most missing in making previous budgets. Bills made by previous governments. The responsibility of the Government and of us today in the Assembly entrusted by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the leadership of this country, ensuring the sustainable development of our country, providing perspective for young people and social security to our fellow citizens of older age. The state budget reflects the very essence of the very essence of the existence of a central state, it exists to provide citizens with a certain standard of service and protection. The state budget is not how some think a private bank of bitches from which, if necessary, friends, business partners, acquaintances and private ones draw money. Today is primarily the responsibility of this government to preserve the long-term stability of the system, to launch development processes and to open up new employment opportunities. Responsibilities favouring employment in the real sector, not unreasonable accumulation of state administration and its costs. Responsibilities are primarily reflected in the fact that this is the first Croatian budget that envisions a reduction in deficits, which has been steadily growing in the past few years. It's exactly the biggest change this government has made, which is a policy towards the deficit. In the plan of the last government, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's government, the planned deficit was 15 billion kuna, but ended up on a figure of 17 billion kunas of realised deficit. This government intends to put an end to such a policy. Therefore, the planned deficit in this budget is slightly less than 10 billion kuna and 9.9 billion kuna, respectively. This government is expressing its firm intention to fight for the next four years to further reduce the deficit and hope to reach below 5 billion kuna. Despite the fact that all previous years in this country are from governors, opposition, foreign and domestic analysts, etc. Warn of the necessary reduction in this particular deficit and the cutting of consumption, the previous government either had no knowledge or had no courage, responsibility or simply had no will to work towards reducing deficits and to stop this unreasonable waste of money it simply lacked and which it borrowed on extremely high interest rates. Of course, debts and commitments should be respected and reimbursed, however, should no longer occur that the future generations of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are unwisely committed because someone is in charge of some money that he intends to spend unreasonablely, which he has committed not to resuscitate the deficit, start production, encourage investment, and most simply dare to say buy votes. Because then how to explain billions and billions of incentives, let's say in agriculture that didn't result in any increase in production. Isn't that kind of a waste of money? It wasn't spent on investment development, on new employment. It was spent buying social peace and vote. Public money didn't have a sense of purpose. However, this budget sends a clear message that it ceases with such practice, ends with the country's over-consumption by patching up holes and spending more than can be spent. This budget wants to create a better climate for the economy and society itself. The government is finally turning to pro-katative measures, not just spending. I repeat, because this should be repeated over and over again this is the first state budget to be reduced, not increased. It saves in the budget as it has already been said earlier amounts to nearly 4 billion kuna in nominal amount, but the savings can be realistically expected to be as much as 7 billion kunas because inflation and GDP growth are not included here despite today being heard from the other side of this assembly. This is not included in the revenue side of the budget. It is therefore realistic to expect that the level of savings at the end of the year will be even higher. It should be said that this budget is very cautious and conservatively complex and at the end of the year can indeed be expected to be far greater savings than those expressed today. Priority is given to fostering the economy, so those activities that fill the state budget, provide money for development, investment, production, new values, new employment and job creation. I spoke earlier about the unreasonable consumption of money that was not available, and we will have colleagues and colleagues very soon to speak more closely when we analyse and discuss the findings of state audits. But today I would like to say that, in the 2010 report of 16 ministries in the Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, the unconditional opinion of the State Audit was given only 5 of them. All others have seen major irregularities in business, above all in the number of unwarranted overtime hours, an enormous number of operating contracts and a certain one. Imagine even in the mass of salaries in some ministries spent up to 7 times what was allowed by law, 2% of the total wage mass for work contracts. There were also irregularities in public procurement, subsequent contracts by annexing the contract, and thus the price of contracted transactions would bounce at millions of amounts, etc. But we have said that we will not talk about the past, so I will further say that responsibility will eventually work and determine in some of the failures of some other institution of this country, but it is important today to say that this government has courage, capacity and, most importantly, support for the introduction of change in society. This 2012 budget certainly shows that. Each cutting must be a function of developing and preserving jobs, not of stagnation of the economy and society. So there's a big battle ahead of the government for economic growth. It is realistic to expect an increase in investment and then economic growth because this government is working to dissipate the economy that we have shown some of the measures that have already been adopted in this House last week. The government is further expected to work on the reconstruction of the state sector, especially in state-owned enterprises because companies have to do rational business and are expected to promote what is rational and which will lead to increased production and new jobs, that responsible and rationally manage public money. Responsibility is the main element of this draft budget, the responsibility of this government is great in preserving the stability of the country. This budget I believe guarantees that stability. Trust is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have given us in the last parliamentary elections, and this budget and measures are largely publicised. The citizens are aware that change in direction is necessary, but they also have confidence in the government supported by this parliamentary majority. In Croatia, most citizens have somehow regained optimism and confidence that things can be started better and that all together in this beautiful country can live in the end better. At the very beginning of its work, the government of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic showed clear determination and courage for this necessary change of direction, and I am giving my support and confidence at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3564	Thank you very much. We have two replicas for your presentation. The first is Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3565	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start with... times c2. [[You don't understand.]] This obviously in relativity theory can pass, this pure mathematics, but for someone who may have had a very good, excellent, obviously these indicators of the math budget do not match. Since we are already planning a deficit of 9.9 billion kuna at the beginning, a new debt of 21 billion kuna, and in total we want to charge more than 2.5 billion kuna with these measures, which is absolutely impossible and unreally planned, given that there are between 500 and 1000 people left without a job every day. So I'm very interested, it can be in the theory of relativity, how to increase that tax and tax revenue in a country where we daily record the growth of the unemployed. On the other hand, we also have today on the streets of those whom this government is cutting down and supporting and the possibility of even surviving this year. It's dairy, it's agriculture, and this budget is most pounding on agriculture, according to Slavonia and Baranja, because just now Slavonia and Baranja are cutting almost 815 million kunas of support. That what the milkmen say is true here is the document Dukat wrote on January 20, 2012 where he predicts a price of 2.30 kuna per litre of milk. On the other hand, this is what the minister has been claiming all along and acting as UNPROFOR, as a Moderator, as UNPROFOR did during the Homeland War. This is also the invitation of the Minister, but also to the Government to protect Croatian production and Croatian producers so that they will not fail because they are...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3566	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3567	Which, among other things, means those who make a full state budget in production, unlike the state administration who spends that budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3568	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3569	Thank you. Comrade Vinkovic, you have very skillfully used the Institute of Replications to put in with the subject of the milkman. It's your legitimate right, but I don't see that too much of a reference to my previous debate. As far as relativity theory is concerned, we know what the formula is and everything can be said to be relative. However, as regards aid in agriculture, they only make sense if they bring in an increase in revenue and an increase in production. The way they've been given so far didn't make much sense. No one said that these incentives should be lifted, they just need to be targeted, they need to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3570	Thank you very much. The next respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Vrbat, here I am really going to look back at this exhibit of yours, and in the part where you talk about courage and responsibility and in general your exposure, as well as Mr. Dragovan, I believe that a great leader from North Korea would be happy to talk about it. But this government really had the courage and responsibility that on the first day it sat down on a very democratic principle a so - called one so - called. in a people called the Comadina Law. We know what it is, today we know what's going on in that county. Then, she had the courage to introduce politics in all the ministries. So all that was in the public competition they replaced it. You said in a neat manner, bravely, well done, that you would determine who would sit where. So also this government had the courage to decide that in the supervisory boards the right, so there's whoever he is, he's not quite in jail yet, but here he is not yet officially convicted, he can come, he's being prosecuted. We know why she had the courage because she had to do so finally and their first vice president was under it, and then she had the courage three times to increase her budget to the Office of the Government itself. So she also had the courage to set up a demining office where Mrs. Racan, whose budget is worth billions and 100,000 kunas, and only on wages is spending something like 890 or 900000 kuna. So I was interested in the same thing, but we'll see later in the debate why this office was founded when we have the Mine Action Centre and we know what she's done and the former government is there. Well, you know so much about courage and responsibility, and of course you will. the responsibility to assess voters. [[Intruder Leko: Time respected MPs.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3572	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3573	Dear colleagues of the twilight, you are certainly very brave when you accuse this government of bringing in a document that has honestly been copied from your government, which is what the supervisory committees are all about. Yes, we have suspended competitions for members of the Supervisory Board, because we believe that the Government must appoint people and bear such responsibility rather than hide behind public tenders. Your public tenders were only missing to publish a picture of the person who must be in the text of that competition. As for the supervisory boards and the entire controversy that's been going on about it. I wonder how many people have read that decision and that sentence where that word is repeated unjustly condemned. I invite you to read, open up on the government's pages that decision in point 9 makes me the previous agenda and read exactly what it's about. Don't talk about it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3574	Thank you very much. A respected representative named Dragica Zgrebec came forward. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. According to the definition of the state budget, the redistribution of a certain part of the social gross product is always in order to meet certain national and social needs as well as the needs of socially endangered population groups. But it is also a mirror of every single government policy that suggests it, and it is the most important political act in one calendar year. This is the fourth state budget we make in the time of the crisis, so after 2008, when the whole world actually got stuck in financial and then in the economic crisis and all countries introduced certain anti-recession measures that broke through their state budgets. Unfortunately, in three budgets, we had few such anti-recession measures, so here's the last budget, which we're going to discuss soon and come up with a deficit of, the proposed deficit of 15 billion kuna or even 4.3% of gross social product. So this is the time when a mature consciousness is total in society that we can no longer spend more than we earn and that our deficit can no longer be fully based on credit debt. Unfortunately, our citizens have seen this need before than we have seen that we are making state budgets, and now we are in a situation that for the first time we have, we must propose a reduction in the state budget. What's our status? We have a very long period of economic downturn and most importantly we have a significant decline in investment in the last two, three years, high unemployment and low employment. You don't know what it is, I said yesterday what's bigger, or what's the bigger problem. What do you have a large number of unemployed people that you have to finance from tax revenues or that you have such a small share of employees in a working-age population who fell to almost 40%. So, from that you come to the conclusion very quickly that you have to take. We had a drop in industrial production last year. No country can exist only in tertiary activities. Service activities, tourism, trade are desirable. But if you don't have a stable industry that participates significantly in the social gross product, then you don't have stability either in this case of tax revenues or in the growth of social gross product. And now we have this big problem of how to compensate for the high share of consumption and public consumption and consumption, the individual consumption that brought high growth of social gross products, and how to compensate for it by real sector or by larger investment. The question is, what do we do now? So last week we discussed these changes within the tax and tax system, which we will also discuss in the follow-up of this session. Therefore, to reduce and increase certain tax and paratax duties, stimulate investment, stimulate investments in particular in the real sector, if a certain level of state and public investment is added. What are the foundations of this proposed budget? Under one, economic growth must be based on competitiveness and investment investments. Low competitiveness actually excludes us from the market not only of the foreign market but also of Croatia's domestic market and Croatia's entry into the European Union will actually be the problem of the incompetence of our products. We have very few products, especially industrial products that we can compete on abroad, and tomorrow it will become a problem on the domestic market. The second is the protection of socially endangered groups of citizens, and that is, through several laws that we passed last week can actually be read. So it's an increase in tax deduction. It's lowering the VAT rate to some of the food products. It's a reduction in the participation for hospital treatment, and then what's announced but we haven't passed that law yet. It refers to a re-indexation of pensions. So what is realistically possible in this time seems and I think it is well thought out to which level you can go to reduce certain tax duties or to what level you can go with increasing certain tax duties. There is also the financial consolidation that is necessary. So the deficit reduction. I've already said, the high share of deficits in the social gross product is no longer sustainable, and we have to act not only fiscally but also lead financial responsibility. So, on the one hand, to collect everything that is possible and what must be collected, does not wait for tax debts and taxes to be accumulated to the state at such a level that the company has to go into bankruptcy, so it is tolerated, but then financial responsibility because we are almost equalised by the amount of blocked bills that have reached 42 billion kuna with real money in circulation. So there is yet another major task to help market companies have a product, to get out of this situation and to be able to do business in the future. So that's where all the creditors and states and banks and suppliers have to be found at the same job. What's the budget look like? So the revenues are at 108 billion kuna. Of these, tax revenues are precisely due to an increase in VAT rates of nearly a billion and 600 million. At the same time, the reduction in health contribution reduces revenues by 2.4 billion and thus increases from 1.4% of total incomes not included in inflation and projections of growth rates, in fact, by compensation for borrowing, which is the sale of assets, and the privatisation revenues of 2 billion kuna are planned. It should be said that Croatia bad masters with its property that after 20 years we do not even have a list of the total assets we have. We don't care about the property that should be put into operation. As far as the expenditures are concerned they're here already said for the first time smaller. Smaller by 3.5 billion nominally shown in the budget. They're with some breakthroughs involving domestic fund components somewhere around 4 billion kunas. I think it is important here to point out that it is necessary because in the future it will be even more important for Croatia to be able to have projects to withdraw all the European funds available to it. At the end of such incomes and expenditures result in a deficit of around 10 billion or, more specifically, 9.9 billion kuna. It is both nominally and per share in GDP significantly smaller than it was the 2011 budget. Therefore, it is shown that the unsustainable situation is that the state is constantly in constant debt under increasingly unfavourable conditions for a deficit that goes mostly into consumption, therefore not into investment, and also on the reprogramme of commitments made because we are unable to pay the commitments made. The realization of such a concise budget actually requires a high degree of responsibility and supervision of the spending of tax funds and I am convinced that the Government, and especially the Ministry of Finance, which should be the supervisory authority, will manage to preserve this level of budget in revenue, expenditure and deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3576	Thank you very much. We have two replicas for your presentation. The first is Honored Representative Vinkovic Zoran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is clear to me that the whole SDP is now in a position to defend this budget, since it is a very well-known way of doing it. And indeed this budget is the most important political act of this government because everything is visible from it. However, if the budget itself represents one redistribution of this raised money or tax revenue, then this is a very poor redistribution since this budget is a direct blow to local self-government units and means further poverty of local self-government units. also one new centralisation of Croatia at least in this fiscal part, as that amount rises from 92% to almost 96%. And this spilling from hollow to empty this mini tax reform brings nothing to good local self-government units. On the other hand, our mouths are full of helping the economy, so ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary deputies and SDP deputies I urge you to understand that today on the street there are no people from hanging out with their tractors, but only for the reason that they are being cut by support. Almost a billion kunas in the Ministry of Agriculture, while those who process their products are blackmailing their prices. So I invite you to come to your senses and finally stop talking about huge savings of $ 3.4 billion because we haven't even started spending this budget yet. On the other hand, this 9.9 billion kuna deficit will be replaced again by a new task. And that's what HZD was doing. He went from hollow to empty and owed Croatia. Stop that kind of politics because I personally don't care how many skeletons It's coming out of the cobank's closet or out of the cosoric closet. [[Intruder: Time Honored Representative.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3578	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3579	I'll start at the end. When you have a deficit, it's not spilling from hollow to empty. It is a very realistic task and a burden for the future and for a slightly longer period not just over one year. So much for that. Local self-government units, we have a law to increase our share of income tax. The fact is that certain units of local self-government if you lower all tax duties on its territory won't be enough to perform certain decentralised functions and there must also be awareness that we can't have so many units of local self-government and regionally perhaps, but they have to decide what citizens want to finance. Whether they want to finance their community or not. As far as subsidies are concerned and to help the economy. The biggest aid to the economy is when it has a regulated financial market, so it does not have to deal with selling goods that it will charge. In other words, that there is financial discipline and that payment deadlines are maintained, that there are low taxes and that there is safety in business. All of this, unfortunately, today, our economic operators do not have or do not have enough. And as for agricultural subsidies, we will still have to adapt to what the EU has today. We may not be ready for this right now, but we will also have to analyse in one way how to say the food chain, from production, processing and trade, who gets the most, and there will have to be some way to put the chain in place, i.e. find the best measure between production, processing and trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3580	Thank you very much. The next one was reported by a respected representative, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3581	Your Honor, Mr. President. I will later in my discussion about the budget and just look back at what my colleague Zgrebec said was in the Croatian people or in society, I don't know what she said exactly, matured consciousness. I'd say she's matured consciousness in the SDP after a long time of unconsciousness they've lived in over the years. You do it now, I ask you to listen to me. So you were unconscious when the past government tried to improve the state of...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3582	Mr. Representative, call your consciousness, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3583	All right, all right. I'm still hoping for full consciousness. So she tried to call the unions and tore up that contract where the contract between employment and employers and the state could last for years, as it is now consciousness at this point. The SDP has ignored it, and therefore ignores one measure that has improved the situation that you today advocated and which through the media says that the sea is being introduced, that is, forced to introduce it. Your President Milanovic has publicly signed that this is not necessary. You were unconscious when the government tried 1% of the VAT, raising 1% of the VAT to fix something. Now you raise 2% and say you've regained consciousness. Then the election came where you didn't say anything, and now you're saying you won't tell me what you're going to do because you didn't know, you were unconscious. Now you've come to realize that everything you're saying needs to be done. It's a list of good wishes. And I'm telling you, this is all fog...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3584	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3585	Thank you. Because at the end of the year, there'll be dolls in the budget instead of Kukuriku.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3586	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3587	Well, I've been thinking about whether in this consciousness and unconsciousness it's worth reporting at all, but I did say that in that unconsciousness under the quotes that my colleague Marasovic is talking about, the SDP club gave over 30 laws that regulated anti-recession measures, and in part those that were brought by the then government headed by Mr Sanader, and then in 2.5 years you couldn't operate and implement them. So much for your consciousness and our unconsciousness. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3588	Thank you very much. We move forward fully aware of the conditions and responsibilities we have entered. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Here I will think after this is whether our doctor Marasović is not a dermatovenerologist but perhaps an anesthesiologist when he talks about consciousness and unconsciousness,... etc. [[You don't understand.]] But let's go back to today's budget. Spending more than we can, life on a loan without any special work, patching holes in the budget is certainly the time behind us, a policy that is abandoned, as our prime minister said today is not going the way it is. Citizens are aware of all this, more aware but ever and have shown their consciousness in fact when they left the former government's trust in elections. Why, precisely because this is exactly the kind of former government that wanted to continue its policy by proposing actually planning a 15 billion kuna deficit. And this budget, like all budgets so far, is actually a reflection of the policy of one government, a reflection of the government's objectives. For the first time, we have a budget reduction, but also dedicated priorities, which are encouraging the economy or insurance, in fact, I would say the release of money for investment. Today we heard in the opening statement of the Minister of Finance something about the incompetence of the economy, high labour prices, i.e. intrusions, parafiscal burdens that naturally burden the economy. This is why the discharge took place, by abolishing parafiscal burdens, by reducing the general rate of contributions from health insurance, i.e. by increasing the non-taxable share of salaries or pensions. At times like this, when we look at our budget in the shortfall of money, in a crisis this budget can actually be said by human beings and protected most of all. Let us remember only in the last 8 years because of some ad hoc solution, non-thinking how a system, pension system, has been systematically devastated, and pensioners have been brought to the edge and material existence, as well as of course moral existence. Which is the result of all of this, it's actually such that this system actually doesn't look like the system anymore, it's not like it but every day we've had a growing increase in social earthquakes. And now after those eight years, our pensioners have brought the most financial burden, much more than their economic situation allows. Let us also remember that 1/3 of pensioners live below the poverty line, that 6% of them actually cover the needs of 60% of basic life needs. The pension discrepancies over the past two years have been taking away, and now I'm going to tell you a figure of 1150 kuna and maybe you'll tell me what it is. However, with such small incomes, when each pensioner repeatedly turns that kuna over his arm, that means it to them. For the state, it was 690 million savings. But given the state of affairs, if it isn't too much of a victim of our pensioners, it was a vain sacrifice. Let's just see how it was spent on renting ministry buildings. Today, we have examples of what they are in the daily press, and even some rented rooms are empty. Therefore, by reconciling that we announced a pension, it will not be great because the average salary has not been raised, and one such injustice that the government has passed has irresponsibly brought to our pensioners. So we said that at the beginning and we stick to it that pensions are the last line of defense, and right here in the case of that expenditure is increased due to such equalization. Also, at a time of economic crisis, there will be a greater number of unemployment. Therefore, the planned expenditure of the Employment Office is higher by 4.5%. When jobs are lost, of course, all activities focus on incentives for employment. A series of active policy measures and requalifications are carried out which must be directed exactly where they should be. This is all in order to keep the unemployed on the labour market. Then these are volunteering projects, etc. Here I would also mention our model of Dubrovnik that we have modified and what the state suggests in this way we have hired young trainees with completed college 70 of them, and another piece of information to give them a voucher and they're looking for where they're going to work. Of course we control that such a company that hires them to pay all the contributions and I can tell you that we have a great result that we have 75% of those who have received a traineeship to stay in their jobs and one of the measures in crisis situations. One more thing about rationalization. In fact, every citizen of ours expects us to really be rational to spend and watch where we spend every kuna they pay. I'll mention this Ministry of Social Policy and Youth when we have the information that 40 million kunas have been spent on information, but it doesn't work. Next, 70,000 kuna is spent on the maintenance of the IT sector daily. We therefore hold that the structure and rationality will give us a chance, so I will also say for this ministry that it will give the chance that 6 billion and 27 million kunas will be used in quality and rational terms both for social policy and for young people, so the new formation of such a single ministry shows one rationality. There's no increase or significant reduction. Rights and services have been maintained. However, given the crisis, a greater number of social rights users are expected. We're wondering how we're gonna do it. Well, that's exactly the rationalization. Let us remember that so far social measures have been obtained from a variety of backgrounds. And those who were resourceful with their unhappiness and resourcefulness actually used that system and went well. This is why unique data should be made, a single-seat database or a review of all administrations with of course decentralisation and deinstitutionalisation. And I must stress that deinstitutionalisation can also be saved. On the one hand, it's a more humane relationship, and on the other hand it's cheaper. Therefore, I can conclude that in front of this government, in front of society, there is a difficult challenge for all of us. We need everyone's support. We asked, our government asked for trust, we won the election. We now demand of course and patience and receive the support of all benevolents. There's no room for politicization. The budget actually shows an important turnaround. You can tell by the deficit planned from 15 to 10 billion kuna. And I can also tell you that today, the finance minister was still encouraged when he said that if there was a higher income that he would not go into expenditures, he would indeed serve to reduce the deficit. It's also a message we don't spend more than we do, so this budget has the ambition of those whose crisis is most difficult. That's exactly why I had my discussion and took these two ministries I was talking about. That is why I believe in reality and in a positive turn in Croatia's politics and I call on you, of course, others to vote for our budget, i.e. for the first budget of the Government of Zoran Milanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3590	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed vice president of the House of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting my colleague's incorrect claim that the last government was unfair to the pensioners. I remind you that last year, we paid back 820 million kuna and 2009 and 2010. So, at the most difficult years when we were struggling with the crisis, we were paying back the debt that the previous SDP government said didn't exist. As for rationality. So, I'm also correcting in my opinion the inaccuracies of the House of Representatives on the rational spending of this government. I will mention that the Office of the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, increases the cost of services by 1297%, material expenditure by 577%, employee costs by 224%, expenditure on material and energy by 178%. It's not a rational waste of taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3592	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Dujomir Marasovic, applied for the replica. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3593	I'll be shorter this time. A colleague said that the new justice for the pensioners was recalculated pensions and by what I listened to and by what I remember how much more I was aware about about 30 kunas a month like this. And you know what these measures will do to increase VAT from, to 25%, etc. You know how many pensioners, how much their standard of living will be reduced. You do the math. I'm telling you 5 to 10% total. Their currents are increasing, their water, their phone, their breathing air. You've squeezed the whole company, retired people the most because they have the least. Therefore, do not demagoguely say that you have improved the status of pensioners with 30 kunas a month, and their real life will increase for sure I am not going to be running 500 or 1000 kuna a month. That's what I'm asking you more to appreciate all of us here don't be so into demagogy. And let's not say I didn't answer my colleague's phone, you know what. Unfortunately, I don't want to, I wish it was different and I don't like it but we're still spending what we didn't earn. Well, our government said we'd spend 10 billion more than we'll make this year. No, we'll spend more than we'll get. So don't even say it. We're going to spend more than we've earned this year too, it's just a matter of how much and how, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3594	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3595	Thank you very much. ... VAT increase is up by 1.6%. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] And any increase or equalization is a debt that we and the moral debt must not only finance but the moral debt that we must give to our pensioners. Whether he was, it wasn't a big deal because I said in the discussion that it wasn't a big deal because there was no big salary increase. Therefore, each kuna of the pensioner is collected several times over the finger. And that's why every kuna is very important to them, and this equality is our moral debt to the pensioners. And about VAT, I told you how much it raises prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3596	Thank you very much. It was an answer to the replica of the respected representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. A respected representative, Marin Jurjevic, applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3597	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we all know well here because we're professional politicians that the budget is an essential political act. And I'm really surprised when distinguished counterpart Jadranka Kosor says the Kukuriku coalition in its pre-election campaign has not announced a budget like this. My fellow citizen, my counterpart, Duja Marasovic, says the Kukuriku coalition was unconscious in the campaign. He says you were unconscious during the campaign. Mrs. Honorable Representative twilight acts as if she's trying to race a bob on an athletic track, so she pushes him, jumps, and he's standing in a mouse, always the same. You little girl. We had one at school. I didn't miss the subject, you'll see that I didn't, you were missing the subject saying exactly what I'm talking about right now. We had one in class that would pick up chemistry class, and then it would fit biology. Then she'd say, but my dear child, this is chemistry, not biology. And she'd answer and I'd learn. She learned the wrong subject at the wrong time, in the wrong place, whatever you want wrong. That's how you do it. You seem to forget you're acting like nothing happened. Well, you've had your most difficult loss since you existed in the election. And instead of wondering why, what kind of calculations we made when the people punished us so terribly while this opposition then, like us, slept unconsciously, didn't sleep, kept silent, and the people punished us. Well, imagine what would have happened if we had spoken, and you think we're human. The thing is, we did speak, and the people said theirs in the election. But these discussions of yours, I'm not going to say that you're unconsciously in a state of collective psychosis that convinces yourself that nothing happened. My people happened this is politics. You're grounded, you've been delivered the bill. The punishment in politics is the result if it's bad. Be aware of that. This budget wasn't announced. Every sentence, every sentence, every number sings about change, every one. This is the first budget, so Milanovic is the only prime minister, Minister Linic is the only finance minister so far in the history of the existence of the Croatian state who have brought and proposed a budget that is both nominally and realistically smaller. What's going on in you doesn't drastically, in our opinion, reduces the intensity of what this government wants to do. And you know what this government wants to do? He wants to do what his colleague Marasovic said, we continue to spend not earned. That's what you were doing. We want to break it up, so you can't spend what you don't have if you don't agree to the abraca bebara politics, left-handed politics, right-handed pockets, black bags running by the officials, and people crying, crying and staying hungry, miserable, miserable and in the state in which they are now, which we inherited with the responsibility to try to get this society out of the situation you left that society in. The truth is, what is not there has been spent, and that is what wants to end. This is why this is the draft budget. The truth is that in Croatia the industry was destroyed, it was true, it was a long-term process. The truth is, we need re-industrialization. It all happened as the majority of us in this House argued with us who were opposition whether we were in crisis or recession. It's like fighting about how many horses have teeth, and no one's ever thought to count it. Well, my people, some things are so clear that everyone turns out to be stupid who doesn't see them. No offense, so there's clear stuff. Let this government begin with all the responsibility it has accepted, with all the burden you have left on her back and now start talking in a society that has been eaten by corruption where 85% of the citizens think they live, that it is the greatest cancer of early society. The society that has lost, which has destroyed the dignity of not only the citizens but also the call that we are dealing with, the dignity of politicians, but also because of what created a stereotype about us as thieves, criminals, workers, dambos, bloodsuckers, and I wonder why and who participated in the creation of such a stereotype. So that's a framework where we have to act politically. This budget is an important political act, no matter how far you think it is from the subject, is actually an attempt to respond and return this society to reality, not within the frames of the worst kind of ideology as a twisted consciousness. Consciousness, not unconsciousness. No, you know, Carl Mannheim is a sociologist, not to bother you with the problems he's dealt with, he's made a syntax of free floating intelligence... You know, you can no longer be a free floating politician or a free floating intellectual while a lot of people crawl over because others put him in a position here. [[The speaker speaks German, he doesn't understand.]] And the normal thing is that he wants to get on his feet, that he wants to live with dignity. Without severe cuts, no great victims will be. I'm telling you, we got a job that nobody would want, let alone ourselves, but we caught him, and that's why I'm grateful to those who should have done this, even if it didn't seem to you, that's the hardest thing. That's why today, according to how public opinion at least responds to the polls being produced, responds positively to the openness of the finance minister and so to say not lying, but speaking here is the situation, we want to do this, we're going to be hard, we're going to be torn off here, we're going to have to make it so that tomorrow we can all live normally. In that name, I appeal that at least we're real, and we're not living a free float, but just a floating political caste. First we had gangs, then they stopped, and then they flew the caste. Well, I'm against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3598	Thank you very much. We have a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure for your presentation. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm appealing to you because I've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I think that article 209 was injured, but also some other... to prevent this kind of debate. [[You don't understand.]] Mr. Representative Jurjevic, speaking of HDZ, says we have been affected by collective psychosis. He also said a series of other insults. So I ask you to prevent such debates. As you know, so far we are trying to hold reasonable debates in this House, to talk about arguments. Neither MP Jurjevic nor anyone from the SDP will shut their mouths to HDZ representatives that we are giving our views, our arguments, in support of our conclusion that this budget is not good and that neither the income nor the expenditure party is balanced, but I ask that we do not be punished for our views by such disqualifications as the representative Jurjevic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3600	Thank you very much. I think counterpart Marin Jurjevic had a nice subtle debate at the level of political speech, analytical and political speech, and if he was anyplace a little sharper then it was a reaction to Dujomir Marasovic's qualifications. Thank you very much. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the replicas. The first for the replica, Mr. Jurjevic, was registered by the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3601	I'll always be a little lighter on the localpathic line because in my consciousness, in my soul towards Marina Jurjevic, it's a little lower intonation. Let him use a sword to call the bowels mixed, but I'll never do it the way he does. I just wanted to tell Mr. Jurjevic, he said what would have happened if we had spoken in the campaign. Marine, we'd lose the election, we wouldn't win the election. You, sir, know that elections are not just won on the basis of programs, the programs were similar, these elections were won or lost more or less for other reasons, we all know that. Now let me tell you something, one more sentence. I am sorry that most speakers on the left are appearing and boasting that this is the first minister and the first one to make a smaller budget than the previous one. Well, that's sad for people, that's bad for all of us. Well, it better be a bigger budget. In conditions where there was no recession, under conditions of growth of GDP and the budget of 10 billion a year or slightly less, the SDP left 2004. There are 330,000 unemployed more than this government has left you in crisis conditions, about 330,000. Marine, that's the point. So in the conditions of growth you left more unemployed than this government was in the condition of a crisis that was two years ago, it wasn't called true, but it was left to the unemployed almost less or the same than you left us at the age of growth. Well, of course the ministers put a higher budget because it grew GDP, etc., because the budget grew. And who should boast more now that this is the first minister to make a smaller budget. It's nothing to brag about, I repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3602	Thank you very much. In response to the replica, fellow respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3603	If anyone in this room finds themselves hurt by my words, no matter what I think about what I'm saying, I apologize to him. But I don't think I had any intention of insulting anyone, personally I don't think I offended anyone or the party. I was talking about psychosis, here's Duja talking about unconsciousness, I'm talking about psychosis. In order to understand each other better, that's why I mentioned it to you about this if we talked about it, it was a style figure from my colleague Marasovic you weren't telling your friend about. It's a normal thing that we talked about the campaign, that we were in the campaign. I just wanted to tell you in that campaign we were very subtle, very dignified, and we were very careful not to hurt your party or anyone else on your part. You had different PRs, different advisors, and we're such pitomatists in our own way. We used to go pytomo, too. You went a little angry. Ha people is the Duje River, Duje, there you are, Marine here. Here we are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3604	Thank you, dear colleague Jurevic. The next one was reported by a respected representative, Đuro Popiac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the way this government is thinking about fighting for economic recovery, so for re-industriousization, it speaks for the fact itself, for example, in the positions of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts where all the figures are reduced. Therefore, all support for medium and small entrepreneurship will be less and some will be completely abolished. Furthermore, the tax coup itself, which took place on Friday through the election of tax laws and VAT and dividend taxes, directly goes to the burden of natural entrepreneurs and businessmen. It also means industry, and the positions that talk about the growth of unemployment funds obviously say that you expect further growth and uncontrollable growth of the unemployed. And the way you fought for shipbuilding when we fought a truly bloody and bitter battle for the rescue of Croatian shipyards, for the restructuring programme and the conclusion of the negotiations. You stood at the head of a column of dissatisfaction, justified dissatisfaction of workers, wanted to go to the streets, wanted to send them to Zagreb and did everything to prevent the completion of all the efforts we had for Croatian shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3606	Thank you very much. Replication response. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3607	I mean, I'm very surprised to see Mr. Poppie end up with some heavy lies like this. I've never talked anyone into the streets, and I think it's really bad for some society when the street is the only answer to the existing situation. As far as the smugglers are concerned, I've always been in favour of defending shipbuilding, defending the Split Square and its interests, and you've pompously put your last contracts with Jadroplov, so today you can see what's wrong with those ships, what about the contracts, and someone could do the stove. It wasn't me. These are your greatest successes that are being discovered today not as towers of cards but as arching not only of money, but of the fates of the squares. And this budget strengthens the economy and wants to boost the economy because this country will only get out of the crisis if we have a strong economy. We will be able to live as a society only if we produce. Well, you can't just live on the black borschts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3608	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. The debate of 10 minutes was attended by a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3609	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister. So encouraged in fact by several replicas, by several replicas or corrections of incorrect allegations I will begin my debate in the hope that I will prevent today in some way manipulating and misleading and speaking false in a small segment of the draft budget, which is when it comes to the draft budget of the Office of the Prime Minister. In fact, there are persistent percentages here of the increase in the Office of the Prime Minister in relation to the former Prime Minister's office, and I consider myself to have been deliberately refuted by the fact that by the government's regulation, this current Government Public Relations Office has fallen under the Office of the Prime Minister. And it's very easy to say incorrectly, not to say another word from a speech on behalf of the club, so it went on to correct incorrect allegations and to talk through replicas about huge percentages of the increase. The Office for Public Relations is now part of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and when you finally look at it then you can see that the office of the former Prime Minister together with the Office for Public Relations amounted to 8 million kuna last year, and the Prime Minister's Office is now proposing 8 million 391 thousand and 500 kuna, which means 2,000 kuna more or about 4%, and I will say probably, not likely, but certainly because it is domesticated and paid by a former government spokesman who has the right under the law for 6 months of full salary and 6 months of half salary. And when you subtract that, you will see that the budget, the proposed budget for the Prime Minister's Office, has not increased compared to what the Deputy Prime Minister's Office had along with the Public Relations Office. This is what I was obliged to say because I believe that you deliberately deceive the public and don't tell the truth to the end. Look at the budget of last year, these two offices, and that's exactly what the Prime Minister's office is about now. I volunteered for the debate primarily which I would like to perhaps only a few sentences in particular, which is that I think we should say and repeat in today's debate that this is the first time that the expenditure side of the budget is reduced by more than 3 and a half billion kuna, that finally in the draft budget for this year we descend on the deficit below 10 billion kuna. Everyone who thinks it's not enough and thinks it could and more afraid they're wrong. I think it was going to be a bigger cut so that it could endanger stability, but primarily I think that the greater burdens neither our citizens nor our economy could stand absolutely. What I would also like to emphasise in this debate, but it does mean to remind myself of some things that, as far as the SDP Club is concerned, in early 2008 we dated a series of bill proposals that we then persistently complemented and repeated both in 2009 and in 2010 where we made clear to the then government especially when it came to the debate on each of the budgets that we feel that it is necessary in a different way to regulate our tax policy, that it is necessary at the same time to think on the one hand about the population, therefore primarily for the poorest citizens, and on the other hand, about entrepreneurship. The laws we have proposed and then on several occasions we have also proposed the Law on Changes and Supplements to VAT and the Law on Change of Profit Taxes, and on Income, and Employment Intermediation Laws, the question of interest tax, etc. So with a series of laws systematically over the last few years, the SDP club has been going to this House, but every time more or less we've been told we've had a laugh on the other side because it was thought that what we're proposing absolutely is not necessary. Today, however, we are where we are, and we are very much showing that this is necessary. We would also like to point out in particular, and this is precisely because this is also about the adoption of the 2011 budget, that there are a number of laws left in the procedure even in the 11th month 2010 which showed how and how we think we should edit and how we should look at the state budget, but they stayed today when you look at the documentation in the procedure. That means they never came to the debate in the last assembly. I therefore believe that this budget is actually the expression of a very consistent policy I am talking about the SDP that we have shown over the last few years, in every possible debate and when there is no need to talk about the crisis as such in this House of Malta. So I think that thanks to this very consistency that all of this that we've been making changes and additions to the law in recent days, but also to those who follow tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, so the debate just shows that actually from the budget, I would say, many have already said that. I think we're actually very real, so I'd say we're standing so tight on the ground. I'm glad that we've managed to find something by myself, so I think, a good balance between the necessary concerns for those who need it most, those who are already on the verge of saying survival that the laws we've passed with this budget don't make it any more difficult for them. But what might be more important is that the amendments to the laws that we have passed actually allowed us to finally encourage and develop entrepreneurship and economy as a whole because many before me have said without it there is no future in Croatia. I am sure that with a budget like this we can achieve this future, and of course it is quite normal and we allow of course that there are different opinions that there are those who believe that this budget is not good for a number of reasons. But I appeal at the end, and I only pray that I return to what I said at the beginning, I wish that in such discussions there were more political or less political at least we don't use manipulations and we don't read incorrect data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3610	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative of the Gordani Slobol. A respected representative of Biljana Borzana came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with members of the ministry. Here it is said that the new broom is a good target, and the new broom of this government should be not only good but also very precise and made up of very strong matches that will last a long time. In fact, we are waiting for difficult times in which not only do we feel a great burden of crisis but this new government will have to fight against the many injustices and unfair things that have been laid waste for years, which have served primarily, I would say for motivation in the polling post. Our country has become a deeply unjust country over the years, a country in which, unfortunately, not those who are honest and valuable have gone well, but those who are resourceful. It would be logical for every country to have the best living ones with the brain, but it turns out that from a well-developed brain that works well, some other parts of the body are more important, and these are very firm and pointed elbows and thick and insensitive cheeks. So it happened that those who have well developed these parts of the body can live very well even if they were on the social welfare list or were farmers who received support and did not sow anything. Now this budget together with the government's plans for the future actually has the task of allowing those who work hard to make and earn, those who need state aid to get it and not remain deprived just because the money was given to those who knew better. And that's exactly what's gonna be the hardest. They say making changes is the hardest thing. It has often proved to be regrettable that the loudest are those to whom something that never really belonged to them is the loudspeaker. Today, much is said about the budget why it is the way it is, why it is smaller and what it is to put emphasis on, and I will look back on some specificities that I am personally interested in as Slavonka and as a doctor. They can't look back, here in the assembly today there's been a lot of talk about dairy farming, and there's been a lot of manipulation of trying to get political points on Slavonia and Baranja and a small amount of funding provided in the agriculture budget as the basic branch of which they live in Slavonia and Baranja. Of course, the amount of money for agriculture is lower than in other parts of the budget, but it is important to highlight two things. The first food production will not be compromised. Secondly, order will be made and all commitments made from the previous year will be paid. So no one will be taken away from what belongs to him. But surely those who have worked hard will rejoice, have been encouraged honestly, that order will be made in the sense that those who took incentives without having earned it will no longer be able to get them. This will cheer not only those honest farmers but also all the honest citizens and citizens of this country who are eager to finally introduce order. The current strategy without fair rules where control was actually none led to a decrease in production. It is interesting that the first incentives were introduced in 2002 and were below billions of kuna and increased every year, and we see that production did not increase. That data itself speaks certainly for itself very much, that actually important changes and introduction again mentioning that order is necessary and as urgent as possible. The same thing is in the welfare system. The same amount of money seeks to achieve better social care. It may sound to someone like we're trying to say that 2+2=5, but it's not like it's simply investing in a single register that we're going to know exactly who's getting social help, which is not going to be possible for someone to get four basics of help, and that someone's being denied who needs it, or that's a small amount of money that needs to be shared into everyone else who needs it. It is also important to point out, I'm going to put out some more short examples where, despite a small amount of money, it was given more because it was seen to produce positive effects in the future. It is a far larger amount of money that will be allocated to around 60 million kunas for the employment of young people who have a first job. And what I've noticed in communication with citizens that are personally holding them back, those who are over 50 years old, and they're out of work are extremely undesirable to employers. Additional funds will be invested in the employment of such people. I'll look back on some of the health care budget. 700 million kunas less, but I think it's well-assembled and a good job has been done in the budget. First of all, I'd like to point out that colleague Sobol was talking about our consistency. While we were in the opposition, we kept saying that prevention is extremely little to worry about, that the people's "better to prevent than heal" actually turned out to be a policy that was only an empty story. We know that prevention acts not only positively on patients who will simply avoid disease but also on society in the sense that they will be saved both on expensive tests and on medicines and on sick days. I believe that one of the greatest values of this budget is that the prevention has been given far more. Here I will just highlight some data, for chronic non-infectious diseases the funds are almost doubled, for the prevention of infectious diseases from 3.3 to 3.7 million kunas is increasing the item. Prevention of addiction we know what the problem is, from 8.3 to 13 million. It is important that the quality of health care will not fall and that all patients will get what they need, but it will simply have to be spent rationally. For example. the item that is significantly reduced is the item on the pain. We have already seen positive shifts in previous years, we expect this positive trend to continue. Anger over what has been deposited for years, some may have expected a revolution from the coalition government when this budget was adopted, but in the revolution, however, often by waving sabers came to the finish line and then cut where and where it should not be. We need cutting but precise, smart, where necessary, keeping everything that's important, what's vital and what's positive. I believe that this budget has succeeded, I know that it is the job of every opposition to criticise, I know that in the depth of the soul and this opposition is aware that this budget is good and that otherwise it cannot be done because in the end HDZ knows very well what it has left for us with its coalition partners. This could also be understood from the discussions of colleagues on committees who even supported us that we might have been sharper in some things, but we felt that it would still be to enter into what would be medically said healthy tissue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3612	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3613	And I must, Mr. Vice President, correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Borzan who says that the HDZ in the depths of the soul also considers this to be a good budget. No, HDZ in the depth of the soul, but we've made it public, it doesn't think this is a good budget, and given the expenditures, and given the revenues, and we've elaborated that, we're going to elaborate. And as for what we left behind in the inheritance, I'm going to repeat again, these are very dangerous assessments that we left behind something that could be called skeletons or something like that. And I remind you that I sent Prime Minister Milanovic a letter almost two months ago asking to meet and resolve what is left and what is not left. To this day, Mr. Prime Minister has not responded.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3614	Thank you very much. We're moving on with a ten-minute debate. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3615	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin this debate with the fact that every budget, from the local one to the national one, is actually an instrument for the operationalization of a political concept, and in this regard I will say that the basic message that the current government, or the current government in the elections, has been a change. So, change. It would, of course, be pretentious right now to call the 2012 budget historic. We would be overjoyed not for our sake but for our citizens so we could say that at the end of the term. However, what we can say with absolute certainty at this moment is that the proposed budget is actually different from all the previous ones and that it is the beginning of what we have announced, so these changes. The most obvious proof of our determination that existing trends are changing is the attitude towards the budget deficit. We set ourselves the goal of reducing the budget deficit, and that was the starting point of conjecturing the whole of this budget. Why is that? Because the concept of the government so far, the concept of life on debt is spent. New borrowings, which financed too much consumption for which there was no cover in production, therefore in the newly created value, which actually bought staying in power, completely exhausted the few remaining healthy economies and brought us very close to that scenario, which unfortunately we see not far from us on the streets of Greece. Because look, if we're in debt at a rate of 6-8%, and at the same time we have three years back, or cumulatively three years back, the economic downturn, and not about 8%, then it's actually clear that we're not even making enough to be able to service interest on our financial debts to the current and future ones, let alone to return the principal of the debt. Therefore, it is extremely important to maintain a credit rating and the reduction of deficits among other things has a specific function. The decline in ratings means more creditor mistrust, the mistrust results in an even higher price of capital than previously, and this clearly results in a new billion debt to debt slavery when you actually stop being the boss of your own country. So, let me conclude this part of the deficit debate. This government plans to reduce the deficit by 5 billion kuna in 2012 by a third compared to last year's 15 billion, thus reducing the share of deficits in the gross domestic product to 2.8%. So, underneath those three percent down the Maastricht Treaty for the Eurozone. In 2013, the deficit reduction was projected to be 2 and a half percent and in 2014 to only 1.9% of gross domestic product and this is indeed a real reflection of our determination to keep the public debt firmly under control. What difference does this year's budget make from the previous years? It's lower expenses. For the first time, total budget expenditures have been reduced by 3.4 billion kuna, while not reducing neither birth benefits nor allowances for children, nor social benefits because we have just promised in our citizens' pre-election campaign. In doing so, it is important to point out something else. Total expenditure has been reduced despite the fact that in 2012 we will also have higher expenditure on interest and higher expenditure on unemployed and higher pension expenditures because we have decided to unfreeze pensions because the HDZ government has frozen them in the last term. The reduction in expenditure is based primarily on the reduction of staff expenditure in the state administration and on one systematic control and savings on material expenditure, and not on the savings of those symbolic on aromatised water, but on materially significant items that pass through public procurement. For example, inexplicably high items of intellectual computer and its services, a person simply has to ask himself what this state bureaucracy does when it needs so many external services. We know that exactly the state is the largest money laundering machine, because public procurement goes up to 40 billion kuna a year, and it's actually not a small number of companies that didn't exist until about ten years ago or worked on a very modest scale. So in recent years, they have been making hundreds of millions and billions. Thus, they became hugely rich, thanks to the fact that they were operating with the state and state-owned enterprises and public institutions. So we can say that the concept of this budget is based on savings, but not only on savings but on savings combined with investment investments in those economic activities that will bring economic growth. Because without investment, he'd rekindle in recession. And just these investments, concrete investments, and not hundreds of laid rock foundations, where there were only Podkin's villages. So, already real investments with precisely defined priorities are our arguments which have led us to assess the economic growth rate as one of the basic macroeconomic guidelines in 2012 precisely on those 0.8% despite the many disagreements with such an assessment. Moreover, in 2013 we increase that rate to 1 and a half percent in 2014 to 2 and a half percent because, with the expected effects of return on investment investments, we have therefore installed one of our optimism, one hope and faith that the growth of gross domestic product will no longer be so much based on consumption but precisely on strengthening the real sector. So, just to strengthen the Croatian economy. And finally, here's the former government constantly respects us for not supporting the Fiscal Responsibility Act. From what I have said in advance, and especially from our relationship to the budget deficit, or public debt, it is evident that the 2012 budget is. Including projections for 2013 and 2014 exactly the product of a major fiscal responsibility. He's wearing how the people say what you're doing, not what you're saying you are. And here, the HDZ government has shown its fiscal responsibility in a way that is in the 2011 budget. It cemented the expenditures at 122 billion, and the deficit on the huge 15 billion without political will actually has the capacity to change anything. On our warning that this situation is unsustainable and that something needs to be done by the former prime minister, she regularly asked what you would do. Show the specific item in the budget you need or which can be reduced. The budget is almost entirely fixed, etc. You see, in creating this budget, our 2012 budget, we didn't ask the opposition what to cut. We knew what to cut, and that's where we differ. We are aware of the gravity of the situation, and we have decided to do everything to change the negative trends, not for ourselves, but for the sake of our citizens, and that is where we differ. We're not looking, we're not actually expecting opposition support, because this is our decision. Are we going to succeed this is our political responsibility, and this 2012 budget is just one beginning of these changes. So one start of the battle for Croatia that will not be short nor easy. We all know, and most of all our citizens, this is going to be one long marathon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3616	Thank you very much. For the correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic applied. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3617	Your Honor, Mr. President. It's an incorrect quote. My colleague Jelash said that the main savings on the government's restrictions are something in that sense, in fact, directly so. That's incorrect. The main savings in this budget, as far as I'm concerned, are in agriculture and in health care. I think it's completely wrong with all respect and the historic moment of recession, everything. These savings will push Croatia into even greater trouble, even greater poverty? Why? Because agriculture is 50, 60 years of socialism, don't tell me it's coming back again, it's been systematically destroyed, the village's been destroyed, etc.,... It's all right, that's the time. [[You don't understand.]] And a lot of money was spent on revitalizing agriculture. If it was half... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3618	Agent, correct the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3619	Now, I've corrected it, it's not true that the main savings in reducing the costs of the state administration, but in destroying agriculture and health, but as far as health care is concerned, I'm going to say that in my presentation, if this continues, there will be a ministry... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3620	Thank you very much. Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3621	The Ministry of Disease, very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3622	I'm sorry, Mr. Representative, when you were correcting, then this is how you said it, and I think you should quote and quote what you're correcting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3623	I'm saying that my colleague said, well, I was a little... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3624	Thank you very much. You didn't get the word, don't be angry. There's a line here. Thank you very much. Let's move on. A respected representative, Ivo Jelusic, came forward. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3625	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, and these days the budget is almost said main, or hit topic in all the media and a lot is discussed and discussed. And it's hard after a lot of all these discussions and conversations and finding something new or saying something that maybe someone hasn't said by now, but I think that when it comes to some important things that aren't burning maybe even again, so I apologize in advance if I say something that's already in public or here in the assembly was already present. So far I have personally debated every time there was a agenda here in the Parliament budget or budget rebalancing, and in these discussions I have always warned and spoken, fortunately not alone, not here in the Assembly alone, but certainly not the only one in our public and we have said about this, that then the budgets are not good, that we have no reforms, that there is no expenditure cut, that there is too much deficit, that it is too much spent from what is not there, and that ultimately the deficit is not spent where it should be, that mainly that debt ends in consumption. And that's right. Unfortunately, that's how it was. This time, this budget is a twist, it is a new political direction and an attempt to make Croatia go differently. I hope and believe that this attempt will be successful and realized. Thus, the deficit is reduced, supported or supported by the economy for new economic development. I wish that had been the case, if the previous budgets had been accepted, if the previous governments had done so, even though they were on the other political sex compared to us here, it would have been better for Croatia. Unfortunately not. It was different there, I would even say that the economic programme that was adopted in terms of, in the direction of the economic programme for the recovery of the Croatian economy was mostly good, it was not so bad, with some remarks less could be swallowed, unfortunately the past government gave up on its realization and did not realize it until the end and there was its problem. I know that there have also been certain coalition arrangements, interests, agreements, keeping positions, trying not to blame the citizens either, so it was trying to go to a policy of non-refoulement and unfortunately not to lose the election, while Croatia has fallen even deeper. And what's the result in the end? The fact that the existing, or then government, had lost the elections, but unfortunately Croatia sank even deeper, and there is a problem. The problem, it is not a problem that HDZ lost the election with its coalition partners, the problem is that Croatia has not gone into reform in the last two, three years, has not gone into turns, and the deeper we sink. That's the problem, and that's why this budget is now a new turn and a new policy that is finally trying to change it. When we talk about the deficit, it's previous, in the previous three budgets, for the past three years it's mostly been moving about 14 billion or over 14 billion, this is the first time that it's reduced by nearly 5 billion and it's about 2.8% of the social gross product. It's not easy to cut the deficit by 5 billion, and really this has been both determined and brave, which has now been done. But there were words here in the assembly, so we're still wasting what we don't have. Of course, I don't think there are, at least not in our environment, maybe some country that has oil or I don't know what their budgets are, but no country in Europe has a budget that doesn't have deficits, it's just a question of what the deficit is, why it's being spent and under what conditions it's due. Unfortunately for us, it was all wrong, they were in debt for relatively expensive, and it mostly went into consumption, not into new economic development, and it was really too big. In doing so, we are, not only reducing the deficit, but also leaving a good part of the resources or liberating the economy, leaving it in the economy, giving the economy an opportunity for a new momentum, for a new development, and we need it. If there is no economic growth this and the following years, there is no such thing, there is no good nor social policy, no cultural policy, no science, no money, and money creates only the real sector and economy, and that is why this budget is on track, so he, and these tax laws we talked about last week, leave the economy an opportunity to walk away, to have some more money and that it can move into new economic development. So this is an opportunity, and this budget gives us a real chance to finally stop sinking like it's ever been, to stand on our feet and push ourselves from the bottom and go up. Ours, a crisis that has been in our presence for several years, although we remember that time when, two, three years ago, when nowhere or even here in the assembly, we should not have been told that we are in crisis, because we were considered to be minors, that we want bad to Croatia, and we have actually warned about the real situation, so the crisis that is present with us is partly imported, I agree that it was partly the result of the global recession, the recession in the economy in Europe, and in the whole world, but also in the good part and our subjective mistakes that were made in Croatia, which was made by the Croatian government or rather the result of what it did not do. Of course, given our potential, we cannot change the world's processes of world trends in the economy, economics, we do not have that ambition, nor can we. We are, however, statistically but in every other way in the world economy, really minor and we can't change that. We can change and adjust our behavior by respecting the condition in our environment. And that is why, by respecting such a situation, we are trying to do what we can, which is to cut our own expenditures in the budget to strengthen the economy and give the economy a chance to move into new development, to do less in debt, and of course, if we already have to be in debt, and the less we owe ourselves to be under acceptable conditions, and I hope that this will work. So we're doing what we used to say we need to do now finally and we're doing it and hopefully the results won't go away. And therefore, by reducing all these expenditures, by reducing the deficit, we have not questioned any social programme, we have not been asked about pensions, but we have raised them slightly. I don't want to go into certain items of the budget here but to talk about this main or general trend, so in what sense this budget is one new turn of a new policy. Now, after all this, who can't or won't support a budget like this? The one who doesn't understand what this is about, the one who doesn't want to see positive changes on purpose or the one who's in opposition, so it's his job to do what he says is good or all three together. I know and believe that most people in both this assembly and Croatia see these positive changes, see the turn, support these positive changes and this turn and that surely recovery will come and it must inevitably come. So, the global economic crisis cannot be affected, and I hope that its reflections will not significantly worsen the situation this and next year, but what we can do, we do, we start and finally create assumptions for us to get better. This government and this assembly majority that defeats it has the knowledge, courage and will to move without calculations to new reform processes to move towards cutting budgets to reduce deficits and new developments and in fact see here I would say one state's behaviour of this government. The difference between state or on the other side of political or populist behaviour is that those who act politically or populistly make such decisions and budgets by looking at whom they will be resented, and who not and how to provide themselves with most of it, while not getting most of it, and state behavior is what makes responsible decisions that are sometimes unpopular but which ultimately bring forward new developments and which I hope Croatia will take out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3626	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have a request to correct two incorrect allegations. The first is a respected representative of the Sun's Head. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct your incorrect allegations, you said that this budget will not support anyone who does not understand or who does not want good or who does not want positive changes. I can't agree with you that's completely incorrect. We can't accept this budget for a few reasons, I'll only give you two, and that's the first reason why 363 million kunas are reducing funds for education, health care, fire department and I can't agree to that. And yes, it's not going to be civil because we're not here to play statesmen, we're here to represent the people who chose us, and so are the people of every single person in my electoral unit. And also the units to assist local self-government units have been reduced by 60 million kuna. I don't think that should be funny to you. This is sad and don't appeal to us with this kind of populist thinking and tell us that we don't understand something because I believe everyone understands this. They'll get less for schools, for hospitals, for firefighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3628	Thank you very much. The next request for correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Đurdjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, your colleague Jelusic came from Zagreb and you've been in management for a very long time and you've been in Holding for a very long time, so when you talk about some kind of state behavior or political behavior, then it's of course incorrect when you think she was politically acting formerly. No, your behavior is absolute politics, a billion kuna is due to keep the bag bottomless. These are your budgets, it is your policy and it is your fantastic inconsistencies both in Zagreb and we will see it now and in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3630	Thank you very much. We continue with the work and debate of the deputies for 10 minutes. The next for the word is the esteemed representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, co-workers. Several impressions on the proposed budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for this year. So first of all, it seems to me that this proposed budget answers several questions well. First of all, how the government sees existing opportunities in the country but also in which it wants to direct Croatia in the immediate future. In my opinion, it is an expression of good analysis, rational planning as well as legitimate interventions in the revenues and expenditures of the state for the current still very crisis year. But it's clear, despite some government announcements and wishes that he's gone and can't be so-called. a clinical start or a clean start at least when it comes to the state budget. Why? So every first budget of a new government like a shadow is being followed by all successful and failed moves by previous authorities, all obligations, compromises, mistakes and delusions so that even this budget cannot be an exception in this respect. Thus, the primal vista can conclude that the proposed budget is a combination of life-belts and some ad hoc vitamin injections primarily to the Croatian real sector which has been drowning in the environment of hard monetaryism and pressure from single public consumption for years. The fact of adverse external circumstances and negative trends should not be ignored. It must be mentioned so much that today or these days, the euro area profile, i.e. Whether one of its members will have to declare bankruptcy and leave that society. In fact, euro area finance ministers as we debate in Zagreb met in Brussels to discuss whether to give a green light to Greece's 130 billion-euro financial assistance. However, any payment of the aid granted should it be announced it will be subject to strict supervision for the time being. The Croatian community will enter the very soon future, and it will have to be able to comply with any more rigorous norms. So it doesn't matter what basic financial documents we bring to the state. And one of the criticisms of the proposed budget is that the budget does not send a good message to the international financial sector and financial institutions that are not naive, so it will easily recognise that the government's announcements about growth are not possible with such measures. Of course, we can and should discuss it. But there are no doubt even fewer naive opportunities in which our family budgets today plan and realise our fellow citizens, and these are the opportunities lagging behind the economic upheaval of previous governments. However, already one international financial rating house has shown abstention but still optimism about the work of the new Croatian government on the basis of the proposed budget. A few words about what we're witnessing these days. Someone who observes the situation on the side could conclude that the situation in agriculture for Croatia is a more serious problem than the most exposed brakes of the negotiation process. It's about justice and shipbuilding. The impression may be cheating, but agriculture really requires sensitive cuts and structural changes that should have occurred in earlier years. However, politics and political interests have long denied sector reform and have made it difficult to adapt our agriculture under conditions that rule in the EU. In turn, the Union has already adopted financial frameworks for the first two years of our country's membership, according to which farmers can count on subsidies equal to those of their colleagues in the second, newer or newest members. The money will be available to Croatia, and it has not yet known or could not be spent. In any case, the reform of the sector in Croatia no longer endures delays. Agriculture with 18 billion invested kunas in incentives produces less than 5 years ago while the product is more expensive for a fifth. The market consumes import products while the agricultural deficit exceeds 600m euros. There is a big road ahead of farmers in Croatia to that ideal annual income of around 150 thousand euros with a hundred hours of weekly work, and this road begins with the families of our farmers with 2,000 to 4,000 euros in income. In addition, an EU farmer pays interest on a loan of no more than 4.5%, part of the subsidized state, mostly up to 2%, while the peasant in Croatia pays interest of 8% higher. We warned from opposition benches that Croatia and its peasants were not prepared enough for the EU. Chief Negotiator Tick Lang has said in his time that Croatia lacks a reliable system of management and supervision of budget spending. The famous, yet unbuilt administrative capacities combined with the reform are the most invisible precisely in the agriculture sector and these latest protests by Croatian peasants have confirmed the necessity of reform, but the incentives were more a means of social peace than the way food production and rural development are encouraged. It should not be surprised, therefore, that the attitudes of Croatian peasants towards the EU are very often negative. Among the negative aspects, one most frequently mentioned is that farmers consider EU regulations a threat to the survival of their properties. Farmers also fear they will become uncompetitive due to the open market and their small agricultural structures. However, Slovenian and Polish examples show that opinion on the EU and its agricultural policy can be improved as soon as the financial benefits become evident. Therefore, a negative attitude can also be due to a lack of information. Interested farmers should be advised on the proper application of procedures, the development of business plans and associated risk assessments, and farmers will need professional training on various national and EU investment schemes that can be made available to them. Many speakers today rightly mentioned that the proposed budget for the first time in the last 10 years has reduced the expenditures of the state budget. I believe that this reduction is in favour of a future increase in the standard of living of citizens, but this will not happen without a permanent and not just a declarative rerouting of the entire Croatian society to the society of knowledge, work, production and responsibility in the broadest sense of the word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is the World Day of Social Justice, a day celebrated since 2009 after the decision of the General Assembly of the United Nations. Member States have recognised that social development must be based on justice, solidarity, harmony and equality between both countries and within each of them, while social justice, equality and justice constitute the fundamental values of every social life. And today, defending the assets of a dying state of prosperity is no longer easy in more developed and responsible societies than in Croatia. It's hard because there are no paved paths, but I think it's possible and it's necessary to defend and continue to develop. For example, production of Iphone in China costs $8 to $65 in the United States. In the EU, the production would be even more expensive, but this is not the only reason why the production of a popular device will never return to the United States, as the late Steve Jobs answered US President Barack Obama's direct question. Moving almost all production from the west to the east has deeply changed societies affected by globalisation. Croatia is not and cannot be an island, but by creating some new values and rational consumption of public money it can affirm the philosophy of investment, production and effective protection of work on its own soil. In this process this year's budget is welcome step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3632	Thank you very much. Following a ten-minute debate, distinguished representative Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3633	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers and associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard a lot about the figures related to the budget, so I am not going to concentrate so much on numbers, but on what each country's budget and Croatia should answer, and that is the budget of each country should respond to all the ground-floor things in everyday life, but also to what are in fact our ultimate political aspirations and aspirations as people, as people and as communities, and, of course, the adoption of the budget in some way and the solemn act. So today I will talk about what I consider to be the most important characteristics of the proposed budget, which is that it represents a significant shift in fiscal policy that should have been done long before, that after a full 10 years of real and nominal reduction and that we have finally decided to seriously deal with the deficit. I would also remind you of the context in which the budget is brought, and the context is that we have spent more all these years than we have earned, that we have given more than we have provided over the year. We used national goods above what we created over the year and in some ways we slowly bit and ate our own substance. We know who's responsible for this, but I won't talk about it. But I will talk about the government's responsibility, the responsibility of the government, which has offered a completely new concept of the budget, which is that the reform, namely by offering a package of fiscal laws, changes the concept that the tax press is moving from work to capital and that is a significant message from this government. On the one hand, we relieve work because they want to protect exactly the most socially endangered layers and capital, but not on capital whose taxes, new taxes will prevent new investments, but they want to send a message that those investors, those people who have enough capital available, will also have a tax exemption. What the debate on the Committee on Finance could conclude was that most members, so I would say all the members of the Finance Committee agreed that the objectives of this budget were set correctly. In this way, we can say that most of the professional public can agree that this budget is well set and that the objectives and instruments to achieve these objectives are well set. What you could hear was a skeptic's idea of whether it could be realized. I would appeal here to all of us who are responsible for the situation in this country and whether the messages from this House will be confusing or clear, to try to give common support to this government, to this budget in order to get into our economy which is the foundation and basis of getting out of the economic crisis, in order to regain optimism. Optimism in a way to boost new investments, and we will only be able to do so in a way that if we send a clear message and give support to the government, so to this government that presented its first budget in this mandate. We need to show that, I believe, through this budget, the credibility of this government, the credibility of the policy, and what can be supported in particular, is the launch of new investments, and this is the state investment that I believe when, at the moment it is launched, it will foster a series of private investments and it will directly affect economic growth. For all these reasons that I have stated, therefore a significant shift in fiscal policy, a significant reduction in income and expenditure in the state budget over the last 10 years and a significant reduction in deficits is why I propose that we support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3634	Thank you. The presentation of the draft budget will now be presented by the distinguished representative Lidija Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3635	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. On this budget, I think it is important to point out and repeat, so here I will repeat that this is the first time that a government significantly reduces the government's deficit through a reduction in its own expenditures, and this is also the first step towards a policy of rational spending, not a life on debt, as has been the case so far. The budget is primarily developmental and to the extent permitted by the inherited contractual obligations, which must simply be respected. Many criticisms are primarily from the media, but also from various other entities that should have been cut off more, that more funding for salaries by state and public officials had to be reduced. However, the government responsible, and what this government really is, must take care of and respect for collective agreements. Because otherwise, there would be considerably higher costs for the state budget. It was the easiest time to just spend economic growth, and we spent a lot more money than we had, giving certain groups various rights, and these current times of crisis are very difficult to reduce. Last week we had a debate here in the Parliament on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, and the report clearly shows a large number of lawsuits against the Republic of Croatia that mainly refer to work disputes resulting from non-compliance with the rights of collective agreements. Such disputes are usually lost by the Republic of Croatia. A large number of judicial judgments against the Republic of Croatia are also visible, which have led to an executive procedure which, of course, generates additional costs. Well, that kind of irresponsible behavior should finally stop. It is therefore important to keep in mind that it takes a certain time for the government to come to the most favourable solution through negotiations with trade unions and for the benefit of all. Since I come from the university system, I will look back at the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. It has been promised that there will be no skeletons from the closet, and only in this ministry had to provide additional 13 million and 140000 kuna for 2012 and for the execution of the judgments of power. Nevertheless, with a total reduction in the ministry's budget of 400 million kuna, it has succeeded in ensuring the quality of the education system and increased investment in promoting development. Savings achieved on a mass of salaries, but not in a way to reduce basic salaries, but to eliminate irrational costs such as unwarranted overtime, work contracts, different pay additions, suspicious travel costs, etc. tourist trips to congresses and the like. As a major employer, the ministry has made significant savings by reducing health contributions from 15% to 30%. Despite the savings, it aims to meet European standards. The objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy are to increase investment and education reforms, reduce early school leaving rates below 10%, increase highly educated to 40%, education adults above 15%, mobility for lifelong learning to 20% for higher education and 6% for vocational education. So if we compare ourselves to those figures, we can only be satisfied with the early school leaving rate, which is 3.6% in Croatia. But only 18% of the highly educated population and the miserable 2% of mobile students show how far behind we are. In doing so, the worldwide successes of individuals, both students and students, and scientists and athletes are indicators of possible success. One of the main objectives of the ministry is to reduce the youth unemployment rate, as Croatia currently ranks 35% of unemployed young people third in Europe. It must be possible for our schools and universities to produce professionals in the labour market, not employment institutions. This year's budget is sensitive to current problems and needs, thus increasing funds to prevent dependence from 422 thousand kuna per million kuna, and for preventing violence in schools that have become simply alarming in recent years, funds have increased from 227 thousand per million kuna. The training of teachers and teachers and working with gifted children will also be more encouraged. Investment in the scientific research activity, which is the driver of long-term economic and social development, has increased by 60 million kuna. Greater investment will strengthen the integration of scientific potential at universities and public institutions with the economy in the environment, develop entrepreneurship based on innovation and high technologies, and promote mobility and international cooperation of scientists. The budget provides additional funding from the organisation of scientific meetings and for the publication of domestic and foreign scientific journals. Special emphasis should also be given to increasing funding for all European Union programmes for which the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is responsible. As part of the Community Programme for the Republic of Croatia, full participation in the European Union's largest framework programme has been ensured through the Seventh Framework Programme. So-called FP7 is a fundamental instrument of the European Union to promote research and technological development and to increase global competitiveness, and our scientists have already proven themselves there and is expected to successfully withdraw funds in the future. Since the start of the use of funds from the framework programme to date, Croatia has paid 25.7m euros of national contribution, which is in the same period, while in the same period it has withdrawn 35.7m euros. In 2014, FP7 will succeed a new, even larger programme called Horizon 2020, which is currently under discussion in the institutions of the European Union and for which the ministry is already very actively preparing. It is a great opportunity for our country both in the opportunities for more generous funding of projects and for the affirmation of our scientists and their research work in the world, and for the opportunity to connect and exchange experiences. The operational programme for regional competitiveness provides greater means for competitions of IPA component 3C, which is also prepared for future use of structural funds, as well as for improving human capital and employment that are secured through the IPA component four. In a situation where, according to the Croatian Employment Institute records, nearly 335 thousand unemployed persons have been registered since last month, special care should be taken to strengthen employability and as possible through adult retraining and education programmes. The increase in funding is also evident for the BICRO Business Innovation Centre, which should ensure better cooperation between science and economy by encouraging technological research, and in order to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. This is only part of the measure from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports domain, which should encourage society to move forward. Investment in science and education is particularly highlighted in the strategic documents of the European Union, as well as in this Government's programme. Citizens should be aware, and according to the government of Zoran Milanovic, they certainly are, how impossible it is to make a miracle out of a devastationed state register in such a short time. Despite significant savings, a turn towards development policy has been made, but there is no magic wand. In order to facilitate the economy through relief, it must also reach out to the painful measure of raising VAT in order to raise funds. And finally, I would like to say that this budget is a struggle to maintain economic stability and the battle for future economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3636	Dear representative Josip Boris has applied to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3637	Dear Vice President, dear colleague of the council. I just want to correct the incorrect allegations in the part where my colleague said that this budget is actually a policy of rational behavior and that there is no more life on the debt. Since we all have the same materials, I hope we have, in our projections it says that the planned debt in the next three years is 26 billion kuna, for which the state has to be in debt, and we all the time, I've been listening to a few of your colleagues who are out, saying that this debt is gone, so since there's a finance minister here, let him tell us whether we're still going to be in debt as a state or not, since the needs exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3638	The next debate was signed up by distinguished representative Mladen Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3639	Honorable ministers with their colleagues. By listening to this debate, I have made a decision to change my discussion, and I am changing it on the basis that the budget that we have received is certainly fairer and more developmental budget, a budget that will be true. A lot of days you hear in this assembly holding, about it a few days we get one holding... press, money thrown into the wind, I think the wind blew it, Croatia invested 4 and a half billion... [[You don't understand.]] and slow ferry. [[You don't understand.]] I don't think we're gonna be needing the miners anymore because I think we're on our own, and the slow ferry is unfortunately driving all the time. There's a lot of money in there, but we don't have results. When we know that today on an ordinary railway that a ferry cannot board a bus or a truck, we wonder who your ferry is, to whom it serves. If... The stronger the maestral as we say down in the south, the clogged ships remain tied up in Split and we remain cut off from the land. [[You don't understand.]] So the connection is questionable, and this government has well assessed that it will not do such things as it has done so far. When we see health care as we're located, when you drive two-and-a-half hours with an emergency service to the hospital, and we remember the former minister who suggested such a famous health care that it would cost us and cost us, I think Minister Rajko will have a lot of trouble with the finance minister to settle it to respect good life and safety... Isolated. [[You don't understand.]] When we remember the complete conduct of politics here today we started to get on the benches of the amendment, when we see which amendments, who wears them, who writes them, I wonder where you've been for 8 years, you remember well here I have a hill with me I think 45 pieces of projects that were thrown into the drawer of ministries because they came from the cities of the municipalities of the gentlemen you weren't in power. The agreement is for the life of water, action and existence of life, we have them signed up to be perfect in 2011 you have not invested half the funds in them, they are neither finished. We're talking about agriculture, I think it's a very complex branch, and I was saying that on the Committee on Agriculture. Incentives in agriculture, that there should be incentives in agriculture, we just need to have clean and concrete and fair rules on how we can compete and who can compete for these incentives. We can't all, each of us, if we have anything to do with agriculture and there's some abandoned vineyards, or we've made a lawsuit, or we've put on a list of other people's vineyards and we're raising up for it. That's sad. Unfortunately, there are plenty of them. And so I would ask this Parliament, and I have asked the committee to get at least the last four years' registration of companies that have received these incentives in the counties so that we can act and see who receives these incentives because it is certain that farmers like today and the milkers who strike and this would be more satisfied to make the funds a lot more. When we see concessions, here we listen today, we don't have a register of those concessions at all how we get those concessions, I just know how you shared them. You've shared them in ways that there's a construction zone can be done an interesting thing for agriculture, today it's lifted, and tomorrow you're the area that was built and we're ending to stay tomorrow to someone you gave to is generally not from that area, given for the development of long-term shocks that can be given incentives, and what kind of incentives we don't know. We see over the summer our safety against the fires on the islands I think the government will do it correctly and will see there protection to use local firefighters because the protections that firemen come to the islands are still people who are not professional, and they need to be paid both the journals and the accommodation that these are really great costs. And that's what the government in that segment will appreciate. But most of all today I'm getting from my environment as my colleagues from HDZ in all segments of cities and municipalities are asking for projects to be given projects that are now in circulation and now we're getting them on benches as amendments. And I think this budget that's proposed will be development and fair... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3640	Thank you, colleague Marelic. We've reported two corrections to an incorrect quote. You called too late. You have to pick up the phone while the speaker speaks. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3641	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Representative, let me correct the wrong order in the part where the honourable representative said the incentives were shared for other people's vineyards and other people's fields. Incentives were divided into what someone was processing and what he proved to be either property or lease or concession. As far as transparency is concerned, all the incentives have been published on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Payments Agency, and by introducing and moving towards the EU we have implemented the system of IACS and ARCOD where all recorded and recorded individual land particles have been recorded. So it couldn't be used for other people's vineyards of support.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3642	The second correction of the incorrect quote is the esteemed colleague Branko Bancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Marelic, I will correct the incorrect assumption that the former government has done nothing when it comes to the transport of Croatian islands, so I would only mention that in the term of past HDZ governments, the amount of funds to subsidise the island's transport connection and in the section relating to the high-speed lines and in the section relating to ferry lines is doubled. In 2003, 205 million kunas were granted for the transport, and now nearly 400 million kunas for the transport connection of Croatian islands. At the same time, a fleet of national boaters of Jadrolinia was restored and 8 new ferrys were purchased and nearly 5 new ships were purchased. Also, some 250 million kunas of state funds were invested in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of ports on islands that serve to transport the Croatian islands. Thus, never in history has it been made for the transport of Croatian islands in such a short time as it was done in previous mandates.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3644	Thank you very much. Next in line for a ten-minute debate is the distinguished representative Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Already in the overture of this debate, which will obviously be long, almost everything is said about this budget, but sometimes it is well repeated. So the budget is a key document that shows to the greatest extent that this government is going to go in this country's leadership. And that I agree with my colleague Vinkovic that this budget could be different. I'd be happy if he was different, I'd be happy if this budget didn't have a deficit at all if he was zero kuna. I'd be the happiest if this budget didn't go down but increased, I'd be the happiest if this budget had enough money for all these amendments including the Vinjane Lower Road. I would be very happy if there was enough money to invest in higher education to get our students to finish top-level studies in the Republic of Croatia for free. I would be extremely happy if there was enough money in the budget to meet the standard of primary education and that all primary schools had IT classrooms, sports halls, everything that belongs to them. However, all the time I live in Croatia firmly with my feet on the ground, and unfortunately I know that such a thing is impossible at the moment and that such a thing is unfortunately utopia. Therefore, all of these criticisms that come from those who have led the policy that has even led us to the condition that these legitimate desires for development are utopia, not some criticism or positive proposals, but a simple hallucination. Today in Croatia, we do not have to be some very good economists, we are not ignorant enough to be blind enough to see that there are two directions ahead for Croatia. One direction is in that pattern if we're short of money for the peacekeepers we're going to be in charge. If we're short of money to subsidize in agriculture, let's get in charge. If we're short on money for the hunger of coalition partners, we're going to be in charge. If we lack money in the election year for some capital investments let's take more of those state-owned companies that that money has. And of course, there's the second time this government has gone, and that's the cost reduction, the rationale of spending public money, the opening up of space to the economy, the creation of an opportunity for this economy to breathe, to finally start opening up new jobs, to finally start creating a new value that can only get us out of this fungi. I would also refer to a part of the budget that speaks about that part of the EU fund, namely 600 million kuna, which would be 2012. They should be coming from EU funds. It is also up to the government to create a system that will help local self-government units whose budgets have already been exhausted to make money easier to pre-finance these projects and to draw as much money from EU funds as possible into their local budgets to finance local projects. Of course, local self-government units are also tasked with networking, creating a synergy of capacities that are still very poor and are very low, to make them as firm as possible, stronger and more money from the EU funds. And in the end, I have no hope, no illusions, most of the votes I am convinced that by accepting this budget, we will be able to go out on that path as colleague Jelash says, which will not be short, nor light, but as the old Chinese proverb says, "and the longest time begins with the first step". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3646	I'd like to thank my colleague Matteljan. It is now time for the debate of the distinguished representative Ana Damianac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3647	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the deputy and associate ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm not going to talk about the numbers because we couldn't read the draft budget in detail, and my colleagues have already talked a lot about them. I'd just like to say a few things. Composing the budget is very difficult and demanding when there is, and how difficult it is to agree when it is not as it is today. This is the first budget in 10 years that goes towards a real deficit reduction and directs funds to strengthen the economy and the economy in small steps, but we are still moving forward. The change in tax relief protects our most vulnerable citizens. On the one hand, changing tax values, the scale means less resources in local communities, units of local self-government, but the government has taken care of this budget and that the return of funds and contributions to local self-government units is increased by 1.5% so that units of local self-government should not have a reduction in resources. I am moving towards decentralisation of funds and I believe that the next budget will show it to an even greater extent. This budget does not deprive anyone in particular, but it goes towards that one who has more needs to be given more, especially those who have taken, kidnapped and riched in someone else's account to return what is not theirs. This budget reduces expenditures and convincingly contributes to the reduction of deficits, is a 1/3 lower deficit. He's here, we can't erase him with one stroke of feathers and he can't disappear overnight, but he's smaller, predicted smaller by 1/3. I believe as our citizens who, with great care and interest, follow the draft budget and are aware of the situation we are in, give support to this budget. That's what I'm saying from the conversation I got with the citizens of my election base. Citizens support the government who has taken responsibility and is seriously behind this budget and has seriously set out to introduce order among the non-payers as well as to stop the draining of our funds outside our country. In particular, I mean the profit that comes from our banks, which is paid by our citizens, especially those who had to survive this rule last year, are simply in charge of everyday life needs. The government finally says with this budget we will cover ourselves as long as our blanket is and we will not spend what our grandchildren should pay for, and unfortunately our great-grandsons too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3648	Thank you. On this exhibit, we have a report of 3 corrections of an incorrect quote. First respected representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3649	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me correct the wrong quote where Mrs. Prosecution says the budget doesn't cancel anyone out in particular. Those who have more are taken more. This budget cuts farmers the most and they are not in the category that they have more and that they can be taken more. Agricultural support is the highest in percentage and absolute amount, and farmers are not in the category of those who have very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3650	The next amendment, distinguished representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3651	Mr. Vice President, my colleague says the same thing: "this budget does not deprive anyone in particular" I will only give one example, that in the division of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the transfer of funds to local administration units last year was 47 million kuna for those who issue construction permits. This year it's $12 million. And now I'm asking who's going to pay these people, where the county and the cities are going to pay those amounts. Therefore, what a colleague said this morning that he was impressed by these government moves and the budget, I would rather agree with the prime minister that he said this morning that the new could be cloudy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3652	And the final correction of the incorrect allegations, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, you said that this government shows how to move forward with small steps and so on. You have just shown by example how you will support this government when you did not want to sign one of the biggest projects in Croatia that is done in the tourist sector when...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3654	Dude, this isn't a correction to an incorrect quote. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... A fellow drinker, please. We have article 209. Rules of Procedure...... Vice President of the House, please don't throw you off the bench, why, so there's no reason. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3655	Yes, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that... In a way that will not support it in the future, therefore the lady did not want to support one of the biggest projects in the tourism sector which is otherwise trying to break through in Croatia, but obviously we do not know what stage, in which state, is clearly going to be annulled as most of what we started. [[/The noise in the hall, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3656	That she refused or refused to support her correctly, not incorrectly. She didn't say anything about it. Comrade Drinker, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure you, yes, everyone. It'll be a lot easier for us to work. Next up is distinguished colleague Zeljko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3657	Mr. Vice President, members of the Ministry of Finance, fellow MPs and MPs. Let me, in my opening part, refer to something that was said that just in the election campaign I had the pleasure and honour of being with Mr. Minister who, in his statement in the campaign, was just talking about everything that is in front of us today in this budget so that in some way all of our voters were familiar with what we have in front of us today, which ultimately resulted in 9 parliamentary mandates in VII. the electoral unit. Furthermore, in my statement, I would refer to the proposed revenue of 109 and the expenditures of 118.8 billion kuna would decrease the budget deficit in 2012 by more than 5 billion kuna, amounting to 9.9 billion or 2.8% of gross social product. If added to that by 0.2% of the out-of- budget deficits and local units, the planned general government deficit is about 3.3% of the gross social product. The total needs for funding of state and extra-financial funds in this year will amount to around 23 billion kuna, of which 2 billion kuna will rise to the privatisation of Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal bank, while staying in charge on the domestic and foreign market. The government forecast for GDP growth in 2012 is 0.8% and is based on strong real growth in gross fixed capital investment. In 2013, a growth of 1.5% of gross social product and 2.5% in 2014, while inflation is expected in 2012 of 2.4% and its retention at around 2.5% in the medium term. This budget is based on three principles, creating a precondition for the start-up of the economy through the investment cycle and improving the conditions of business, then sustainability of public finances in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act and the focus on the protection of socially most vulnerable groups. The tax code package we discussed and adopted last week is the predecessor to this year's budget. As of March 1st, VAT will be paid at 25% instead of the 23 so far, which will bring the country 2.5 billion kuna in this year. The reduced VAT rate of 10% will be charged on oil, fat and children's food and water supply services, and from 1 January of the following year the same rate will be introduced in tourism or catering facilities where lower VAT will be paid on non-alcoholic drinks, food, wine and beer. As of next year, the VAT register will include those who earn more than 230 thousand kuna, not 85 thousand as of now. Companies also lose relief on the purchase of cars, aircraft, vessels, representation. As a result of the reductions in the contribution, the food industry should not raise prices due to an increase in VAT. The Income Tax Act is also amended and the non-taxable is raised from 1800 to 2200 kuna, and for pensioners from 3200 to 3400 kuna, with future taxes from abroad being taxed. Tax classes are also changed, but income tax rates remain the same. From 1. March is also introduced a dividend tax for citizens at 12%, with small shareholders not paying a dividend tax of up to 12,000 kuna. The government is introducing a relief for all those who are reinvesting so they won't have to pay a 20% tax on it. However, the retention of profits in society will have to be carried out through an increase in core capital. The company's relief will not be able to benefit until next year, i.e. for the profits it has reinvested this year since 1 March of this year and a 12% share in profits. The government estimates profit tax revenue in 2012 at around 6 billion kuna and the same amount of profit tax is ready to give up or give up to companies to turn it into investments. The government also flows into the economy about 200 million kunas a month by reducing health contributions from 15% to 13%, which would annually amount to around 2.4 billion kuna. All of these tax measures have a more even burden on citizens and help the Croatian economy have a more competitive labour price. With this kind of relief for the economy, additional relief is also planned for the same economy in terms of reducing the untaxable rent of water and forest contributions. With the new budget, the government wants to maintain Croatia's credit rating and send positive messages to investors to come and invest in the Croatian economy. All reforms to be implemented must be based on maintaining social security, on justice, and on redistributing the social burden to those who have more than these measures do. Also announced from the government is an insolvency account, as the amount of unpaid bills in Croatia has already exceeded 40 billion kuna. The state will have to settle its obligations within 30 days because it is a European Union guideline, and the government wants to help the economy as well. Entrepreneurs and also according to the state would have a period of 45 days unless they agreed on a longer period than 60 days. After 60 days, there must be no more unpaid obligations. Entrepreneurs will extend the VAT payment period from 30 to 45 days to 60 days but after that there should be no default. At the end of my presentation, I would also look further at further fiscal decentralisation through income tax, income tax, real estate tax and real estate tax, value added tax and start a more balanced development in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I'm thinking about a link to the so-called. Blue and green Croatia. Sea-back areas have a very high chance of development only to be recognised and invested in infrastructure, economic, tourist facilities and accommodation facilities, which would extend the tourist season itself, and also employ the local population. I am convinced that there will be a situation where along the roadways that are open and built by following the contents in order to employ the domicile population so that the roads do not remain one-way and that people do not go with their belly after bread from these parts. I also believe that exactly where the resources are located that we need to organize production, which is primarily what I mean by our natural wealth, which is forests, so-called forests. The wood industry that has been devastated in these areas in the hill-mounted mountains. I think that this processing should go back to those areas where the logs grow and not as half-products or as logs go beyond our borders or elsewhere. I also think that it should be taken into account when developing these areas and so on. ecological component. So, no development at all costs. Nature and the environment should be preserved and no further devasting and pollution of space should be allowed. Let me remind you that in these parts of our country there are also huge supplies of water for which today is a great need in the world, and it will be growing because the battle for drinking water is approaching. In the end, I'm sure I'll support this draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3658	Thank you, colleague Mirkovic. But our colleague Martina Dalic tells us that you said something completely incorrect. Let's hear what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3659	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, there are at least two incorrect allegations you've identified. First, it is incorrect that foreign entrepreneurs will pay dividend taxes at 12% because they will not. Until the entry into the European Union, this will do so at the rates set out in the Treaty on the avoidance of Double Taxation. That means Austria zero, which means all the banks that are registered in Austria are the biggest ones. Hungary 5%, Germany 5%. Therefore, those entrepreneurs who are also the most profitable will not pay a 12% tax but will be only taxes for domestic entrepreneurs, and all in the context of a major oath in support of the economy and entrepreneurship. Secondly, it is incorrect to pass the Law on payment deadlines, because it has already been adopted and implemented and no one is defending it, although all economic operators are expected to act logically on it today, as I am reminded by Mrs Kosor, the government has been led by the HDZ, and this law has been proposed by the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3660	The next correction to the incorrect quote, distinguished counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of a distinguished colleague who said that in the election campaign he was hanging out with the finance minister and that everything the minister said in the campaign was coming true through the making of this budget, so the esteemed colleague isn't right. In fact, the finance minister Mr. Slavko Linic in the election campaign did not mention that the VAT will be raised from 23% to 25%, which was confirmed by your Prime Minister, Mr. Milanovic, in his opening speech this morning. Therefore, you probably hung out with Mr. Milanovic, but you didn't listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3662	We also have two reported replicas. The first replica is the Đuro Popiac, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, counterpart Dalic has already said something that will happen with the profits of foreign owners of our companies, and the enthusiasm that exists today among entrepreneurs, domestic entrepreneurs and which you will further tax that I am not talking about increasing VAT, but only the profit tax. So today you're on the scene mass-lifting accumulated profits throughout this year. Whoever has the money in the account is raising profits. Whoever doesn't have it is trying to raise a loan. This is the consequence of your new taxes and that is the enthusiasm of our entrepreneurs with these tax reforms. So, what will happen is a further downturn in the economy and further demotivation of investors and entrepreneurs for any entrepreneurial activity in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3664	And another replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3665	Dear Vice President, I'd just like to rephrase the honourable representative because I know him personally as a worthy mayor in the mountain-mounted area. One of the few here in the Parliament, and I know there's a party discipline, too. However, this draft budget clearly shows that mountainous and mountainous areas in this budget have zero kunas. It means that the law goes towards its end. I think if all the mayors knew about this situation, I believe they would react. This is the first time since 2000 that the state budget leaves zero kunas for hill-mounted areas. So much for those nine terms. If you had announced then and said that you would have invested zero kunas in Gorski Kotar, probably the results of these elections would have been quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3666	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3667	So here I would say that these projects that are in this budget are also directly touching the Gorski Kotar itself. It is the same revitalisation of the existing railway line, reconstruction of the rolling stock, etc., the completion of certain projects which are still in the non-building phase of the business zone of each etc. I therefore say by introducing decentralisation and further designing certain content, I believe that it will be possible to live honestly in the Gorski Kotar and mountainous areas of its work and that citizens will remain in those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3668	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Marija Vukbratović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3669	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. It is an irrefutable fact that for a number of years, we have spent more than what is being done and that we have actually lived on debt for years, or on credit if you want to. Although this has already been mentioned many times today, it may not be worth mentioning for another time, since it is obviously not quite clear to some of us, and it does not need to be a great economic or financial expert to see that such a situation is not sustainable in the long run and that it actually leads to destruction. If we truly, not just declareably want to get out of this situation, it's about time we start saving. That's where this budget was made. Its goal was to save wherever possible, while not jeopardising jobs and the normal functioning of the state and the economy. In my own court, that's his greatest value. However, as many people believe in the need for saving and the necessity of saving, we always secretly hope that this savings will not apply to our portfolio, or that they will not be spared on projects that are related to our region. In that context, I will look back at two areas of this budget that I find extremely interesting, which are agriculture and my local community. Since the biggest or almost biggest savings in the media are very often mentioned as the biggest loser with the finding that agriculture is a big loser could possibly agree, only agriculture will not become a big loser by voting this budget, but it has been a loser for the last 10 years and because of the poor agrarian policy it has led during that period. In a situation where agricultural science and technology are at such an envious height with all their natural advantages, the resources we have and with all the support we have so far that the hands on the heart were not alone, farmers are put into a situation that they cannot live from their work. The consequence is that farms fail, people are dissatisfied, very often even desperate, villages die, and we import more and more food. It can be concluded from the draft budget that this year will be the year when analyses will be made, real strategies and long-term development plans will be carried out, an inventory of all our resources, possibilities, needs and wishes and create legal preconditions that can finally go into the proper development of domestic agrarian. Items in the budget relating to the final position of the Agency for Agricultural Land, the funds intended for the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, as well as those intended for research in agriculture and support in the food and processing industry, are in fact the hope that, once in Croatia, they will be able to live on agriculture as in the developed countries of Europe. And secondly, I would like to look back at the items in the budget that directly refer to the Crosses and its wider surroundings, so the end from which I come. The budget provides for funding for the Križevci two of the most important projects, which are the construction of the second railway track and reconstruction of the railway line Dugo Selo-Križevci, and the construction of the fast road Vrbovec-Križevci, and further. Križevci is a town close to Zagreb, quiet, unpolluted, urban, but there are no valid reasons for this city not only for years but for stagnating, but for year after year. Without the developed industry, it actually provides no or very small employment conditions. The result is that young people go after us with bread, most often in Zagreb, but they no longer return from Zagreb. By realising these two important projects, we believe that not only will young people not leave the Križevci, but many Zagrebers who love peaceful life, without stress, unpolluted and pure nature will actually move to the Križevci and move. Another event that can't be read directly from this budget is that the ministry's decision will finally lead to the move of the Croatian agricultural agency to the Križevci, although the decision was taken in 2006 to implement it has not yet been made. I can't say that we in the Križevci are quite satisfied with this budget and we don't have the desire and need yet, but we are absolutely aware of the situation in which the state is currently in place. That is why I, as a representative of these citizens, will support this budget convinced of its realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3670	Thank you, dear colleague Vukbratovic. And we have reported two corrections to this exhibit of yours to an incorrect quote and one replica. First the corrections. Dear Representative Petar Cobanković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3671	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam MPs, Your Honor, Your Honor, Allow me to correct the two allegations that the esteemed representative has made. I am correcting the assumption that agriculture has been the biggest loser in the last 10 years, in a way that if support in 2003, the total support from the state budget was a circus of a billion and 600, in 2011, they came to 3 billion and 600, and then the fact itself does not exactly stand with the finding that agriculture has been the biggest loser in the last 10 years. And secondly, the second incorrect quote you said that we are importing more and more food, I have to correct you in the last two years and in 2011, we have less imports than in 2010, and in 2010, we had fewer imports than in 2009, so it is not true that more and more imports are being imported, but vice versa to reduce imports and increase exports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3672	The second correction to the incorrect quote, distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So it is incorrect to quote a colleague that this rationalization of the 817 million kuna budget will achieve the effects that will be for agriculture as in all European countries, and the standard as in all European countries. Namely, if you had read the budget and budget norms well, then you would have seen that what is needed in agriculture to become competitive, which is irrigation, melioration, draining and editing canals, in your county is 77% less in this budget than it was before. And with me in the county, it's 53% less. Where the pilot is a project of irrigation a million hectares of land there is no more funds where farmers would compete. So I don't know what you're actually talking about and why you're selling this Assembly the fog with these inaccuracies you're talking about, and look at the budgetary resources of the Croatian waters that they've done to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3674	Time's up. Replica's esteemed representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Vukbratovic, you've really talked to your warm human story about your Križevci and our Križevci. But you said, unfortunately, the Crosses are a famous agricultural end, a lot of inaccuracies about agriculture, so you say she's the biggest loser. Well, buddy, I don't think you have any idea about agriculture at all, no matter where you come from. Because if you had any idea then you'd know about the financial envelopes that were negotiated, then you'd know that we now have 10,000 acres of vineyard increase, 12 thousand acres of orchards, that we have a new 12,000 acres of planted vegetables, that we have 5,000 acres of new olive groves, that we have today 50 thousand tons of new space for inlo-fridges. So that's more like 13,000 tons. You would know my dear colleague that in 2003 the total value of agricultural production was 20.3 million kuna and that it was 2010. 28.4 million kuna. You would know, dear colleagues, if there were no incentives for agriculture, that Croatian agriculture would not be in this new Croatia. You'd know that. It's clear to me that there are people among you who are not at all interested in agriculture and who you personally think are completely irrelevant, it's evident from your budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3676	We also have a reply to the replica. colleague Marija Vukbratović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3677	Well, here's the question. I don't have a clue what you guys are in the profession or I'm not very interested in myself. But I'm a doctor of agricultural science, which isn't very important at this point. However, I lived in the country until recently, working at the High Agricultural School. So, I'm in daily contact with young people and their parents and I know what those young people think and what their parents think about agriculture. I think our farmers would be extremely happy if they could live on their work and on what hard work on that country's product, and not that they had to depend on the incentives and support and resources that the state grants them. I'd have more to say, but I think this is enough to begin with.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3678	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's to this enthusiastic discussion of the 2012 budget. A year I'll try to bring us down to reality. Honestly speaking and listening to some colleagues and remembering their discussions on the 2011 budget, I would really ask you a question. And what's changed? What are these structural changes, and only structural changes can condition a certain reduction in the budget, occurred in this budget compared to the 2011 budget? Nothing. This is just a list of wishes to be reduced. I'll talk a little bit more about them later. But these expenditures are related to certain contracts, to certain obligations, and you cannot reduce them until you regulate it with those who have received that right. So, we welcome your desire to cut the expenditures of the state budget. And no one's going to say that, but one real question is being asked. Can you do what you suggested? You can't. In this overall enthusiasm over the new budget, no one is talking about political wishes today about the record price of gasoline and oil derivatives and make sure that all these investment stories, about the growth of the economy, if something is not done, will not have exactly this kind of results because oil has a significant impact on that. So remember what happened at the end of 2008 when it started and certain inflation movements and everything. So let's all be a little bit more serious. Let's not talk so euphoric about something, and I don't think there's any euphoria at all. Look, you have a signed contract at the Ministry of Education that 1.8. their base grows 2.3%. And you can't reduce it without talking to the unions about 80 or 90 thousand enlighteners. You'll have to provide them with it otherwise they're going to sue. What about 0.5% on past work? And what the minister has been denying all along, and you can all look at the budget on page 4, which is a reduction in gross wages. Then you'll see that there's no 2 billion. That's $545 million. The next item that's been reduced and you go through the ministries and you'll see, which is that you haven't secured any funds for Christmas and regression. The non-payment of the goddess and the regress if not negotiated with the unions, withdraws lawsuits and this amount of some 500 and some million more increases to more than 2 billion kunas. Also, the biggest winner of such a pompously announced economic aid from the reduction of the health contribution of 2% is the government and the state budget. Because with a reduction in your health contribution, look at the position on the same page 4, you will see that the contribution commitments have dropped 400 million more. And speaking of this contribution and helping the economy -- look, when you say 2 billion and 400, it looks a lot, and when you divide it into 200 and a few thousand more of those who pay their salaries, then you'll see that, unfortunately, 2 billion and 400 will dissipate and that many of them will not benefit, and many will ask when they make the first calculation of the value added tax, how much they will lose on not increasing VAT, and how much they get with the increase due to these two contributions. Let's say at some firm with a hundred employees it's at your annual level of 100, 120 thousand kuna. That's not God knows what amount to talk about 100 employees. But when you say 2 billion and 400, then it really looks a lot. It might have been smarter if it had already been raised by VAT and if in such a way, no matter what you're trying to say, you didn't raise taxes, you didn't raise it because of income, you patched up the revenue side of the budget. Perhaps it would have been better if you had referred a billion and more of this to direct support and subsidies to certain economic operators for certain projects. And make sure it's immeasurable how much more useful it would be than this 2 billion and 400 million. I'm telling you, at a company of 100 employees with some average salary of 5, 6 thousand kuna gross, that's at your annual level of 100, 120 thousand kuna. Also when we talk about schooling, we're all full of education, science and everything. That school has been suspended several times. Once the ministry's budget has been cut 200m kuna, the second one is the non-ensuring of resources for the transport of primary school employees, and the third is what everyone skips and no one sees, which is reduced decentralised funds by 353m. Why? So because these decentralised funds serve that the school standard is equal to everyone in Croatia, no matter how strong their city or municipality is. And from these decentralised funds, 90% of these funds go to fund education. So, on the one hand, you didn't provide means of transport, and on the other hand you reduced the education position by 280 and on the third hand you took the units of local self-government 360 million that they should send to school, so you add it up and then you talk about basic school care. Our club's already been talking about interest, it's just the position someone thinks it is, so we'll level it one way or another. However, subsidies and capital expenditures total a reduction of 230 million. So isn't this billion 230 million an incentive to the economy, is agriculture not an economy, is it the Croatian railways' economy? I would like to regret that my colleague Linic is not here to have a look at his 2011 budget debate. What he said about the funds for Croatian railways that were several hundred million more. With these funds, Croatian railways have fallen apart and with these funds they will find very interesting reductions wonderful and wonderful. So you can't take on one side an economy from the other you can't take on. And two things that need to be pointed out here and two things that should be said here that this is just a list of good wishes. One is the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers, and long is the Ministry of Health and Health. On the one hand, the Minister of Agriculture says he has so many skeletons left, the same story as his colleague from the Ministry of Health, and now look at the budget. Reduced in agriculture by nearly 500 million, reduced health care by 700 million and reduced health income by 2.5 billion kuna. So how are you gonna cover that so-called. skeletons and meet all needs? Well, don't farmers need that 500 million? And that's what desire is. If you do not negotiate different support and incentives with them, you will have to pay them these 500 million kunas. And that's why I'm worried about this budget, that's why this budget is unfortunately another catch that nobody mentions, and that's the execution of the 2011 budget. Then you'll see that the revenues aren't exactly as the minister says, and also when you see how much expenditure has been made last year, then this 3 billion-400-dollar spending bubble will be reduced to below 3 billion kuna. Health care, 700 million less. 5 billion you say there are minuses and now you have a pension system that has a minus 17 billion on one side, you have a health system that, at this point, with such legal changes, has somewhere minus 5.5 billion kuna. That's minus 22.5 billion kuna. How are you going to cover them? Is that the reason for the deficit? Is this perhaps the need for certain structural reforms? It's up to you to answer. And in the end, two things. One is investment. Who's gonna be the investor? HEP? HH? See the State Budget Act, did you provide them with enough guarantees? You're not. You've practically provided them with only two billion kunas. And in that big story about state-owned companies being investors, we forgot about two things. One is that Croatian railways and complete railway infrastructure should be built from EU funds and this is a safe area where the easiest and we can withdraw the most funds, not spend our resources. A big story about those famous tilt trains that time now shows are simply a failure, shows when certain hasty decisions are made where we end up. And in the end, he sells family silver. So, where you stopped there you continue. Croatian Post Bank and Croatia Insurance. Who sells companies at times when stock markets are at the lowest possible level? Who sells companies and that is, above all, Croatia's insurance that has a large property high value of real estate, at a time when real estate is at the lowest possible level. I think if we have received a Croatian postal bank with 550 million kuna that is not the time for the Croatian Post Bank to be sold but it is time to help the bank to be stronger and stronger, and I repeat Croatia's insurance in two or three years that company could bring several times as much as we will now. And let's not kid ourselves that we're gonna [[Intruder: Time of fellow Shucker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3680	Don't start a new sentence. Thank you. On this exhibit, we have a report of three corrections of an incorrect quote and one replica. First of all, we will hear from colleagues Borislav Kovacic, who was incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3681	Vice President Boris Kovacic will be shorter for your announcement. Thank you very much. Here's what it would be easier to answer with a replica, because in this series of inaccuracies, I'm just going to look back, so I don't know where you MPs saw euphoria in our ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3682	Please, colleague Kovac. What claim was incorrect?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3683	Euphoric shows us from these benches. It's not there. There's only responsibility here. Look at these young men of this woman and these husbands here, we're worried and we're the only ones getting married.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3684	Please, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote, please. Second correction to the incorrect quote of colleague Vesna Fabiančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3685	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's what I'd like to correct is the incorrect quote from my colleague Shucker who says this budget is a list of good wishes. This budget cannot be a list of good wishes. This budget can be the only art possible after a good period of Minister Shuker's former leave us with what he left us. And I would remind him in this correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3686	Do not remind, correct an incorrect quote. Please let us stick to the Rules of Procedure or sign up for a replica. You can say whatever you want in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3687	So I've corrected that it's an incorrect assumption that this is a list of good wishes. This corrects the situation left by the former government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3688	That's the attitude, you see. It's a political stance that you can replicate but not under the correction of an incorrect allegation. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3689	I'm correcting Mr. Shucker's incorrect claim, it's not true that we took units of local self-government. Do you forget what you brought, your government on July 1st, 2010? By changing the income tax rate, you took over 700 million kuna units from local self-government, 900 million corrections, and my small municipality of Tisno 600 thousand kuna, which is 5% of the original revenues of my municipality. And who took it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3690	Here's our colleague, Ivan Shuker, signaling that we've broken the Rules of Procedure in some place. You're giving up? Thank you very much. Then we'll hear the replica of our colleague, the distinguished representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, I'm going to replicate to you just one part, it's actually about the funds that you mentioned that are just as reduced from a series of what you've said. So it's about school funds or more specifically, here I'll just say, I believe that my colleagues from Međimurje County or colleagues will also support me, so I'll remind myself of the big problem we've been having for many years, and that's the primary school in Pribislavac where children go to elementary school in Kaštel from the 16th century where 350 students are teaching or attending classes in inadequate areas and that have been repeatedly said not to meet pedagogical standards. So 19 departments, and there was no money in this budget to respect this strategic goal and the Međimurje County, where, as you know, the SDP in power. So much for taking care of the students, of our knowledge, of the land of knowledge, of education. So my question is whether something will be done, whether or not they will have the knowledge of the space to get the money, and in addition, I only remind them that the building permit will expire and then we will waste the money that was secured last year in the state budget. So I appeal to also consider the Minister of Education and Science, I believe that he closely monitors the items concerning his ministry as well. So the Pribislavec elementary school, are we going to wait for the mayor to ask one of the ministers again to intervene with the funds as it happens every year? So, in the 21st century, we can't allow our grandfathers to attend classes in 16th-century objects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3692	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3693	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, fellow Glavak, it's a great thing when a few basics reduce funds towards the Ministry of Education that then certain capital investments simply have to fall out because you can't finance everything if you've cut over 600 million budget funds, then you want to blur it out together, so you're going to change the Law on financing local self-government units and you're saying we're going to increase your income tax rate by 2.5%. But education is not financed from that part, but it is the funding of units of local self-government, and education is financed precisely from these decentralised functions where the Government must decide at its session on a minimum standard precisely because these poorer cities and municipalities with smaller incomes based on income tax can have the same standard as those richer ones. And what I would like to say about this income tax, we have forgotten that there are layered influences here, and we have also forgotten that in the poorest municipalities, the poorest counties and the poorest cities unfortunately live people with low personal income and where the tax is reduced. So also the poor and so poor will get even less money, and where people pay actually residents of a particular city a little higher income tax because they have bigger salaries such as Zagreb and Rijeka, so these rich cities, those who have such a well-oiled neck will still get their necks even a little bit more money and it is a clear concern how much they think about the even and regional development of the Republic of Croatia, about what the Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic talked about this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3694	Thank you very much. It is up to debate Mr. Agent Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3695	Thank you, Mr. President. We've heard a lot of numbers here, billions, hundreds of millions pour themselves into us as if someone had left it for us, so now we can do what we want, and behind that are thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions of fates of people in this country. We also heard panaegirics. This budget is a historic turn, a historic turn of politics in this country. I don't think this budget is a historic turn-off, I don't think it's a turn-off at all. I think he's doing the same thing that all the authorities in Croatia have done and so far, with promises to do it harder, stronger, and on an honorable word, we won't steal. It is also said that this budget relieves work rather than capital. That's not true. If tax laws reduce the contribution to health care, they go directly into the capital pocket. If our dear domestics, first of all domestic capitalists, are not big companies, our domestic capitalists will give you 2 percentage points, which is a reduced contribution to opening new places. The minister says he trusts them. Well, the minister trusts them, I can say freely that most don't. I don't think in this situation, in this country today it's going to turn into new jobs. I believe it will turn into an increase in employers' profits. The policy direction and direction of the budget are defined by the tax laws we adopted the other day. These tax laws speak very simply, we'll take it to the citizens, we'll take it where there's something else, we'll take it to the citizens, we'll try to give it where that money should be materialized into a new value, and we'll materialize in the progress of this country. Citizens, especially workers, so those who live on their work, whether it's a clinic surgeon or an iron worker who's failed. It happens all the time. They are being taken from their pockets and made beautiful plans for the country's progress in which there is less and less room for them. This is confirmed by some of the indices in this budget, so of all the items in the general state, the government is growing the most not with those 280 where the spokesman was installed, but with an index of 126,61. This budget should be developed. To be developed he must focus on education, he must focus on children who in a few years will be smarter than us and make something more, more recent and smarter. But from what I can tell the farce about the knowledge society seems to have given up. No one mentions this syntagma anymore, no one speaks of Croatia as a society of knowledge anymore. And this budget indicates that we forgot about it, so education is 96.71 index points. In the same ministry, amazing things are growing. Bicro Business Innovation Agency 220.69. I don't know whose Bicro is. It's obviously someone's. Other agencies in the Ministry of Education are growing by 107.87 index points, and in particular the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults 154.75. What does that tell us? Higher education goes down, regular education goes down, money doesn't get smarter and better education for kids, so we'll educate them professionally. We'll educate them nicely for waiters, educate them for physical workers, educate them for what international guards are looking for our children to be educated. A similar situation is happening in the Ministry of Health. The health ministry is growing by 130.91 index points. The ministry's functioning is growing, so the administration. HZO's down and 95.68%, index points. HZO are patients of their service. The patients and their services, of course, are getting paid. The functioning of the system to call it a system or a way to collect that money is, of course, growing. The same is happening at the Ministry of Social Policy. Whether this glass of our budget is half-full or half-empty is attitude and evaluation. On one side of the assembly will say half full and fill, on the other side will say half empty and still empty. But these figures are facts. These figures are relationships, not billions, but relationships and these relationships speak in which direction the budget moves. One more thing when I'm talking about education, it's especially hitting me. I'm saying no one talks about the knowledge society, but everyone in the last few months or a year is talking about education for the labour market. I've been in education for almost 40 years. There in some ancient times, I was told that we should be educated for the needs of joint work. It's not much different than this. Then it was called "Shuvara" and we all spit on her. I don't think people should be educated for the labour market, but they should be educated to be educated and able to manage the labour market. Education is a human right, education is not a slave and cannot be underestimated or evaluated in this way. The prime minister said the budget was real. He's real real. It realistically outlines the state in which Croatia is located. That's a bad condition. What can actually make a person unhappy and pessimistic is that through this budget we don't see an open window in the light of the future. I wish I'd been wrong, I'd be very glad to have been wrong, but we'll find out very soon to 7 months will see if this works or if we'll have to make a significant rebalancing and then we'll ask the question of whose damage it's going to go to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3696	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First of all, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3697	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Representative Vuljanic, you state in the debate that the basis of this government is tax law, that it is the basis. This is only formally true, and the basis of this government is the real state of Croatian finances, so the debt to the abroad is about 47 billion euros. The basis of this budget is a domestic debt of about 40 billion kuna, the basis of this budget is not to grow gross domestic product for several years. The basis of this budget is that we can no longer borrow cheaply from anywhere. The basis of this debt is that it cannot live or develop on the basis of someone else's battery, so on re-indebted. The policy of this government is not the goal of cutting itself, so as to say, it tightens the belt. This government's policy is necessary to make a turn, and that turn can't be on old principles. That's why this budget, as far as I'm concerned, shows only the government's desire to change its policy so far. It stops living in debt and stops planning a future in other people's work. We need to think about ourselves and our options. That's this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3698	Reply to the replica Mr. Agent Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3699	Of course, this government has found itself in a situation where standard ways of exit are not visible. Now it's just a question of what she chose, whether she chose to collect on the same system as she has so far where the least resistance can be collected, it seems to me that she did it, and maybe she had a chance to make a real turn in software, in ways of thinking, in how to lead the state, and that for what happened, the biggest salaries of those who made it, it's not happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3700	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Zeljko Sabo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3701	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, in your first sentence, you said about a historic event related to the budget. So it is a historical event, for the first time a budget plan is proposed less than the previous year of consumption, and that is the fact that it is for the first time a proposal for such a budget. But I also agree with you and many who have spoken here, whether on the other side or on this side. We come to this situation that we are in this situation personally and I would be happy if in the draft budget it were, say, 400 million kuna for Vukovar to complete the renovation, but there are 200, but still not the Vukovars for it, but someone else who made these dubiosiss in the Croatian state and now we all have to bear this burden together.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3702	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3703	Once again we absolutely agreed, the dubiosis was created, you don't have money for Vukovar, the whole state has no money for what it takes, but I'll pay for it those who are least guilty, who paid for it and in creating these dubiosises, and again they'll pay you the price, so I'm saying it's not a turn, it's a continuation of politics we'll do the same thing we'll just be tighter, stronger, we'll work harder, and that's not going to steal the word of honor. That's what this budget says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3704	Thank you. Mr Branko Vuksic has his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3705	Dear President, ministers, associates, colleagues and colleagues. On January 26th, the government pledged to cut the state's costs by 4.6 billion kuna. In just two weeks, it's promised to be 1.2 billion kuna. Is that why the citizens are happy? No, they're not. Prepared for denials, this decision mildly discouraged them. Why the government hasn't cut deeper, because after the cuts, it has to answer the question as far away as possible, and there are no visions and strategies in sight. Incomes are in view of the trend of cancellation and reductions in personal consumption which are already 10% lower today compared to 2008 more than optimistic. The new income tax system, which again does not protect the poorest, and the richest are not taken enough, will not mitigate the VAT attack on domestic budgets. Despite forecasts that personal spending due to the deterioration of purchasing power will fall, the government hopes the profit tax will rise from 5.6 billion to 7.6 billion. With what and whose money? Despite the government's resignations, the government forecasts income tax growth by more than a fifth compared to last year's. What bill? Budgets and extra budget funds make it clear that the minor investment in 2012 will be further reduced anyway, it will obviously invest in HEP, in HZ by borrowing with state guarantees, which will increase public debt. If it is considered that it takes more than a year for the implementation of these projects to begin, Croatia will not record a growth in GDP by 0.8%, but GDP may fall by 8% or even 1%. True, the reduced subsidies to HZ and the incentives for agriculture have been reduced, but no one has said a single word about the rail restructuring strategy, no one has said a single word about when agriculture will be on its feet so much that Croatia does not have to import food within a reasonable period of time. It does not pass a day without the Prime Minister sending public sector workers a comforting message, but it is obvious that those who work for poor wages in private companies have forgotten. But soon they will sing to him under windows in Mark’s square, which is said to remain a restricted area for protests, despite the government’s promise that Mark’s square will free the police and allow citizens to protest in Mark’s square. This will likely happen before the first spring budget rebalance, which will require the shears to continue cutting more recklessly. And now three for Mr. Linic's little budget stuff. First word two on the Catholic Church, namely the obligation of the state to contract with the Holy See. When President Zoran Milanovic was asked why the government did not propose smaller funds to the church, he answered about the contract must be respected. That's right. However, the government does not respect the Treaty between the Holy See of the Republic of Croatia on Economic Affairs, because to respect it then would call for Article 15(2), which says if any of the high Contracting Parties considered that the opportunities in which this contract was concluded should then be changed, negotiations on its adaptation to the new circumstances would begin. So the government should have encouraged negotiations with the Holy Table to change part of the contract due to drastically altered economic opportunities. If culture, education, science, defence, safety, food production could be cut, then these same scissors should have been applied to the Donations of Kaptola, the more the contract with the Holy Table allows. In addition to this church, the years of shortages and savings increased compensation for the seized property 40%, this item could remain at least at last year's level. Great illogicalities in the financing of the suffocation and an independent theatre scene, and make injustice with inexplicable consequences. Although more than 50% of Croatia's prime and return programme is produced, independent theatres are funded by a total of 0.3% of the total funds that are being opened for the theatre. That's the worst percentage in Europe. The lower limit should be at least 20%. The more developed countries have reached a ratio of 50 for institutional theatres, and 50 for an independent theatre scene. How much money is swallowed by public institutions, best says the following examples – a ticket to the Croatian National Theatre and the City of Zagreb in 2009. They co-financed years with 917 kunas. In other theaters with 500 kuna. Independent theatres on the ticket are subsidized with less than 3 kuna. With the fact that it must be noted that independent theatres – I will only mention one thing that Exit has done in the last 10 years is fantastic performances. No independent production and its results are as underrated as in Croatia. Independent production cannot develop and threaten to die. That's why I'm calling for changes in funding relations not to increase, but to relate to changes. In Croatia, we have an inconclusive fight about how we have a film industry. You can read from the budget that... For audiovisual activities from the budget, it pays 36 million kuna, or to compare it more easily with the opportunities in the rest of Europe, 4.8 million euros, which is the price of an average European film. [[You don't understand.]] Should the filmmakers be satisfied with that amount of money? How do we know that the amount of money compared to 2011. She didn't slow down, then the answer would be yes. However, at the average price of a European film, we cannot have a film industry, nor can we have a good movie that can be used if money is well invested and made and more than invested. I therefore advocate that the Ministry of Culture, the national programme of audiovisual activity, is financed by at least 60 million kunas obtained by redistribution in order to achieve the programme to the minimum extent and with optimal results, although these are probably small things, those for culture and art mean a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3706	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Sandra Petrovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3707	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Finance, the Honorable Assistant Minister of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Although many are trying to imply in today's debate that this budget is deviating from the pre-election promises to the Kukurik coalition, I would like to stress that this budget really is. He's fulfilling his pre-election promises. The citizens gave us trust, and we gave them back their responsibility. This budget is responsible and realistic within the limits of possible, and it allows conditions for growth and development. At the same time, not presenting such revolutionary changes that would necessarily lead to the collapse of the system under today's conditions. We need to concentrate on real and significant savings in the budget, on reducing the deficit from 15 billion to 9.8 billion kuna, and we need to be aware that we are not talking about a reduction of three-and-a-half billion kuna, but we are talking about a significant amount that we hope will be even bigger in the coming years, and that ultimately, in the next discussions on the budget, we will look back at the times of this inherited budget deficit with not repeated. The greatest power of this government and this ruling majority is its responsibility. The system of this country, which has fulfilled the assumptions for membership in the European Union, must be stable, predictable, realistic and maximum fair. At the same time, it must be developed and social, and the golden environment is very difficult to find in economically favourable conditions. And let alone now that it's necessary to make cuts to reduce the deficit. That this budget is a developmental fair word and the fact that the counties, municipalities and cities that record the negative results have received greater budgetary resources, and in this regard have the opportunity to properly target increased funds. How successful it will be to see her. I sincerely hope that the local self-government unit will streamline these funds and focus them on its additional activities of applying to free funds coming from the European Union funds. I would also like to dedicate a part of the budget to which there were no specific words in today's debate, which concerns the functioning of the judiciary. In the last 10 years, which roughly coincided with the duration of the former government's mandate, as many as 10 billion kunas have been spent on E-Justice projects. A project that is crucial for the final information of the judiciary and ultimately to address the problem of overloading and the slowness of the Croatian judiciary, i.e. the judiciary. In the field of justice, the former authorities were more concerned with the appointment and resolution of the justice ministers than with concrete information and its projects. We are now in a situation where we have to finance further efforts to complete this missing project from the budget and that is only part of the commitments that this budget had to finance from the projects of the former authorities that could have been completed long ago. Of course, because of the lack of ability, desire and will of the former authorities, they are inherited in this and perhaps in the next budgets. Furthermore, I would like to encourage MPs to comment on the budget and the tax law package if you want to do just the right thing, so completely. It is not good to observe and deceive it to observe government measures individually, mainly given the entrepreneurs you claim to be additionally taxed without you burdening them. On the contrary, the Government has made it clear by this budget and by a package of tax laws that they want to create preconditions for growth and development, while at the same time protecting themselves in an appropriate manner both Croatian entrepreneurs and workers and farmers, so I believe that this budget presented by the Government is realistic in these conditions, it is just and in this inherited situation in which a different budget was located was not possible to bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3708	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3709	I'm sorry, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm the one who raised the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3710	Then here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3711	Well, here you are, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. I would realistically accept your proposal for this state budget if it were real, developed and what this government has proposed to Croatian citizens and for it to be trusted, that it is really so true. That it is not so said by the facts which are visible and undisputed, that you have reduced by 363 million decentralised funds that are necessary and necessary for education and further development of education, which are necessary for the transport of students to schools, that for 60 million were taken down by local self-government units to all those who have less or too little income, means that you appreciate them and want to put them in a position to be eventually extinguished as you said. You haven't said in your pre-election activities that you're going to increase VAT to 25% or two percentage points, which would mean it's a square or a Thursday as you like, I don't know which one, but it's clearly visible. If you had studied well, you would have seen that there is no development because no project in our county is supported by any financial means or education, no agriculture, no water supply, no disposal, everything is reduced and it will be preserved. And that biggest project pilot project of the Republic of Croatia, which is... one of the first to be moved to the Adriatic. Thanks to your inadequacies, it all says that they are in a mercy and most are in a merciless state. In all positions of Croatian Waters, it is clear that everyone has been reduced except for the Adriatic initiative that has its projects there that have been increased by 100%. 80 to 50% reduction of funds and will not be sufficient to preserve these projects that are in competition... So don't talk about development and once... could it have been a lot different done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3712	Here... Mr. Shuker wants me to tell him three times thanks. Excuse me. I was wrong to say Mr. Djakic. Answer to Mrs Sandra Petrovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3713	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Djakic, you encouraged me to respond to this replica, so you were talking about a reduction in funds going towards decentralisation. In particular, if we're talking about a reduction in funding for Virovitica-Podravska County, that's exactly what you did in the last term. In this budget, we increased the funding for Virovitica-Podravska County from 3 million 884 thousand 741 kuna to 4 million 545 thousand 280 kuna, representing an index of 117 and 17% respectively. If we're talking about an increase in VAT, I asked you in my part of the debate to concentrate on a package of tax laws, to talk about a package of tax laws or taxes as a whole, so on one part of the charge on the other, you have to burden yourself and it's so simple. If we're going to talk about projects in school, you've taken a completely different view in your county. You're on your way to building district schools that are completely irrational. You have schools with 10 students who are worth millions of kuna, and you didn't invest at the same time and you could invest in the transport of students. You've left us with exactly the system we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3714	Thank you, too. It is up to the individual debate Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3715	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In our debate, we could most often hear from the ruling and majority in this House that this budget is real, that it is developed, that it is socially sensitive, and the prime minister says it is also human. I don't agree with any of these claims, and I don't think this budget is real first. It is not realistic in that sense that revenue is planned more than it will achieve during this year, and I am also sure that the expenditure will be greater than the planned Kuna 117 billion. Experience from all previous years and personal experience in local self-government gives me the right to claim this and I am convinced that already there at 6 months before the annual holidays or after the annual vacations we will have the point of agenda rebalancing the state budget where items on the expenditure side will be increased and reduced on the revenue side. Also, this budget is certainly not developmental because the development budget cannot be called a budget where agricultural resources are reduced by 817 million kuna, where irrigation funds are reduced by 80%, where 40% reduce resources for the development of a water supply system or water supply systems. It's certainly not a development budget, nor can we call it that. Even less, we can call it a socially sensitive budget, a budget where 30% decreases in the means of encouraging the employment of disabled persons in the Professional Rehabilitation Fund or where 11% decreases in public road charges for the most disabled, or where 14% decreases in funds of the Children's Fund, the foundation as established to care and manage the care and assistance of families with five and more children. The socially sensitive budget cannot certainly be called a budget where only 710 000 kunas for housing care in the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering are reduced by 60%. A special story is the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which has been cut by 230 million kuna this year. But I don't think that would be so problematic either, because we are all aware of the situation in which Croatia is located and we are aware that it must be saved and cut, but the message sent through the projection of budgetary spending in 2013 and 2014 is when it comes to the Ministry of Defence when it comes to the defence-security system of the Republic of Croatia is catastrophic. The 2013 budget is even less planned by 50 million than in 2012 and in 2014 approximately the same. So with this budget we send a message that a country that was practically up to ten years ago in the war no longer thinks about aviation at all that there is no word about the development and production of coastal ships, that it is likely to be a dog story in Croatia as it will happen with aviation. In general, the question arises as to what kind of defence system will the Republic of Croatia have with such a budget not for 2012, but for 2013, 2014. And once you lose the potential or ability that Croatia has, it will hardly come back or can return, but to significantly higher investments than it needs to support the system. So these are some of the arguments why, of course, I won't support the 2012 budget and why I think it's neither real, and it's even less developed, social or no God human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3716	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3717	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Ivić, you certainly listed everything that's been reduced and what's important is that it won't be possible in the defence portfolio as well as in the defence ministry. In fact, it is questionable how it will work and how the Croatian airspace will be defended, since there is no notice of any possibility of purchase or restoration of the squadron. Surely the airspace is also the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and it should be taken care of as well as sea space. But we didn't find any effective funds on the board or in the budget. It is clear that, throughout the context of this budget, no funds have been provided for the completion of certain investment projects that are important and very important for further development, capacity employment, and even I talked about those contracts which are qualified and should be completed. There will be no irrigation, there will be no new schools, there will be no colleges, there will be no dormitories, there will be no roads, there will be no highways, there will be no fast roads. All these are investment standards that... [[/The noise in the hall, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3718	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3719	And no sign of them in the budget. Speaking of which, I am sure that both Virovitica-Podravska County as well as Osijek-Baranja in most parts are halved investments, stopped projects and none of that will be. Despite the efforts of all those who have so far made hundreds of building permits, they have waited for budget projections to be shown to create in the community conditions for the capacity Croatia has to build, create and employ. This can be expected to further increase employment given that no means for further development and progress have been provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3720	Thank you. Now you'll get a reply to the replica. Here you go, Mr. Representative Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3721	Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, I agree with my colleague Djakic, including the finding that we can be relatively satisfied when it comes to the position of defenders because there are no significant reductions, except for this in the Ministry of Construction where I said the funds are shrinking by 60%. But the message sent with the defence ministry's budget is truly catastrophic, we send a message that there will be neither aviation in Croatia, that in due course there will be no navy and the question is as I have said what will happen to the entire defence and security system of the Republic of Croatia. As well as fellow Djakic, it is clear, and we heard from colleagues in the earlier part of the debate that Slavonia is a special story and budget in 2012 if someone takes off 817 million kunas for agriculture it is known which area will be the most affected. If the funds are reduced 80% for the development of irrigation, it is known that this applies primarily to Slavonia and Baranja, even if it is 40% less for water supply, it mainly refers to the area of both Virovitica-Poravska and Osijek-Baranja, but also to the other three Slavonian counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3722	Thank you very much. Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3723	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps just a few words since this debate shows how different we are when we propose budgets. We're trying to say we need to invest in agriculture and we need to give subsidies. It's one finding from your discussions, and the other is unacceptable that we don't invest in the military, we don't invest in the defense, and we simply endanger the security of the state. And let's try to give an answer. Do we create these funds, whether we provide incomes to give subsidies and invest in the military? There's that answer. So far, we have received these funds that since 2010, we have escalated with the country's deficit. Escalated, 14 billion, 15.5, maybe 16 billion. We just didn't even think about whether or not we had the funds, but we were wasting it. That could be the philosophy of the budget. We are trying to say with this proposal that is no longer a philosophy of the budget, and now we are coming to the basic one, whether we are in a difficult crisis for the fourth year that is not only the consequence of the European and world crisis but of our unimplemented reforms and most of our unimplemented reforms. Are we essentially those who have completely poored the economy, and this same economy is no longer able to provide any subsidies in agriculture and even less defence of the Republic of Croatia. So the taxpayers can't do that. And this is exactly what this draft budget is saying, is that we want to fight for our budget to actively participate in the crisis in a way that enable taxpayers to try to create jobs and thus in some way affect the growth of social gross products and then try in a more correct way the distributions of this social product in Croatia with our own opportunities, not our own forces, and not our borrowings. Now I come to that word subsidy. one of the most qualitative reports has been produced by the Agency for the Protection of Market Competitions in the last two years, and these are reports related to incentives in the economy that anyone who reads them must be guided and what should be done. And then you'll see that we have a completely wrong economic incentive policy, to use subsidies as a completely abandoned system that no longer exists in Europe, and at the same time we have the worst effects. We spend enormous money, and we spend it in such a way that we have less and less agricultural surfaces, processed, and at the same time less and less domestic products. Yes, these are the reports that are available here in the Parliament, we can read them. These are reports that we have on the table as members of the government and as representatives. What are these reports for? So I guess they serve to change the policy, to turn that policy around, to try to see what we need to do to make it more productive, more quality products, more competitive products with investments in agriculture. These are agriculture policies, those are the policies that we have to prepare in this year so that we can really start investing seriously and really encourage those who produce, and not who own the country. It's something we need to change. I believe that we will change that and I believe that, finally, with investments in agriculture, we will get bigger areas and we will get safer and more competitive products at least on the Croatian market. Yeah, that's what we should do, and we didn't do it. And to defend here also a very clear message, there will be no aviation and there will be no investment in aviation until the Croatian economy can provide it, pay. And that's what makes us so different. Investing in the air force of the Republic of Croatia with credit obligations where interest already endangers this budget and any future in the Republic of Croatia would be unreasonable. Whether we will succeed, because I see that a lot of skepticism is precisely with thinking that the investment of a good part of the tax system is going towards the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and that if the Croatian economy is more competitive, it can sell more services and goods and can stop the inflow of European goods next year and on the Croatian market. So, let's cut imports. If we fail to achieve this, it is certain that there is no investment in the arms of the Republic of Croatia because there is no one to invest. Yeah, that's the difference. Someone can be in charge and talk about what, the security of the state, but it's obvious we're not safe. We're clearly not sure. We can be in debt and 20 billion this year. I'm not sure next year, I'm not sure. But be assured that our problem of going out to the market with this irresponsible policy isn't just a budget problem. No Croatian company will be able to charge itself outside, no Croatian company. So what do we do? What kind of politics is that? We will stop the development not only with the basis of the state budget, but also with the basis of the investment of some successful businessmen. That's what makes us so different. For four years, the crisis in Croatia has not been followed through the necessary measures in the state budget. To turn around here is that we are trying to tackle this crisis by redistributing tax revenues in favour of the economy expecting that they will be the ones who will really be able to turn to battle for competitive, while at the same time being reasonable in consumption. And, of course, this whole year, I've been using for reforms, this whole year for reforms, to try to change the policy of agriculture, from the rail system, I'd say the public administration's responsibilities for the efficiency of the economy, to try to get results. And the moment that they are, and the higher revenues, then it will be easier to discuss in which direction they are investing from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3724	Thank you very much. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3725	Thank you, Mr. President. It is difficult in this correction of an incorrect allegation that we will have to amend the Rules of Procedure since a representative of the Government has the right to address it several times. But here I will correct one of the incorrect allegations of the distinguished Mr. Minister, that Croatian citizens, i.e. Croatian society or Croatian budget cannot withstand this support in agriculture which is false. I don't think Croatian citizens can handle the purchase of new vehicles at the Ministry of Agriculture or the payment of debts from some of the family's responsible economies in that Ministry of Agriculture. So, I think this is the removal of aid of 817 million kunas really cutting branches and cutting production that holds Slavonia, and here is proof that today the milkers are victims of large companies that are their intention another 20. In January 2012, he sent it to the Ministry of Agriculture. And no one can pretend that he didn't know about this milk price reduction, that it's going to happen right now in the second month.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3726	Thank you. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was also reported by Mr. Representative Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3727	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I don't know what support you were thinking about when you referred to the State Support Report. I would just like to point out that all the support paid in 2011 and the tenth year in the Ministry of Economy and for medium and small entrepreneurship is fully in line with the directives and the way in which and in future support in this segment will be granted to medium and small entrepreneurs. As for support to industry, every support programme that was proposed in 2011 to the Competition Agency received a positive agreement and on the basis of this agreement we paid for the support and they amounted to around 109 million kuna in the last year. Unfortunately not enough, but when you're here, I just wanted to realize that there's probably a significant difference in support.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3728	Thank you. I'm asking the next MPs just to say exactly what they're correcting, which quote. Here you go, Mr. Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3729	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the incorrect quote of Minister Linic, where he claimed that competitive products would only be available on the market. This policy will not be able to enter the market because if we do not have thousands of hectares, we do not have the ability to produce in agriculture because their subsidies are being lifted by 800 million kuna, we cannot reach European norms because everything cares, it cares about subsidies and it cares about building infrastructure that means increasing production capacity in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3730	Thank you very much. The same correction of the incorrect quote came from Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3731	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect allegations about the lack of reforms. So the necessary reforms, as he said. That's not true. I will remind, for example, of the programme of economic recovery, a series of severe painful changes and reforms we have implemented on the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act for which your President, Mr Milanovic, said we will change that as soon as we come to power, and of course he did not... of changes and this change for the good of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] Also, the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which you have not voted for, lists only two, three segments. On the contrary, the lack of structural changes, i.e. the lack of institutional and any other preparations for this budget, will show Mr. Ministers that you will miss your revenues, but that you will be escalated and the expenditures you did not show on the spending side, such as. interest 800 million missing kunas in that item, and I could certainly list others. This preparation should have been done before the budget, not during the year as you have announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3732	Thank you very much. In an individual debate further, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3733	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As a rule, the state budget represents the implementation, implementation and materialisation of the programme proposed by the Government to the Parliament during its appointment. When trying and comparing the programme in which the Government proposed two months ago to the Croatian Parliament, when it was appointed, and when compared to the proposal of the state budget, then we can say that this budget is not on the trail of what the Government programme itself predicted and what can be clearly read from the document itself. The fact is that in 2012 as an incentive to economic growth, the government announced the realisation of public sector investment projects that should amount to around 8 billion kuna in total. When in the government's programme of readings that are investments, for example in tourism, it's Brijuni Riviera, Dujlovo Kukari etc., etc., when you say and talk about energy then it's four smaller power plants on Savi, there they are listed, then... Ploming, Ploče, etc., etc., when it comes to infrastructure then it is the construction of a railway railway line from Rijeka via Zagreb to Botov, and so on all other items are listed projects whose realisation should be worth around 8 billion kuna in financial terms this year. [[You don't understand.]] But when these projects are better looked at then it is quite clear that out of almost all of them, and I think just about all the projects in this year will be nothing for reasons that no project or almost any project has been issued, so neither the building permit nor the confirmation of the main project, for many of these projects a project documentation has been developed, but for some of these projects, for example for a flat-rate railway line, the Primor-Gorski County has not adopted a change in the spatial plan to enable the realisation of this large infrastructure project in the construction of the railway line. Therefore, if that is the case, and is because everyone who follows the implementation of projects in public companies, it is clear in public enterprises what condition they are when, as far as the documentation concerns all these projects, then I have to say that I am saddened by the fact that the government is giving up a project that could already be realised in this year because there is also a building permit, a contract signed with Croatian contractors, and its realisation in financial terms amounts to more than 2 billion kuna. So it's about the Pelješko bridge that the government has just said through the lack and these investments could continue and thus encourage the fallen economy, primarily in the section relating to the construction sector, and on the other hand, the construction of the Peljega Bridge also enables the engagement of Croatian shipyards because the construction of the Pelješko bridge requires about 50,000 tons of steel, which is equivalent to building 5 tanks of 50 thousand tonnes. The fact is that the past government slowed down the construction of the Pelješki bridge clearly in recession times, but the fact that the road commission, i.e. at the end of last year, established a new dynamic for the construction of the Peljega Bridge, which is planned to be completed by the end of 2017 and which should be provided at the level and at the positions of the state budget by around 330 million kuna. In provisional financing, the former government envisioned the construction of the Peljega Bridge with a total of one-quarter of these 75 million kuna assets. I really don't see what would make the government give up building the Peljega Bridge, the more the planned dynamics of its construction by 2018 absolutely from the aspect of sustainability of public finances and the state budget possible, without talking about all the other reasons that are justified and which contribute to the construction of the Peljega Bridge. The Pelješki bridge is a historic Croatian project, because it abolishes the discontinuity in Croatian territory, on the other hand it is a transport project because it draws the far south of Croatia out of traffic isolation, it is an economic project because it enables the restoration of the economic, demographic restoration of Croatia's southern Pelješac and the surrounding islands, not to speak the Dubrovnik coast, Dubrovnik and Konavala and thus the project is practically a Millennium project and I see no special reason why the Government has given up on this project. Giving up on the Pelješko Bridge project sends a clear message to the public of Dubrovnik-Neretva County that it will remain traffic-insulated for the next 15 to 20 years. On the trail of what I am saying, the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska has adopted the Declaration of Transport Isolate in which it seeks, signed by all council members of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County to continue building the Peljega Bridge. In fact, until the Pelješki bridge is realized, citizens of that county will be second-class citizens because in order to go to the rest of their country they must cross the border four times, carry out border and customs formalities which really brings us all residents of that county into the position of second-class citizens. So I said that this project except for traffic, it's an economic project and at the moment when there's really no investment, I'm surprised that we're giving up that investment that's been signed, for which more than 200 million kuna has already been invested, which represents 10% of the value of the entire investment, which is going to generate additional costs, and they're not shown in the state budget because of the termination of the contracts, the compensation of the contractor and the preservation of the construction site itself. Therefore, the promise to the citizens of southern Croatia that they need them and that the best solution is to connect the highway through the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina thinks it does not hold water. Namely, the Pelješki bridge is not contrary to the construction of that road, but all of us who are engaged in this activity know that this part of the highway through Bosnia and Herzegovina in the length of 8 or 10, or 12 km because we do not yet know that exact route, is a question that the neighbouring state does not know when it will solve. Namely, the basic infrastructure, transport project of Bosnia and Herzegovina is our neighbouring country's 5C corridor, which goes from Budapest via Osijek, Sadanac, Zenica, Sarajevo, Mostar and comes to the city, the port of Ploče is a project that is already very slow to be implemented, which is the priority of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I say, it is slowly realised. And then how the project that really means Bosnia and Herzegovina will be realized does not mean anything in the traffic sense, for which neither the route is known, nor the sources of funding are known. Therefore, the promise that a quality roadway for Croatia's far south will be built through Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, here I propose that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will also submit an amendment to provide funds within the Croatian Roads' financial plan for the previously established slow dynamics of the construction of the Pelješki Bridge. So here I am, Mr. Minister, in favour of taking this amendment seriously, because this project, as I said, is both economic and historical, and transport and represents, opens up the possibility and perspective of Croatia's far south. When I talk about Croatian islands, because it is clear that the Pelješki bridge is also in function and development of southern Croatian islands, then I must say that I also find it unacceptable that in the financial plans of Croatian roads in position – the state programme of construction and arrangement of national roads on Croatian islands is reduced from 114 million kuna to 18 million kuna and 500 thousand kuna. It's a decrease of over 90%. I don't know what Croatian roads with only 14 million kuna will do on Croatian islands when the total length of state roads on Croatian islands is about 800 km. Therefore, here I am asking you also to study this item well in this sense and to suggest to Croatian roads to harmonize this position really with the needs of islanders with the needs to arrange the still-dwelling, destroyed state roads on Croatian islands, such as Hvar, such as Brač, etc. And one more thing I also have to point out, I'm sorry the government gave up the project to encourage construction and state housing. It was a program that in just 3 months came across the general interest of young people in Croatia because they were generally users of this model and in only 3 months were sold by that model a thousand and 500 apartments. Only 4000 apartments were sold for comparison with the incentive housing programme, which the former Racan government boasted in 11 years. Thus, the project, which only sold a thousand and a half apartments in 3 months, is being abandoned by the government and plans to provide funding for only 500 apartments this year. I ask you to continue with this project as much as a large fund of unsold apartments in Croatia and that through this model can indeed sell a very large number of apartments and thus encourage the construction of new apartments and allow for the clear and development of construction in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3734	Thank you very much. Here, you've only caused one correction to the incorrect quote and three replicas. Correction of the incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3735	I was a participant in the adoption of the Declaration of Transport Connectivity of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. We brought it in 2009. Until today, you've done nothing about it. You didn't do anything. Mrs. Kosor, you're on County Day 2010, I knew there might be a question, I doubted, you made a promise that the bridge would be finished in 2015. It writes fine here, here it says, and that the road, the highway, will be 12. And let's remember that we've already opened our works on the Ploche-Dubrovnik highway a long time ago, and we still don't know where it's going to go. We've opened a project.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3736	Thank you very much. I'm sure you'll agree, then, to correct the incorrect assumption that we don't have it anymore, because you see now you can't react. Mr. Representative Đuro Puplic drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3737	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So Mr. Bacic mentioned several projects that are scheduled to be implemented in the term of probably this government if they arrive. I would only mention that last year the public sector has invested more than 10 billion kuna in Croatia, so the state budget, which is local self-government, which is HEP, which is Janaf, which leads, which is also what contributed to the fact that last year we had a growth of 0.8% in the second quarter, in the third quarter of 0.7, here we are waiting for data for the whole year. But here we believe and we want this government to reach that 8 billion in this year, so it's probably going to kind of scrape up that GDP growth out of here, these massive 0.8%, and when we did it last year, it was a disaster. However, I would like to say that the public sector cannot be a growth generator, but it will only be a successful private entrepreneurship. And there's one thing I'm repeating here is this fundamental question because here's the finance minister here, just one question that came out in the press today. What will the finance ministry say when they see companies pull capital massively just to avoid taxing dividends and share in profits at a rate of 12% above the untaxable 12 thousand kunas? Namely, to encourage a new tax solution many have now set out for their capital, who can borrow a loan to pay off the share in profits, the advance of last year's profits is paid on a rare basis and all retained profits from earlier years. This is the result of tax reform. So, fully demoted private entrepreneurship, which we expect to invest and employ Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3738	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3739	Thank you, Mr. President. True, I agree with my colleague Popijac that the projects announced in the section relating to the financing of public sector infrastructure projects have already been announced and designed in large part at the time of our government. But when we announced a 12 billion kuna investment in the public sector a year and a half ago, Mr. Radimir Cacic today said that it was nothing that it was actually a continuation of the regular work of public companies. Therefore, the government should not in particular point out something that public companies do in themselves. And today we are witnessing that the government is solely based on the financing of projects coming from the public sector. And it is true that you were a councilman of the County Assembly when this declaration was adopted and that is why I expect you today to support this and the amendment of the Club of Representatives to get Dubrovnik-Neretva County out of traffic isolation and raise your hand to continue the construction of the Peljega Bridge. And it's not true that you don't know the route to Dubrovnik today. It is unfortunate that if you from the ruling coalition do not know which route is the highway towards Dubrovnik. The route is outlined in the county spatial plan in the spatial plans of all units of local self-government. Therefore, we at the HDZ club see the only way to connect Dubrovnik by highway through Croatian territory from Doli to Osojnik. This trail also included project documentation in the Croatian roads, and I expect Croatia's highways to lead this year's highway construction project as the only road that Dubrovnik will be connected to the rest of Croatia's highway network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3740	Thank you. And I expect you won't rephrase another time a colleague you can't, but who you've come up with a reply to. All right, I'm just telling you. No, no, I let you go. I'm just saying, you're a little out of the box for the Rules of Procedure, but it's okay. Mr. Representative Damir Rilje replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3741	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, a fellow MP. Here I wanted to just think whether to pick up or not but I had to know. There are no only Peljek Bridges there are other bridges. It is that he is very important, one of the most important connects the southern edges of our homeland absolutely. But there is another bridge that has long been in the Croatian Roads budget I end up applying to EU funds, you know, but the fact that one of the most difficult traffic points in Dalmatia is also not provided for it. But, of course, by means of consolidation or inability and in the need to consolidate the budget, I believe that we would all try to find and find a bar as some kind of project that we could actually look back on in some way, just like you did on this story. I agree that all projects that will be in the position of job creation and economic growth need to be done. But the fact is that the inherited state of the budget is exactly the way it is and generated. And now we don't have the money for it unless we're going to re-indebted and re-indebted. So, by sticking to the theme of the bridge, I have to tell you that it's a bridge that's attached to a road that's by traffic, I don't know maybe in the third place in the country, say. I don't think it's negligible and continues on the Kastelan road from Split to Trogir to explain. On the other hand, the fact that this bridge is applied you know what it means, that one year when we join the EU, we will hand over that application and then we will come up with a situation to build it once. That doesn't solve our problem today when we need it most. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3742	Thank you, too. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3743	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague, you knock on the open door. I absolutely agree with you and support your efforts to build a bridge near Trogir, though. I know that Croatian roads have worked on building ideas and project documentation, so I support and you give the amendment, and I agree with that that Croatian roads continue this year with everything that it takes to build that bridge because I know just how clogged the road you mentioned earlier is. And it really is necessary to approach the realization of that bridge as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3744	Thank you very much. Another replica. Ms. Representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3745	Thank you, Mr. President. So listening to this debate by the esteemed representative Bačić, I certainly need to notice that there are 150 of us here in the assembly room, and if we were to look from the corner of each of us, the same theme would certainly look different to us. And then we certainly don't all see the same thing and we don't all see the same. For example, I see this budget, which the government of the Republic of Croatia led with Zoran Milanovic, as a complete promise in the Kukuriku coalition campaign. I see it in a way that just then was promised determination, a promised responsibility. I see that at that time a big turn in politics towards the Republic of Croatia was promised, and that is clearly evident and obvious from this budget. This budget is the first budget just to remind you which reduced the expenditure side. That is what was promised to our citizens and that is what this government has received the support of citizens and what it is doing with their support. This is a new direction through the budget. This is a new direction that you can also see in the major deficit policy in the Republic of Croatia. Let's not forget that it's still a major deficit of 9.9 billion kuna. But it is far, far less than 15 or almost realised 17 million kuna deficits from the government of Jadranka Kosor in 2011. And he will certainly know that from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have entrusted this government with Zoran Milanovic with confidence. Of course, it's not enough to work only on deficits, it's not enough to work only on savings, but this government has shown that it can save on both salaries and subsidies, that it can speak fairly and responsibly to its citizens. But this government at the same time shows a growth plan, shows a growth plan of 0.8% of gross social income, and exactly by referring to what you said yourself, investment and investment that will invest in production. And I ask you to start using bridges as one metaphor, bridges that will bring us together, to build a new bypass that leads us to the only future of Croatia, which is just this budget-based by the government of Zoran Milanović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3746	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3747	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you know very well that the budget is just a plan, so the government was planning to cut the deficit to 10 billion this year. I must say that I am surprised at the debates that come from your club that say that the government has decided to change philosophy and stop living on debt in Croatia. By the way, 10 billion kuna is not small, it's still a big debt, it's somewhere around 2.8% of the deficit. Thus, we will have to finance this debt either by new borrowing or by selling family or state goods. So, if the deficit really is 10 billion we will see at the end of the year, and according to what we in the club have been saying all morning and all day, we expect a very fast budget rebalance to make all those items in expenditure that are underrated truly realised in the amounts that we have stated. We've already said that there's no money missing for interest, no money to pay at the Ministry of Science, no pensions. We'll see on the 6-month report whether the deficit really is 10 billion or bigger. In any case, I commend the urge to reduce the deficit, to reduce the expenditure of the state budget, but I warn you that this is still the plan, that in six months we will see if it really works out the way you planned. We at the HDZ Club hold that the budget is underrated when it comes to expenditure and that it is overrated when it comes to revenues. Therefore, they were alive and seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3748	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3749	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian economy and the private sector are now draining the last drops, as well as the pockets of Croatian citizens are actually draining the last kuna primarily because of new tax burdens. In fact, the question is who will soon be able to pay these taxes at this rate, let alone pay certain taxes that you expect 20 and 30 percent increased. I think it's simple and irresponsible and irresponsible. All unfortunately agree, therefore, both domestic and foreign experts to follow the decline of the gross national product about 1%. Of course, we'd all like it if it wasn't, but it is. Over the past few years, the Croatian economy, the private sector, has lost tens of thousands of jobs in the EU's biggest crisis. It is really impossible to establish that the economy, which says in the budget, would expect more than 35% of income growth from profit taxes, as you expect more than 20% of income growth from taxes and income cuts. I don't want to be cynical here because this is too serious a debate and too serious a time, but a man actually wonders if you have any place else to charge taxes because simply in Croatia, I don't see where that tax will be charged. There's nothing in this budget that makes us feel better or that makes us either employers or workers have a new hope. This is simply buying time while we pray to God for a miracle to happen to all of us together. I may have misunderstood something in the past few months, but Croatian citizens have given you a mandate for a turnaround, you have received a mandate for brave, determined moves and to offer a vision to Croatia, the Croatian economy, all of us. Instead, unfortunately, here's the budget that shows nothing. So you have been given the mandate above all to say that we must no longer be hostile to domestic and foreign investors, you have been given the mandate to say that the only way out of the crisis is the long-term sustainable development of the private sector or private entrepreneurship. You have received a mandate from Croatian citizens in fact to say that if we continue as before we will no longer be able to be in charge and the question is who will, when and how to receive salaries and pensions. Instead, unfortunately this budget of yours says what Krležina never said either. As sweet as that sentence of Krležina is, however, it is the highlight of Krležijan irony, that sentence is actually of indecisiveness, and that sentence is actually a sign of peace with its own evil fate. Here's what this budget says, instead of a clear plan we got improvisation, instead of hope that the government has power and that it has a vision we got improvisation and instead of twisting we got improvisation. That's why, of course, this budget is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3750	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3751	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Dear fellow MP, I wouldn't answer, but I have an unfinished story that specifically concerns you as the former economy minister. You won't be mad, but I have to tell her now. ... So, not entering the origin of the revenue of this budget and how much and how, in fact, the origin of the revenue of this budget can actually come from the cost or expenditure items, the fact is that more and more income will have to come from economic growth. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] One of these facts that were for economic growth is actually potential investments that were to take place. One of those was also in your ministry, for one of the potential maybe you'll remember it, an investment project that you should have listened to and looked at. I don't blame you for that right now, but it was about... for cruisers in the area of inspective real estate as much as it looks now near Split Airport. [[You don't understand.]] He was sitting on your desk. Why am I saying this now? Here you may feel called, but I have no intention of doing anything about it at all. The fact is, you had him. No matter how serious or unserious, but I think he's quite serious because around him, if no other people had fun, the State Ministers. Some were from your ministry, and so were the county that was extremely supportive in that regard. So, Split-Dalmatia County. But of course, everything cares at the ministry level. Further than that, I don't know. Maybe I should have known. On the other hand, we must also know that all other opportunities in the over-indebted budget and what it has generated over the years do not actually leave the possibility for local self-government units except for the possibility of investing and the possibility of investing through such projects, no matter how invaluable or bad they seem, and the fact is that the project is still alive and is being worked on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3752	Dear colleague, I must answer you, of course, given the fact that just the last government left this new government approximately at various stages of some nearly 20 billion kuna public projects, of which here after two months even for those who could actually work and build Zagreb Airport, you have no choice whether you will sign it. And I have to fill you in on the next one. So the government has just passed for the first time followed intensively and through the work of all ministries of private entrepreneurs and private investment and domestic and foreign projects. So it was only in my office when you called me personally, so as Vice-President of the Investment Government, there were approximately 45 billion kunas of private projects with a name and a last name, a location, a value in which they are located and all of this was handed over to the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3753	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3754	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I would at first ask one question which is the difference between the budget and the budget rebalance. In my view, none, except that the budget is made at the end of the year if, if it is not an election year or if the election year is taken as it is now in the first quarter of the current year, and the budget rebalance is made when the government decides it can be the fourth month, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, tenth, eleventh, 12th. There could be three rebalancings, etc. etc. That's what I'm saying why? Because I've heard it here many times today. This is the first time you've reduced expenses. This is the first time the spending party has been reduced, and they haven't been abolished, I don't know some birth benefits type items, etc. etc. I'll just remind you that in 2009, in two budget rebalances, one was in 4 months 2009 when expenditures were reduced by 7 billion kuna, and the second rebalancing was a little later in 7 and 8 months when it was cut by another billion kuna. So 8 and a half billion kuna expenditure was reduced in 2009 to budget rebalance not on budget. But I don't think there's any difference between the budget and the budget rebalancing, and that's why it's not the first time that one budget is made with a reduction in expenditure. In this draft budget, we have a budget reduction of 3.4 billion kuna and I think that's good. But if we go into the structure of these expenditures then I have to notice that we don't see any changes in any reform measures that are, which will result in such expenditures as 3.4 billion kuna. So there aren't any, at least I don't see some reform measures that I repeat will result in these 3,4 billion kuna savings. These 3.4 billion kunas are made up of unaccountable expenses for the employees of a billion and a half kuna. The minister says it will succeed in eliminating overtime, working on a certain time, etc. etc. Okay. We have material expenditures that decrease by 220 million kuna. We have a reduction in subsidies for agriculture and Croatian railways by 934 million kuna. I'll talk about it later. We have a health reduction of 742 million kuna. If we add a billion kuna to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the rate of reduction by 2%, the rate of contribution is another 2 and a half billion kuna. Then how it's going to continue to develop over the course of this year, we'll just see about that. Therefore, by reading these figures, I can conclude that there are no funds missing, no funds for employees' fees, no funds for interest. That's what we were talking about. which are not in this budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a lack of funding for pensions, etc. etc. So, I'd like to and I'd like to, and I don't think there's anyone here who wouldn't want this budget to be realized the way he's supposed to be. But by reading these figures, and knowing a certain budget and the situation that happens when that budget is transformed into life and into an economy and through collective agreements and through everything he has influence on and the budget is the main document of a government policy and the main document of one I would say economically and every life in one country then I have to show one reserve in relation to all this is written, but good. We'll watch, we'll follow everyone together, and we'll see where that leads. Now, as far as the Croatian railroads are concerned. I have to say that over the past seven years from the HZ system, and we agree in many ways and in many ways, but I have to say that it is clear that it has gone voluntarily but about 4,000 employees have gone away and that it has been reduced so much, that in three financial years we have reduced donations for Croatian railways by a billion and 56 million kuna, which is not little, by a billion and 56 million kuna in three years, and that we have nevertheless maintained that system. It's a system that requires huge investments, it's a system that requires reforms, it's all standing, it's a system that requires and privatization... Guys, so we did something about it when two, three societies were privatized,... [[You don't understand.]] were in competitions and 5.6 times, however, there were no interested etc., etc. [[You don't understand.]] But what I mean. I'm saying that this reduction from a billion 896 million kuna to a billion 354 million kuna, I think and I'm afraid it won't be sustainable when it comes to Croatian railways. Okay, let's go into privatization of dependent societies, but it's one process that lasts, it can't be done in a month or two, and every month the system needs to work, pay the wages, etc., etc. Let's say we fire some workers, now I don't know how many, because we've heard different numbers, but that's one process, and that's the process. There are collective agreements, there are obligations under collective agreements, there are severances etc., etc., and I repeat the month goes by quickly and wages should be paid every month. So it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that these funds will not be enough for this one system that I repeat about it we agree that we should continue to restructure it and reduce subsidies etc., etc., although there is no railway in Europe, I cannot say for the world that I do not know, but in Europe certainly which is not subsidized in one way or another by the state budget. The EBRD credit that you are talking about and we have talked about is one of the solutions and it is not a bad solution, but this institution is financing exclusively projects that pass their sustainability assessments and require a long-term procedure that some dependent societies will primarily... which employs about a thousand 400, 500 people put into difficulty. [[You don't understand.]] So not to spread the railroad story now I think that figure will absolutely have to change. One more thing, because I see that time is slowly leaking to me, so, planning growth, a growth of 0.8%, but again looking at this budget, I see that this growth is being placed on the budget and on investment from public companies. Here is how much of the Energy Efficiency Fund is probably a small, non-financial asset of 700 million kuna, Croatia's roads a billion and 267 million kuna, I don't know how little, non-financial assets a billion, etc., which, and investments from public companies of the Croatian road, Croatian highways I apologize, HEP, JANAF etc., etc., now that is, it must not be bad, but it has been said before and you all said that economic growth cannot be based on public sector investments because it generates a long deficit, and I see that here you are now planning investment from the public sector. Therefore, I would just like to remind you of the Zagreb airport, an investment that is absolutely good for me, we have led it to the end, on this government whether it is to accept or reject or project Brijuni Riviera which is therefore a healthy investment, an investment that we need right now. And one more thing, because that's what I'm going to submit to the amendment, one project so-called. A3 is not a planned domestic component in the budget, probably because there is no money, but 7m euros have been withdrawn from the European Investment Bank for a whole series of projects nominated units of local self-government. It would be good if there were at least something planned at the position of the domestic component of 10 million, 20 million, etc., because then the European Investment Bank immediately gives as much and could be in this year when we need investments, when we need a state investment budget, when they need a state investment, then absolutely there could be more investment there than we will have in this way when it is not proposed. Here's the end of my time, so I won't do it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3755	Thank you. On this exhibit we have a single replica, a colleague from your club, respected representative Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3756	Thank you very much. And here's a few words already, he mentioned the esteemed representative Calmeta's 10 billion kuna deficit, which is foreseen by this budget, but we need to be clear here and say that this structured deficit of 10 billion kuna without cutting rights simply doesn't hold water. I feel the same way as some who have debated today, as well as the esteemed representative of Kalmet, that incomes are overrated, and expenditures are underrated, and that will result very recently I hope the same before summer with the rebalance of the state budget where we will probably call for today's debate and see who was right. As for VAT increases and many independent economic analysts and leading bankers... or, at the very least, the divided Croatian public, mainly the professional public on whether the VAT increase is going to result in higher incomes or will lead to reduced consumption of citizens or otherwise delaying the consumption of citizens, and therefore VAT revenues will be lower than when VAT was 23%. [[You don't understand.]] So according to these economic analysts and leading bankers, they say some estimates that the deficit this year will be not 10, but between 15 billion and 17 billion kuna. He mentioned the esteemed representative Calmet and health care, where in the budget itself there are billions and a half of kunas, a reduced rate of health contributions to an additional two and a half billion kuna and health care will be missing somewhere between three and a half and four billion kunas this year. I hope at the end of this year we don't have to sell Pliva shares to settle the debt in health care, and here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3757	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3758	And I'm done, we'll be counting billions to a billion and a half kuna more in health this year than we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3759	Next in line for the debate of 10 minutes is distinguished representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So said Mr. Prime Minister in the introduction that this is one of the calmest discussions about the budget, and this in some way proves that this cut is probably quite optimally affected, although perhaps even these last discussions and replicas of colleagues from the same club are somewhat defunct. Namely, for all of us, and for Croatian citizens, for someone less, for someone more, it became quite clear to someone before someone else that we couldn't go on like this. Excessive borrowing, regardless of the amount of interest that practically grew from day to day, and only until then, while someone outside wanted to give these loans, certainly wasn't the way we could go further. This proposal therefore constitutes a national budget for 2012. A strong and responsible move by the Croatian government. The objectives of the budget are clearly declared, the necessary fiscal consolidation through the reduction of deficits, so the one that remained 16 billion and the short-term strengthening i.e. Maintaining our position on the international market has been a success so far in creating a basis for the development of the economy with the protection of the most socially sensitive groups. So, in the ruling coalition, we believe that resolving the impact of the crisis and strengthening citizens' standards is only possible in the long term with constant economic growth and therefore the budget is conceived in this way. The fiscal consolidation, the first objective, therefore, was necessary to access both the expenditure and the revenue side of the budget, and despite some of the views expressed today, the total tax burden has not been changed. The more the calculation of the budget revenues moving around around 0.5% larger than the realisation last year is conservative since the implementation of these 2011 revenues has been calculated so these 600 million kunas of the European component and neither the inflation increase nor the government's projection of growth was taken into account by the finance minister. The increase in VAT incomes compensated citizens with reduced income rates to 10% for oil, fat, sugar, children's food and water supplies, and, in other ways, changes in income tax classes, and raising the non-taxable share of income from 1800 to 2200 kuna, which will allow all with incomes below 8000 gross to increase their income available, and hence nearly 800 thousand of our employees. And at the same time, with this budget, we are discharging the economy through a reduction in health insurance rates. This measure of colleagues from the opposition Mr. Shuker and others tried to relativise by burning that its effects of nearly 2 and a half billion kuna will not be felt, as they will be scattered on all employers in the Republic of Croatia. Employers in the Republic of Croatia do not agree with that. I remind you colleagues and colleagues that this amount is therefore about 2 and a half billion kuna equal to the amount of interest that our entrepreneurs spend annually on all investments made in the Republic of Croatia, so it is no wonder that employers practically accepted it by both hands. By significantly reducing parafiscal burdens, water contribution, forests, monumental rent, further discharge is carried out, which is not channelled into the budget, but in strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. HBOR's capitalisation of 500 million kuna, corporate loans 1% lower, raising the border to VAT system to 230 thousand kuna, raising the limit to 800,000 kuna to calculate VAT, so a trip to a three-month account, announced moving 15 days around the VAT itself, are all measures that contribute to the same goal, and this is a struggle for each job, a struggle to save the economy the only way out of the Republic of Croatia. Already said colleagues and colleagues, this is the first budget on a scale smaller than the previous budget. It's nominally 4 billion kuna, and in reality, even 7 billion kuna. My predecessors also talked about increasing certain expenditures that have made this task more difficult since the increase in pension expenditure, so through their indexation, through the increase in interest on loans and not so, so that we cannot assess this increase as negligible as can be heard in certain comments, especially if we take into account the fact that we are making the budget – today it is 20. – by the end of the month, on 24 February probably, so 2 months less and it refers to only 9 months standing before us. Is the reduction at this hour enough? Now, that's what we can argue about. This government and we in the ruling majority estimate that it is optimal at this time. But what we can't argue about is that the direction is positive and that everyone confirms it. They confirm this by international institutions, he said on behalf of our Club fellow Dragovan, quoting the IMF, Fich, but what is even more important to us, that this budget and its guidelines were supported by members of the GSV, so both employers and trade unions, who, with all due caution in rhetoric, who must certainly wear the government's macroeconomic objectives. The Croatian National Bank and its leader, Mr Rohatinski, confirmed this through a statement, let me quote: "The direction the government is going is good. It's not just a one-year budget, it's a start-up of a long-term sustainable fiscal policy." The governor certainly warned that the necessary fiscal consolidation was achieved through measures of permanent character, not only by short-term giving up on certain expenditures which this government is very aware of and which the error of the previous government will not repeat. But to us, and here it is said, we continue to have a problem with the lack of income over expenditure, so the problem of the deficit of 9.9 billion current deficits. Although the deficit is no longer two-digit in absolute terms, it decreased to 2.8% of GDP consolidated to 3.2% of GDP if we take both companies and units of local self-government. But it's still a significant fall. But what's more significant than the deficit itself, with the unequivocal need of its further reduction, which includes government projections for the next two years, is the question of what it's spent and what it's going to be spent in, but that's what I was talking about at the beginning, so I wouldn't repeat myself. Therefore, the vote of this budget is only a basis for far more responsible management of the resources of the Republic of Croatia during the period ahead. This budget with our support becomes the most important tool that will allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to show and prove that Croatia can do better. It's good for all of us to keep both the opposition and the public as active as possible. Let us be watched and evaluated as critically as possible at the work ahead of us. Nevertheless, the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia is our common goal, and this budget is just one of the first steps in this case we have concluded and you will agree on the positive direction Croatia is taking in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3761	Thank you. We've got two replicas on this exhibit. But before I give my word to my colleagues who have come forward for replicas, let me give a few notices. An agreement has been reached between the club representatives to discuss the draft budget today up to 20 hours and 30 minutes. Then we'd move on to the budget and we could finish about 21 hours. Although the amendments normally concern the completion of the debate, an agreement has been reached with the government that amendments to the budget can be submitted by tomorrow at 10 a.m. Tomorrow morning, the committees would be working for the rest of the agenda, and the plenary session would start tomorrow at 12 o'clock p.m. We are now going to the replicas for the personal exposure of counterpart Igor Radjenovic. The first one came from a respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Radjenovic, speaking of the mini tax reform as a HDSSB club, we supported most of this package, but we did not support an increase in VAT. Considering it a new blow to both the citizens' and the economy's standards. On the other hand, almost 3.5 billion kunas of higher taxes and higher tax revenue were cut in this budget than in 2011 and the biggest puzzle of this budget is that, among other things, income tax will settle which is almost 25% higher than in the 2011 budget when 500 to a thousand people lose their jobs daily. At the same time, changes to the laws proposed by the government to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government have reduced only the share of the settlements, with an increase in income of 1.5% to local self-government units and 0.5% to regional self-government. I believe that this law, therefore, which is in the procedure, can also be added to the amendments as well as this entire budget. And I hope the government hears about the amendments especially for the amendments coming from Slavonia. Otherwise, local self-government units have lost nearly 3 billion kunas of revenue through various forms of fiscal decentralisation. And that is the only truth that comes from all these packages since 2007 when the constant income of local self-government units is reduced to the expense of the state budget starting with the centralisation of profit tax. And here is in front of the Committee on Local Self-Government that is the last sentence we have proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to systematically start applying decentralisation measures that will apply not only to income tax but also to profit tax but ultimately to value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3763	Reply to the replica of counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vinkovic, it is nice that you supported all tax measures and not an increase in value added tax. Of course, it has been said several times in the discussions and representatives of the government but also members of the Kukuriku coalition that a package of tax measures simply must be looked at together and he has his long and demand side and on that side it is not possible to extract certain measures so something I like something I don't like. What is the government's decision and it is clearly declared through the mouth of Prime Minister Milanovic and Finance Minister Linic and the first Vice-President for the economy of Mr Cacic and all others is therefore the transfer of the burden from spending to the economy, and that is the way this government has decided to go. As far as income tax revenues are concerned, you said now and several colleagues before it was estimated to be growing 20%. Namely, what may have led to a confusion and we did not read all the numbers in detail, the realization of that tax last year was much better than the plan. So the plan for this year is practically at the level of realisation, so I'm talking about income tax at the level of realisation last year plus minus 10, 20 million, which is expected to be compensated with the somewhat increased efficiency of the tax administration and the collection of that income. So no mysterious twenty percent increase came just last year's realisation of that tax was better than it said in the plan and those figures that we are now comparing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3765	Another replica of the esteemed colleague Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3766	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Radjanovic said the budget is cut nominally by 4 billion and realistically by 7 billion. I could have used the Institute of Inaccuracy, however, I chose a replica so as not to turn out to be closing the debate. That's not true. And we're all fooling ourselves here with one fact and I repeat it repeatedly on the other hand, and I'm going to try through one thought through one sentence to say what it's about. For example. From health care, health care is being stripped of 4 billion. 2 billion 400 through VAT, or through that salary contribution, 740 million direct download and through this decentralised funds that are eliminated 4 billion. And what happens to my colleague Rajedenovic now? Let's forget what we're removing from our gross salary contributions. Let's forget about what's being downloaded through decentralised funds. Let's concentrate on these 740 million that you're removing from health care directly. You have not stripped the rights of the citizens of Croatia or whatever you want. Health rights and hospitals and health care will spend as much as this year and more because health care is growing at an annual rate of 5 to 10%. But let's take it to spend as much as this year. And what's gonna happen at the end of the year, so I said there'd be a hook. I guarantee it, I'll bet in the Parliament with a dictionary like this with whoever he wants with both the ministers and the Prime Minister. The health care will spend the same and you nominally reduced him 740 million and then the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mr. Linic will have to go to the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Washington and London to take credit to cover healthcare debts and then come to the same for you. Did you pay that health care bill through a loan or what you're trying to say here is that you're reducing health care, if you haven't reduced health costs, if you haven't reduced real health spending, you haven't done anything. That's what I'm saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3767	Reply to the replica of counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3768	So the next logic of an esteemed colleague, then the savings would certainly be even bigger if we count that these health savings are actually this additional cost in health care. So I'm going to repeat my colleague Marasovic's nominally 3.4 billion, 600 million is so-called. the European component and what has made it even more difficult to reduce the expenditure is the unequivocal indexation of pensions that have gone into expenditures and some others have also reduced interest on loans in view of the increased foreign debt. What's also important to say for the public and for our sakes here is that when projections are done then they always get involved and so on. Inflator expectations and in that figure that was spinning before all of our discussions, so that assessment of the Croatian National Bank on the needs of 9 billion savings, the Croatian National Bank included these inflationary expectations of 2.4% in that assessment. So I'm standing by my weight that so this budget has actually saved at least 7 billion kuna, and I'm saying on the real side 3.4 plus... Well, practically 4 billion nominally. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3769	Before we proceed with the individual debate, two more notices. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System was convened for tomorrow at 14 am, however, a session at 14 am will not be held but at 10 am in the Hall of Mažuranic. Also, a session of the Committee on Local Self-Government was called for tomorrow at 12 o'clock, not to be held at 12 o'clock but also at 11, also at the Hall of Mažuranić. We're continuing an individual debate. It is next to the distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3770	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The government has had a very demanding task, as has already been pointed out many times today, on the one hand to establish a fiscal balance and in general put fiscal policy within real opportunities and, on the other hand, open space and create conditions for economic recovery, and above all through the investment cycle and improve business conditions. The decline in investment over the past three years has been more than 30%, which clearly points to the necessity of a complete change in the current economic policy direction. Without a strong momentum of the economy, no positive change can be expected as soon as possible. The Ministry of Economy programme is a comprehensive plan for a rapid and effective recovery of the economy, with a whole series of measures to increase competitiveness as the basic problem of the Croatian economy and cancer-earth Croatian economy, which has already been said several times today, a systematic approach to attracting and encouraging investment, effective use of pre-accession aid and structural instruments of EU cohesion policy. But what I would point out as particularly positive are measures that directly help increase the competitiveness of the processing industry, i.e. concrete measures to help the textile industry. In fact, the textile industry, which is mostly concentrated in the northwestern part of Croatia so far, may have been systematically ignored by the last government for this reason. The textile industry, just to remind, is third in the number of employees in the processing industry, and second, if the leather industry is included, which is also located mainly in northwestern Croatia and have the same problem. It is important here to say that it is a sector which is in the first 6 exporters, and we know what Croatian economy means today of exports and exporters. However, no single useful measure has been taken to help the textile industry, to help a Vartex of Vartex with more than 2,300 employees or a once-in-a-lifetime MTC, which unfortunately went bankrupt. This government has finally recognised this particular problem and has just recognised that this type of industry needs emergency assistance, and this is because of the preservation of exports, but also primarily because of the preservation of jobs. The intervention measures, such as the Ministry of Economy and Government's programme, encourage activities with a positive net export effect, provide significant support for the preservation of export employment and the development and strengthening of competitiveness. This will provide these industries with liquid liquidity and stabilisation and continued business. This measure, according to the Ministry of Economy's assessment, will cover 82% of those sectors, i.e. create conditions for the preservation of over 22,000 jobs. But here is to not only turn out that we here on the side of the position are very excited by this budget I will also make a proposal that I hope the government will at the most recent time and adopt, and that is to help the textile industry and through the cost-saving of the textile industry, through a reduction of contributions. According to the initiative to preserve and ensure sustainable development of the textile and leather industry of the Ministry of Economy, the total amount to increase the competitiveness of those sectors and, through a reduction of contributions, would be EUR 258 million, and if the wood and furniture sectors were included, this would be €646 million. However, the allocation of these funds on the expenditure side of the budget would also avoid direct costs, in particular unemployment benefits at the employment office, the expected permanent loss of contributions and employee salary taxes, as well as indirect costs of an indirect reduction in the personal consumption of a person who is unemployed and the cost of co-financing of re-employment of the unemployed. I would certainly like to mention here that mostly women are employed in the textile, leather, and mostly in the wood industry. In the textile industry, this is a concrete 85%, mainly a low-professional workforce and a high average of over 45 years, which, after losing work, shows all employment services statistics no longer find jobs or stays in the employment office until retirement. Given that over 10 000 jobs have been lost in the past five years due to the crisis, but also because of the failure to take any measures to save these economic branches right here, the HNS welcomes the proposed measures, however, we insist that the entire package of these measures be implemented and the whole package of aid to the textile, leather and wood industry. The second extremely important move of the Ministry of Economy is certainly the promotion of a public-private partnership programme and finally the introduction of this model of construction and reconstruction of existing facilities throughout Croatia. It is a model that was launched in 2006 by the HNS in Varazdin County and based on which 33 buildings were built and renovated in just two years. Refurbished schools and sports halls were also built throughout the county, which enabled single-minded teaching throughout the Varazdin County. Varazdin County is the only one that conducts one-way teaching throughout Croatia. In the construction and restoration of schools as a priority, this model of the Varazdin County has also been applied to other facilities, which is also an example of how both theatres and museums and other important facilities can be restored through this model, i.e. through the application of the public-private partnership model, the capacity of construction can be significantly increased compared to the construction of the state-funded budget, i.e. from the budget of the units of local administration and self-government. The public-private partnership model will also give strong momentum to fallen construction companies and stop them from further decaying and firing workers. Of course, in this process of construction and reconstruction along with the construction sector, a whole series of other industries are linked, and in particular a highly endangered wood industry. The largest benefit of implementing this model will be the local administration and self-government units. And the third thing we especially welcome in HNS is the introduction of free transportation for high school students. It is something also HNS introduced in Varazdin County in 2005. By paying travel costs to high school students, a whole series of very positive effects are achieved. Specific indicators in Varazdin County have significantly raised enrolment in high school. From the farthest corners, it's up to 30%. 15% of students in Varazdin County signed up from other counties and a different structure of enrolment, as the higher number of high school students is being enrolled, in fact, for four years of schooling, not for three-year-olds, which allows them to enroll later and enrol in colleges. With this program and the number of high school students enrolled, we increased by 23%, well above the national average. But what may be most important to say is that this is one direct aid to families, especially socially threatened families, since this leaves a significant amount of money in the home budget. In spite of the small budget of both the county and the units of local administration and self-government all these years, the Varazdin County has financed the carriage of students itself since 2005, although the state did not want to do so and recognised the exceptional importance and importance of education. The past government, as I mentioned, did not fully recognise the importance of paying for this transport and did not understand that bus tickets of 800, 1000, 1300 kuna meant that some parents would really not be able to enroll their children in high school. Here's maybe just for order size. The average salary in Varazdin County is 3500 kuna, and the bus ticket means 700, 800, 1000, and even up to 1400 kuna. So, when you have two high school kids or when you have a situation that you only have one reception in the family, it really puts parents on the burden of deciding that a child can't get into high school what I think of a country that enters the European Union next year absolutely inadmissible. This government recognised the importance of the HNS education policy implemented in Varazdin County and decided to enable its children in Croatia to acquire secondary education. Given all the very concrete positive measures that will bring about an improvement in the overall situation in Croatia this economic programme and this budget should be fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3771	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3772	Thank you very much. So what I wanted to draw your attention to is that you said incorrectly, is that the state didn't try and want to help or in that sense... Here's a little personal experience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first thing you need to know is that Vartex is a private company. This means that in 2006, according to all these regulations on Vartex support, a restructuring programme with state support was approved, and that also means that there is no restructuring programme for Vartex for the next 10 years. After three years, Vartex returns with a request for help through the restructuring program and here he is at AZTM's grade. Meanwhile, in the whole process, many of the proposals made to the owners and the Vartex administration came across the answer we cannot. The process of restructuring private companies and state interference is subject to rules, strict and requirements and their maximum engagement So as the ruling majority, you will see for yourself how this works and how effective this process looks and how effective it is. [[Intruder Stazić: My colleague Dalic, I think you have corrected the incorrect quote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3773	Thank you. Here's before we continue the individual debate another notice. The meeting of the Economic Committee was scheduled for 12.00 hours tomorrow, and will be held at 9.30 in the same hall where Stjepana Radic was scheduled. So, the Committee on Economy tomorrow instead of 12:00 p.m. at 9:00 p.m. and 30 minutes. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3774	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has been said today. I will give this opportunity here an emphasis on those things that are most important for this budget and for our citizens. This country must make changes. And on December 4th, in the parliamentary elections, citizens made that clear. The changes introduced by this budget will be for the benefit of all our citizens, not for the benefit of certain elites, as has now been the case, but for all people who work fairly and live from their work. It stops with great waste and ends with a policy of throwing money into the wind. Unfortunately, money was spent unwarranted on certain properties, so you don't even know what they're serving today, a bunch of overtime, and everything on the back of our citizens. Since this government has not been determined to spend the budget has been reduced. It is driven by the economy because the development of the economy will lead to new jobs, stable wages and satisfied citizens. This government also introduces a policy to spend as much as is earned, to spend effectively and rationally. The cutting that will be will be in the function of developing and preserving jobs. The economy will be relieved among other things and the removal of parafiscal charges such as forest fees, monumental rents, reductions in the overall health contribution rate from 15% to 13% of what entrepreneurs and craftsmen welcome. The taxation system is significantly changing and this will very much help small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts. It's the laws we discussed last week and passed by the Tax on Profit, Tax on Income, etc. He's going to introduce order, and he's going to relieve the entrepreneurs. And there's order to be introduced, and that's fair, because it's not right that one firm that has five employees has seven official cars that drive moms, grandparents, and I don't know who needs it. Yes, VAT increases, but it also decreases to 10% for children's food, oil, sugar, drinking water, which is of great importance to citizens for everyday life. The intention of this budget is to make the economy competitive, and that is necessary for our country. This budget is aimed at protecting the poor, creating new jobs and protecting socially endangered categories. The economy must be based on knowledge and experience and it is a win-win combination. That is why we have a lot of measures to encourage small and medium entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, to encourage entrepreneurship of women, young people, traditional crafts, but also to invest in knowledge and education, qualifications, retraining, professional training of adults as well as how it can help them in these new times still manage. Whether or not they are built, elementary schools are built, so they are invested in dormitories, so here they are finally going to start a dormitory in Bjelovar, which is why I am personally and my fellow citizens are pleased. And the question is, can you keep asking that, can you, can you, because it's going to be saved on some items where it was expendable, and we already have some savings in the ministries. You can't live on a loan, it's time to re-raise ourselves, and in this way to be a role model for citizens, and in order to work, to create new jobs, we need to have a developed economy, and to that end, this budget is going to be supported anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3775	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Petar Čobanković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. So let me correct the incorrect allegations that you said at the very end, you said we have savings in ministries, we have savings in other institutions, we have a proposal to save dear friends, and if we're going to have savings to see that at the end of 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3777	Next in line for a ten-minute debate, distinguished colleague Valter Boljunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the first thing I'd like to point out right now is that I'm supporting this draft budget. This draft budget I will not enter into certain items, but it actually comes as a succession of these laws on different taxes that were previous days. The objective of this budget is very clear, with different income tax cuts or even by abolishing the reinvestment of profits, taxes on reinvested profits and... Taxing dividends is an obvious objective, and this is that it wants to give the economy a break, that it wants to make the economy competitive in the competition. [[You don't understand.]] On the other hand, in order for the budget to be stable, it is necessary to increase the revenue side by increasing the VAT from 23% to 25%. It can be said, in fact, that with this budget, the habits of spending are somehow being controlled and the economy that has suffered different burdens comes up with more money that can be invested in investments. So as for us at the Faculty of Economics, certain macroeconomic analyses have been made with these parameters... in the office of economic research, and it may seem strange but we'll probably be one of the few who say that except for these elements that are given is very important and... [[You don't understand.]] how it will be performed but that, with the control of all the parameters that enter at the end, it may be that VAT will increase by more than 1%. [[You don't understand.]] What needs to be mentioned in this budget is, above all, some requirements for greater savings and some dragon savings of 9 or 10 billion are a safe path to the collapse of the economy and economy. That is, of course, what the biggest economic Nobel laureates say today in their reviews of Dotric and Krugman, who say that too much savings, so the dragon savings cannot be recovered on the economy. On the other hand, we believe that VAT would have to be smaller to encourage spending, but in our non-competitive economy, VAT reduction would mean actually reducing imports and we would encourage the economy, but not our own, but someone who would come through imports. So I think... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3779	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3780	So we still have about VAT when it's said that there's going to be an increase from... After all, we also have a few situations that must be considered. [[You don't understand.]] First of all, it was going to increase the threshold to 230 thousand for entering VAT, to extend the time of payment of VAT, which was one of the biggest pains of the previous one, was the mass of the businessmen who had achieved the job, they had to pay VAT, but they were also unable to collect claims from the state. I think there's a Minister Linic who's shown it for the past two years, by 2003, who could have done it to reduce indifference. And also, as far as drawn developments are concerned, which I think may be more than 1% in danger, it is potentially two things, the first thing for excessive savings that can be said to reflect on weaker investments and countries, especially in energy infrastructure, which will then really cause a reduction in economic activity, and the second part concerns public sector workers. In any case, you should see what work it is, whether through a work contract, authorically or where such work is done by someone who already has a secure job, but should therefore not rush the dismissal of workers on whose sole job it is. If it is especially about young people, we are in danger that before the economy of the track, it will still take a year for them to accept these workers, if they come to the office, therefore they are created on the one hand by the burden of the institution, meaning our public finances to pay for unemployment, and the question of whether people will ask you for a job further in Croatia or after the education that was paid... Public money to go out. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, I believe that this budget should be cautious as regards the layoff of workers at a certain time who are the only source, but also with trade unions, an agreement should be reached on the reduction of certain rights from collective agreements that were important when the economy was booming, because any increase in prices of a few percent to automatically raise wages will not lead to anything. So there are a lot of elements that can reduce labour costs and pressure on the state. And the other thing, in any case, is to attract investment or even state, so that the situation you're looking at might be 3% or so, which in some way gives you conditions to enter the euro area, I don't think you should observe it that way. The deficit may be higher, because the question of the deficit is not whether it is 3 or 6%, the question of the deficit is whether you used the money you received by borrowing to patch up some of the benefits that were such that it wasn't necessary, or whether you used that money to build infrastructure. In this way, I believe that these two things cannot therefore be enslaved to the deficit, but to go with the investments. What is also important is budgets that may not have been talked about, these are budgets for 2013 and beyond, one of the elemental settings is decentralisation. It is clear to me that it was not possible to introduce it in a short time, but the important thing is that in the next budgets, already in 2012 and for 2013 there are still to see elements of decentralisation which, within one three years of 5% of each year, will, therefore, come from the current budgets at least one 20% of the money that will return to the local community. Of course, it is not only a matter of fiscal money orientation, it is primarily a question of certain legal decisions, i.e. the rights and duties that the local community has. But in any case, it is now time to start working on the proposals for the 2013 and 14 budget with the decentralisation of funds to the local community. Here's the end. So I don't owe after this, I'm not gonna mention it one more time. If this budget, therefore, does not only matter the elements of the budget, but is important time-ing in which way they will align, so if people do not happen to come to the labour market before... And the economy gets, it's capable of attracting people to the labour market. [[You don't understand.]] If foreign investment is attracted but the state's investments are particularly in energy infrastructure, I think in that case, I say GDP growth could be over 1% this year. What's also important is that this budget represents one turn, and in 2013 and beyond, I say, and now we should start working should represent one way that the government is going to introduce, and there are a lot of elements from some controlled inflation to 9% and others that would give even more momentum to the domestic economy. Once again I say, I support the budget. I think he's pretty important not in his numerical amounts and we, each of us can find something on each item that he thinks is important but then the budget should be higher by 30 billion, but it's essential that the basic idea is to disburse the economy and start with investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3781	Thank you, colleague Boluncic. The next is the honourable representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of this debate, a lot is said that this budget cuts Slavonia's region from which I come. And that is why I think it is important to say a few words about this, that is, that is, that is, that it is not exactly the case and that, first of all, colleagues from the HDZB took only this negative side of the budget when they discussed it. Let me elaborate on what I'm talking about. So, as regards assistance within the budget for 5 Slavonian counties and some local self-government units in Slavonia, there is a significant increase in the funds they receive from the state budget. First of all, it's the City of Osijek, which in the last year won nothing, and now it gets 762 thousand kuna, which is therefore an increase of 762%. This is Požeško-Slavon County which funds from the budget increased 38%, Brod-Posaviska by 13%, Virovitsk-Podravska by 17%, etc. Also, as regards the rehabilitation of Osijek fort, when we talk about cultural projects, that is, cultural projects in Slavonia with the million that it received last year in this year should receive a million and 300 thousand, so a 30% increase. I believe that everyone who visited Osijek will agree with me that one baroque pearl such as Osijek Fortress deserves it. Also, the Croatian Mine Action Centre of last year's 234 million is getting 244 million, which I believe is extremely important because very large areas are still under mines in Slavonia and that this is a problem to work on to start the economy of Slavonia. It is very important, and we all appreciate that young people are an extremely important segment of our society, including in the economic movement. And for this reason, I am grateful that the government has recognised certain projects related to young people that raise their competitiveness in the labour market and encourage them, or train them to exist on that market. It is primarily a project of young people in entrepreneurship in which 0 kunas were allocated last year and 3 million kunas this year. The Youth in Action programme, which also rose from zero to nearly 6 million kuna, and to encourage the development of broadband Internet access because we know that today access to information is extremely important, especially in a zero kuna economy that has come to an item of millions and 300 thousand kuna. Further items that I keep extremely positive are those in school and science. In fact, this budget is smaller, but I believe that the funds are much smarter located than in the last budgets. It's primarily the prevention of school violence. And on the Committee of Resort, we have touched the alarming situations of youth violence and I believe that it is extremely important to take this seriously through the already existing institutional infrastructure, so through education. So the prevention of violence in schools funds for this item were raised by 339% from the budget. The prevention of sports violence in schools has increased by 114%. Encouraging a program of work with gifted students and students, which is also an extremely important resource, has increased by 33%. Professional training and education of teachers and teachers for the implementation of national programmes, if we also keep in mind the project of national graduations, etc. is also extremely important and increased by 10%. Furthermore, only improving the quality of the education system has increased from 0 kuna item to 950 million kuna, pardon thousands of kuna. So they're all qualitative shifts that aren't just declarative, they're all giving out significant assets in this direction. Also, Croatia's university sports alliance with 400 thousand kuna this year will receive a million and 60 thousand kuna. Therefore, encouraging healthy life, preventing violence and preventing risky behaviour towards young people who are moving through and through the already existing institutions of the state. Projects for life-long learning that have been participated in the past budget with 0 kuna in this budget will be represented with nearly 25 million. In light of the fact that we will soon become members of the European Union, this is extremely important because our citizens, so whether they are currently in the system of education or those who have long since come out of it, will be found on the European labour market, and the European Union and, in addition, all processes on the labour market require simple lifelong learning, since the technology of any profession is so radically changing that it is necessary to permanently educate itself in its profession. I therefore assess this item with an exceptional score, which will certainly contribute to the quality of education. Generally speaking, science and technological development in this budget have an increase of almost 8%. If we consider that science, technology, or innovation and the generator of economic growth, this is an extremely important data. What I would like to point out in the end, and with this I would like to conclude my debate is a few items that I also hold extremely important, which is the development of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia, because volunteering is also one way to not only young people, but in general people who are retired are encouraged to actively participate in social life and creatively and constructively contribute to society. So this item of the budget increased by 30% this year. So again, these are not negligible budgetary resources. And why the violence in the family, which with a symbolic thousand kuna in the last budget, has increased to 300 thousand kunas, is very important, because unfortunately we are facing situations where domestic violence is no longer an exception but an almost rule. So this is an item that I think is extremely positive. My colleagues before me were still discussing many segments of the budget for which I could say and invite my colleagues to support it. First of all, we start here from the health care we've been talking about and I'm very glad the minister keeps his promise and health care is subject to the dominant items of prevention. One kuna spent on prevention is five saved kunas later in the recovery of poor health. So these are all items of the budget that only mean some of which would have asked his colleagues to support the budget. I will certainly support it because I keep it real, sustainable and through segments that I have just cited, so the allocation of the funds has been carried out very responsibly and in the guidelines set out in plan 21. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3783	We've reported two corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3784	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. My dear colleague said a lot, but he said something that doesn't stand, and I have to fix it. He said that financial resources are related to Slavonia where it comes from that they are bigger than they were in some previous years. Unfortunately, this finding cannot in itself be accurate if we start from significantly reduced support in agriculture where we know that a cluster of support or most of the support comes to the space of Slavonia on the one hand. And on the other hand, I can now list a few projects in a hurry from Slavonia that are significantly underrated this year. Like what? to start with the irrigation of the Baj-bosut field last year was 42 million kuna this year in the budget envisioned 8 million. The Eastern Slavonia regional waterworks that are very important because Slavonia lies on the water but unfortunately a good part of Slavonia drinks unquality water. ... Here it is only in the context of that quote. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3785	The second correction to the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm also going to correct an esteemed colleague where he claimed that Slavonia got a lot more than it was in the last budget and in the last government, it's absolutely incorrect since we're only going to compare one fact. The increase in the aid items of the General State in the Virovitica-Podravska County of 17% more than or million kunas per 39 million abolished necessary for the development of agriculture and agricultural achievements 39 million and a million 400 cannot be measured in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3787	Thank you very much. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the whole day we've been discussing a budget for which some have really shown great enthusiasm and even called it a historical event. To me, this budget is neither such enthusiasm nor historic event. The only goal this budget has and the minister himself said in the introduction was to reduce the deficit at any price, and even if even some of the costs here in the budget do not exist. They're not visible. The budget is down by 3.4 billion kuna, but you know who's the most in this area? It's those segments of society most affected by our citizens, which are education and health care. As I've been following school for years, I'm going to show all those colleagues who said it was a little bit 2.7% less for education than last year, it's not much, it's going to make up for it. Most of all, education workers, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, for example, suffered again. There is no plan in these items that belongs to them according to the collective contract, which is Christmases and regressions. I only ask one question because I've lived through it. Will education happen in 2003 that he remained in debt of cca 1.3 billion kuna and when teachers, after numerous negotiations together with the unions, dropped out of a lot of lawsuits, and I must tell you that there were some 40,000 settlements in this system related to outstanding debts, saving 530 million kunas. Imagine how much school could have been built for this debt in just three years for not respecting collective agreements. Although we are aware of the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia but we are also aware that we need to save. But we stand for education and science as the key to the development of every society. We are also aware for years whether we are in a position or in opposition that teachers are underrated, that investment in education is not a cost, that quality education costs. We can't ignore that at least a little, but back in the last 5.6 years, the education budget increased, that there were positive changes in education. I'm not going to quote my colleagues who are now in position and they were opposition, and I could do that when the budget went up, and at least 2% or 3% in some years then they were crying below the level of average school salaries and higher education, and now it's normal that the salaries don't go up so that they don't provide funds for those fees that were agreed under the collective contract. I just want to remind you that we have all advocated the continuation of education and education reforms for access to the basic national framework curricula, which is necessary to accelerate this we all know activities at all levels from pre-school education to secondary education. We've also advocated something else, to improve school conditions, we've adopted a pedagogical standard that we know we can't apply immediately. It also has its own application term, which obliges us to raise the standard of educational institutions, and in the proposal for this budget, we reduce the decentralised funds for cca of 360 million kuna. Does that mean reducing the standards and minimum working conditions? Because after this budget is adopted and adopted, the Government will also have to make a decision on the financing of minimum working conditions in schools, in health care, in social care and in the fire department. What does that mean if the government says it has to reduce decentralised funds. So this means just saving on cleaning material, on ongoing school maintenance, on heating, on electricity, because precisely from these decentralised funds that regular school activity is funded and assisted by units of local self-government or regional self-government to equalise school conditions. We're increasing the VAT by 2%, so it's going to add up, so we're really going to have to save maximum in schools. A colleague who spoke before me asked me to explain some items. I must indeed say that some of the items that are in the programme or in the plan of this and in the budget are increased in education, which are primarily items of prevention of violence in schools, prevention of violence by sport. I welcome, I very much welcome the training of teachers. But when you look at this budget a little bit better then you will see that the item of extracurricular activity that is a very important segment in education and education in the work of a school is a reduction of even 2 million kuna. All of these preventions, all of these activities that are carried out in schools, they certainly find a place right in extracurricular activities, so it turns out to you like spilling from hollow to empty what the people say. The seemingly increased items, on the other hand very similar items in the budget are reduced by 2 million kuna. Also, this year for a sports programme that is conducted during summer and winter holidays called "Open School" nothing is foreseen. On this programme is zero kuna, which is precisely a program that wants to help equalize children from large cities such as Zagreb, large centres that children in smaller schools have an opportunity to play sports and some activities during winter and summer holidays. It was a small aid to the local community who, through a public-needs programme, is very much unique for these purposes, but important to encourage them precisely in this programme. Here and finally, I'm sorry that there's no colleague from the HNS, but there's something else I need to determine in this state budget relating to education. I haven't found the item anywhere free textbooks and the transportation of high school students in this budget, at this point. And let's remember that just free schooling, free education was one of the main programmes of the Kukuriku Coalition and Plan 21. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3789	Thank you very much. One replica, representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3790	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. With all these problems that you have mentioned here, and the finance minister is here, which I highly respect and its tenacity I appreciate, so I would ask about the help of the economy and the zero rate of reinvested profits, given what Commissioner Roksandic said. Whether or not a firm invests or reinvests its profits and buys shares of the INA whether it will be taxed and whether a zero tax rate is worth it or not. I think there's going to be some illogicalness or a lot of open questions in that segment. Or a dividend tax that we're introducing from 12%. What about those foreign investors, potential foreign investors who will not have such taxes because of the bilateral agreement, are we creating them more competitive than our domestic investors. And finally, there's been a lot of talk here today about Slavonia and investment in Slavonia. Lika-Senj County has been wiped out of its budget. Don't let it happen to us in 2000 when in four years the prime minister of the then Croatian government did not set foot in the area of Lika-Senj County. I would like to see you in Lika-Senj County because you have scissors, you and the first vice president of the Croatian government. If you need for Lika-Senj County I will be a little less critical of this budget but have a little understanding for Lika-Senj County...... /Buka in Hall./... And for Lika-Senj County, with respect for all the difficulties you face and all the difficulties or times, under which circumstances you bring this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3791	And the last reported individual debate in line with the agreement of the clubs will be a respected colleague, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3792	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, sugar at the end. Today, in a few times here, it has been pointed out that it is about the adoption of the most important document, and I was hoping that this is really the case. And then the president of SDP's Club of Representatives comes to convince us that it might not be bad for us to give up the debate, so if he hadn't told us and watch the people anyway we won't respect you, which is nothing to say at all, what to wear out, and you and we, there's no point, cameras don't record, there's no press, there's no need. Prior to that, the entire play of the SDPs and coalition representatives were hired that Mr. Linic, and you can freely pass it on to Mr. Prime Minister, I heard you perfectly and understood you well. It didn't take 50 people to translate it for us. What you've said has been found appropriate to at least 50 people to explain to us what you're going to say. You were perfectly clear, and you shouldn't have. That is why I do not find it strange when in Croatia today someone mentions politicians and then usually makes comparisons with the oldest interest in the world. What I wanted to report for and why I insisted that I address the situation on the Croatian railways, or definitely cutting funds. The Deputy Minister of Transport stressed that this outline of the situation on the railways is a transfiguration of the state so it is obvious that the state in the country is really bottom down. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Lucin. He stressed on that same board that the railways are only coming for wages anyway, nothing else they're doing, and since it's a reflection of the state's situation, it turns out that we have such citizens, which is exactly what I believe isn't. As for investments on the Croatian railways. If we ignore the European funds that are for construction, that is, designing certain railways, what is important is what is for maintenance. In order to maintain the funds, they are significantly cut off. Travellers' funds, you're as good as the president, the former chairman of the Supervisory Board, you know very well the problems on the railroad. And after all, I remember some meetings. I assume you don't remember me from those times. But among other things, 76 road crossings in the last month have been declared by the railway security agency untrustworthy. How many of those who are unsecured from before may one human life go away, you haven't even separated the kuna for it. A device that provides security at Zagreb's Main Station was installed, built in '38. A year. On certain stripes you have tracks and colossal accessories that are 80 years old. Some of your tracks are already closed. Go home, gentlemen, from the ruling coalition, and explain that you raise your hand to make sure that your colleagues in Daruvar, in Lipik, in Pakrac, we were there together, not to pass on to you, but that's the fact that there's no railroad and it's not going to be on this, because there's just no means to do that. We're talking about a project of a new railroad, a straight line for Rijeka. Well, I'm up for it, but the same thing you told your HDZ colleagues. The sand bridge is the right thing to do, but when there's money, when there's money. This is O.K. Part of the money will go, it will come from European funds, most of it is known. However, from January 10th to January 24th, three 80,000-ton ships sailed you into the port of Bakar. At one point we only had one correct locomotive. You know what that means. Now we've got two more ships coming in. We don't have any locomotives. They're all on passenger trains, and 220 trains have been canceled in the last few days. There's nothing to drive with. The locomotives are old, electric trains for 40 years are even old. Travelling fleet for 30 years. Do you think anyone today will tomorrow any of the operators we seem to have already crossed these addictive societies. Do you think someone will buy HZ-Cargo or HZ travellers, that someone will be interested? Foreigners don't need that. Operator passes through Croatia, important to secure his route. He doesn't need anything else. These low-tariff cargoes, possibly from Siraæ, stone to lead to Lekenik to build the highway, will not be interesting to anyone. No matter how interesting the transport from Petrokemia to Sibenik will be to foreigners. And we're not gonna have anything to do with anything. Local and regional railways can be easily forgotten by a budget like this. There's another detail that's not part of the budget, but it's very important to me. The Railway Regulatory Agency has leased a 120% lease for this year compared to last year. Who can handle that? And besides, another 50% charge for energy consumption. Well, that's knowingly destroying both operators so that they don't know how well restructured anything to make they can't survive that way. And otherwise only Mr. Vice President, I apologize for simply reminding you of the Rules of Procedure that it has been more than 30 days since the 18th and that the first Deputy Prime Minister has not answered the question concerning Sisak and the collapse of Sisak. He pointed out pompously that on the 31st year of his life he sacrificed himself that he had gone to Sisak to calm his passion. I asked him if it might have been just to calm his passions before the referendum on the European Union. Then I was convinced, so there is no way, so Sisak is important to us, so it's a Calvary, a tragedy, so my people, do you think we are insensitive? Well, frankly, we're thinking, at least me personally, and trust me, half of Sishken if not all of these here might be in the ruling part maybe not. Thank you very much, and I apologize if I was.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3793	Thank you very much. Here's before I say one more word to the Minister of Finance. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget will hold a session tomorrow at 10:30, not 8:30, as announced in the hall of Ban Josip Jelačić. And now I give my closing statement to Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3794	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I want to thank everyone for participating in the debate and perhaps what is important to highlight, perhaps give some answers. We do not have to agree to what it means to change in tax policies and how much it means to be part of these reliefs that we want to give to the economy in order to make it more competitive whether or not it will give effect. It is something that must show time in which we will see that the battle to reduce the burden on the economy is what our job is if we want this economy to produce and that these products can be placed. We have one big relief in that part, and that is enough to be competitive on the Croatian market because our imports are so large that it is important that we can be competitive on the name of transport costs and knowledge of the domestic market. And if we significantly reduce imports we will increase production in Croatia, we will slowly be able to return some of the workers from the real sector who have lost their jobs. Therefore, reducing expenditure must be a general policy, reducing expenditure when talking about the state, it is simply a minor tax charge. And it is evident that this year and in part of the tax policy there will be years of reform, important changes, reforms that will also go towards the philosophy of funding units of local self-government, reform of local self-government, and in that second part of the reduction of non-taxable income and putting these non-taxable incomes or moving them off the burden of the economy. It's one part of our policy, of course I won't even talk about the other, which is how to reduce administrative barriers to make the economy more efficient, so that investments are faster and more tempting for any investor, that's the other part. Therefore, this is why changes in tax policy are not on the income side, are not on the income side, and we expect the economy to know that. That's why, without any compassion, we decided to go to tax dividends, and we estimate that all those who withdraw funds from the economy, we simply tax them. Yeah, we also recognize double taxation laws as well, where we were weaker negotiators, we simply won't be able to impose our taxes,... It is simply someone who resorts to taxes and tax breaks offered by the Double Taxation Act, but it is not because this government feels that they should not be affected, but because we were negotiators from earlier times. [[You don't understand.]] Also, any behaviour of non-business economies is meant to be burdened, and to use every provision of a European directive that will require discipline in both economic behaviour and I would say investment. As for implementing acts and part of the reinvested profit, we will indeed seek to be very clear, unequivocal, that there is no real doubt whether the investment in the new company and the creation of jobs is a reinvested profit or the purchase of dividends, I apologize to the share on the capital market whether it is or not. Therefore, in that part there will be very clear legal provisions laid down to the regulations and we will be able to discuss it. Maybe one answer about the church, whether or not the church has been reduced or whether a discussion about the Vatican contract will be opened. Obligations for a church based on Vatican contracts for this year are about 308 million kuna. Since the achievement was about 250 million in last year by agreement between the former government and the church, that is why we went with a reduced amount in this year which means when we look at somewhere more than 17% less than the contractual obligations, believing that we would reach that agreement with representatives of the Croatian Church last year, I would say resulting from the government's agreement and this. If indeed the Government considers it necessary and more important to change the Vatican agreements then we will really open the topic during this year, because it is evident that the battle for smaller deficits in 2013 and 2014 will mean further talks on how to get support for all those with the Croatian state having any kind of contract, regardless of whether it is a social contract, whether it is an interstate contract in that part. So I also estimate that we went to that part of the contractual obligations with a smaller amount than I would have said, far less than we normally cut the other expenditures. Maybe two words about Croatian railways. We can discuss this however we want to talk, but Croatian railways are a system that the government has not completed for 10 years the restructuring process. When we talk about the restructuring processes, this means that the work of the railways is neither hospitality nor the preservation of green areas, nor the washing of cars, nor the sale of tickets, and that I do not list what we still have in the structure of the Croatian Railways. That the losses by these non-essential activities are so great that they charge simply the total balances of Croatian railways. And what is the most basic support that should come into the budget is shared and paid for in these related societies. Therefore, rather significant amounts secured in the Croatian railway budget were not spent on maintaining the infrastructure, were not spent on investments either, and therefore the situation on the railway infrastructure was as explained by the colleague. Why? Because the money that's always been provided in the budget was spent on purpose, spent on payment. And the answer is the restructuring will be carried out this year, all lost time will be compensated, and no kuna wages will go on for the railways anymore, except for the infrastructure which is the obligation of the Croatian budget, no kuna for the salary. We must understand that companies do not have the right to pay in the state budget, they do not have the right, they have to earn their incomes, that is, those who work in freight and who work in passenger transport. They don't get paid. And that's right, which means that if they're not co-financed by the state or the local self-government, they're going to close, because there's no pay, on the subsidisation of individual lines that, on the pay no, and these are differences in our behaviour, because then I'm asking you the Osijek Airport 5 months didn't split the salary, 5 months, the Osijek Airport in the last 5 months didn't seem to have any aircraft, no cargo or passenger, if we're going to put those salaries into the budget. ... Are we going to change our behavior? [[You don't understand.]] These are companies that have their own administrations, their supervisory boards and that have to understand that wages should have both a product and a service, because if we're going to raise awareness and people employed in companies on people we're going to pay out of the state budget, then we're going to have deficits. Then we'll have to explain why we have 15 billion deficits, why we had 14 billion a year ago. These are the behaviors that must change this year. That's why there are no secure pay subsidies in the Croatian Railways. The administration will have to do its part of the job, and the money to be paid from the budget will indeed go for the infrastructure and repair of what needs to be done. Really. Because responsibility for this condition is unacceptable. And these are the answers to Electroprived, not that we have a HEP transmission that refuses to receive one kilowatt of produced electricity. He doesn't want to take any kilowatts of electricity. Why? Because its infrastructure is incompetent, there is no such potential and basically all private investments in wind power plants, solar systems stand because there is no positive response from HEP transmission. Yes, this situation in public companies that we consider to be important needs to be changed. So, the talks on these reforms are still following us and then we're going to get slowly I would say that text part with a budget that we may be missing at this point to see what all public sector reforms are. Therefore, thank you for the warnings and I agree with the warnings of many MPs who have said that the risk figures are on individual expenditure items. What we say is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed the Ministry of Finance to control every item on the dissipating side. And we will have responsibility for the achievement. And that means, if the envisaged moves designed by this budget are not enough, then simply further activities will be carried out to control and respect the numbers as they are here. This is something that will simply mean new activities, new obligations for both the government and the competent ministries. Therefore, the government did not refer this proposal without certain control mechanisms. We will really use them because we care that we simply stick to these numbers by the end of the year and achieve these numbers because that is the only way we can trust both our citizens and our creditors. And what is important then will also slowly send positive messages to all investors who can start serious investments today because they will realize that the state will no longer burden them with its consumption. So, thanks again for the debate, thanks for the heads-up. It's just... We will be responsible and we will take them seriously and I would say correct our behaviour regarding all your discussions. [[You don't understand.]] As far as the amendments are concerned, here we will try to consider them and, as the Prime Minister said, we will probably have your answers to those amendments on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3795	Thank you, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3796	We move to a statement, many say about the most important document of a country in the course of one year, and this is the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. Proposals for financial plans for non-financial beneficiaries for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. (a) Croatian Waters (b) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund (c) Croatian Roads d) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (e) State Property Management Agency and a proposal for the State Budget and financial plans of extra-financial users for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014 – consolidated. The debate on the text of the draft budget is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline laid down by the Rules of Procedure and I, in accordance with Article 146. I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. If I have to, I'll do it again. Do you need it? ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's get involved and vote. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour, 40 against and 3 abstentions are that we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendment of the first Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal of the State budget. Here you are, Mr. Secretary Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3797	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Amendment 1 proposes a redistribution between operating expenditure and expenditure for the acquisition of non-financial assets amounting to 4 million kuna 185 thousand in 2012 as well as 385 thousand in respect of the 2013 and 2014 projections. A little bit of a broader explanation. At its meeting on 9 February 2012, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Regulation on the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights and that regulation is prescribed to finance the Office from activities under the division of the Government of the Republic of Croatia following the adoption of the State budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3798	I'm opening a debate. Only representatives of committee clubs have the right to participate in this debate under the Rules of Procedure. Do any of the representatives of the club representatives appear on this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia? No, I don't. Then I'm closing the argument. We'll make a statement by hand. I am voting on the first amendment of the government that is now in question. Who's up for the amendment? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour, 6 against and 42 abstentions, have adopted the first amendment of the government and become an integral part of the proposal for the State budget. I would like Mr Linic's representative to explain Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3799	With this amendment, we propose a distribution in this way to increase staff expenditures by 7 million 167 thousand 565 kuna, material expenditures 8 million 024 thousand and 435, financial expenditures million 923 thousand, aided by foreign and internal money budgets 60 million 200 thousand, expenditures for the purchase of non-productive long-term assets 100 thousand, expenditures for the purchase of long-term assets produced 4 million 85, while reducing other expenditures of 81,500 million kuna. A broader explanation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on the formation and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State Administration with the Final Proposal of the Law redefines the jurisdiction of the State Office for the Management of State Property and thus is defined as a coordinating body for the State Property Management System in relation to the central authorities of the State Administration and in relation to the Agency for the Management of State Property. As a result, funds are provided for the work of the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the EU by the Court of Justice on activities under the division of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the formation and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State administration established the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and established its part-time work. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is reduced by funds for the operation of funding of the rights and obligations, as well as by civil servants and subsistences found in transactions that pass over to the jurisdiction of the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports shall, in accordance with Article 142(3). The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools should provide funding for co-financing and equipment of school libraries with a mandatory booklet. Therefore, the addition of library buildings in which the last three years have not been invested is being re-scheduled. The redistribution of expenditure is also proposed to provide sufficient resources in the Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute. To provide funding for public and local transport for secondary school students, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports would increase expenditures by 70 million kuna. The same amount reduces the expenditure of the Ministry of Finance and this budget stock. This is necessary in order to ensure equal conditions for all pupils in secondary education until the first qualification is obtained. And that's a text explanation for the changes in these items.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3800	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I repeat again, only the representatives of the clubs have the right. Here you go. Mr. Representative on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3801	Just one technical question in accordance with the Budget Act. The budget supply treatment has something completely different from the expenditure. And I don't think the amendment that reduces the funds of the budget stock can be used to cover other expenditures, because the Budget Law clearly says that the budget stock serves over the year to cover unplanned, sudden and under-planned funds. And it is precisely prescribed to which level of funds with a budget supply may be available by the Minister of Finance without a decision from the Government, and to what extent the government must make a decision. Therefore, this amendment essentially does not change anything. You, at the moment you made a decision on the transport of students, could also make a decision at the government, given that not enough funds were planned in that position to pay those funds out of the current reserve. Therefore, this amendment first whether it is in accordance with the law, the second thing it does not technically change at all. You could have done this thing exactly identically at the time when decisions were made and rules for financing the carriage of students. I repeat, the Budget Law defines precisely why it serves the budget stock and, in accordance with that provision, you were able to use the funds from that position at the time when the Government made a decision on the transport of pupils. Therefore, no amendment has ever been adopted in this House that proposed that certain expenditures proposed by the government be financed by the funds of the current reserve. I repeat, the current reserve is defined by the law for insufficiently unplanned surprise expenditures and I don't think this is a good thing, and even with the fence, the question is also how consistent it is with the Budget Law and the Budget Law, because Mr. Minister, if you have proposed such an amendment, then you have to propose an amendment to the Law on the implementation of the state budget in which you have established that the current reserve is coming out... thousands of kunas. Since you did not do this, this amendment is not in accordance with the law because the Budgetary Act still says that the current reserve is 200 million kuna. Therefore, you bring documents that are not harmonised, and the law on the implementation of the state budget is a crown document limiting borrowing, limiting guarantees and clearly defining the amount of the current reserve. Without amending the Law on the implementation of the State budget, that amount cannot be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3802	Mr. Secretary, I suggest you move on because another representative on behalf of the club has come forward, so that you can react to everything then. Here you go, Agent Vinkovic, on behalf of your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3803	Thank you. The HDSB Club will support this amendment but will not support the budget since all other amendments have been rejected. However, I would like to say that the following is not to repeat the mistake that was made three years ago. We are looking for a detailed explanation of this amendment, whether it is a 100% funding of all high school students in the Republic of Croatia or whether that error will be repeated when Croatia has gone through knowledge and only one year will be financed, the first grade of high school, and the second, third, fourth grade will wait until they reach the order of charges. So we're looking for a detailed explanation. We are also looking for an explanation because we also believe that this is how one large item and the amounts that have so far been valid for the transport of pupils and primary but also secondary schools, according to the monthly maps that our bus carriers had, that the funds of reserves will not be enough for the government to pay for the transport of all secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia during the year, also with the fence of this section relating to the implementation of the budget is not intended for one such position. And I think it would be wiser to add an item to the budget, no matter what I do not expand the debate further, regardless of the so-called. savings in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Because if we have a deficit of $9.9 billion already planned, then I think it can be planned and 10.5 because nothing that matters is going to change, and we're going to be in debt to 21 billion new kunas anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3804	Thank you very much. No one's answering on behalf of the MPs' clubs anymore. Do you want ministers to be obvious? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3805	As regards the harmonisation of the budget and the enforcement law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also referred the amendment to the law on enforcement which reduced the current reserve so that the laws are harmonised in that part. It says that at this point in time of current cuts will be 118.5 million kuna and that it is a very small stock, which means that it is the job of all ministers not to impose any obligations on their work for reasons, because we know that it is a very small stock with which to intervene according to possible increased expenditures or sudden expenditures. We assessed that it was necessary to simply correct that part of the budget, given that we did not want to go in a way that increased the expenditure side. That is why the government has opted to reduce the current stock. Also, a very clear explanation when we observe certain requirements, the requirements are far greater than 70 million but it is obvious that before the Ministry of Education there are criteria and ways of agreeing with carriers on the insurance of transport costs and it is essential that the criteria and means of ensuring the means of transport will be clearly directed towards both carriers and carriers of the business. Because it is evident that our interest will also be used by more rail transport, and less bus services, and we know that there is much more to be organised and spent more rationally in that part. It is therefore a job for the Ministry of Education to draw up criteria and contracts for the transport of pupils in secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3806	Thank you very much. I can only give you my word if you lift a correction to an incorrect quote or a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I can't give you my word. ... That'll do it. That'll do it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. And then that's the third thing or the first thing, then that's the same thing as the third thing, so you can do it. So, taking a break on behalf of the HDZ Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3807	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am looking for a break for the HDZ club because the adoption of such an amendment as the Government proposes is a precedent, precedent that can have serious consequences and we want to consult. In fact, we, too, have submitted our amendments to the draft budget, but we know the provisions of the laws that prohibit it. Therefore, I ask you to consult so that we can continue to vote on the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3808	Thank you very much. Then I'll see you at 11 o'clock. Stanka. The president of the SDP club, Mr. Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3809	It's a club stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3810	All right. So the break is until 11 o'clock. Thank you. We're going back to work. I would ask Mrs., i.e. the representative of the HDZ Club, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, vice-president of the Croatian Parliament to declare the results of the HDZ Club meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3812	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here, I want to make one more point of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community's position on the amendment of the Government to which the 70 million kuna is being replaced from the budget reserve for the transport of students. Of course we support the idea of transporting students on the provision of funds for the transport of students, but I immediately remind you that speaking on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Club, we have made it very clear that budget revenues are overstretched by about a billion and a half kuna, but also expenditures are underrated by about a billion kuna. We also warned about the reduction of funds by around 350 million kuna in the Fund for the Alignment of Decentralised Functions. And just noted that this fund, i.e. those funds, are primarily used for education, health and fire at local level, which are those funds that should be combined in agreement with local administration and self-government and for the transport of students. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a precedent, precedent in the adoption of a state budget that at the last minute the Government decides to make an amendment to the budget reserve. Our calculations indicate that the budget reserve that was planned and could be far higher which the law would certainly allow. However, 200 million kunas are now being reduced to 118 million kunas, as the amendment to the Budgetary Law also states. I remind you that the budget reserve is something that must be kept as a special treasure. Mr. Minister noted that he would ask ministers to be caring during the year so that they would not reach into the budget reserve, thus reducing the amount of 118m kuna by the end of the year. I remind you that ministers and each ministry have their own budget, i.e. the budget of the ministry, so there is no need for regular activities to reach particularly frequently in the budget stock. As for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We believe that this budget is underrated, for example, on pay items. According to our estimates, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will be missing about 350 million, ladies and gentlemen, just for wages. Therefore, in any way, any ministry could be further treated with care, not to say what our resources are missing from. So this is precedent. This isn't good practice. I remind you that all those who have submitted amendments of course in consultation with professional services have always received an interpretation that the budget reserve cannot be reached by amendment. Therefore, the amendment of the MPs cannot reach into what is provided for special purposes. And finally, I remind you that the reserve must be kept, and then used for extraordinary occasions, I remind you that just as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Milanovic recently justified himself for the inactivity related to snow disasters and for the blockade of almost the entire country, because it has fallen a lot of snow to expect large floods, and precisely the budget reserve of ladies and gentlemen is used to repair the damages among others due to large floods. So I invite the prime minister to special care. And once again, I call upon the Government to withdraw this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3813	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan, president of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3814	Mr. President, it is without question the right for the government to propose a budget as well as an unquestionable possibility for it to intervene in that budget with its amendment. At this point, the situation is next, that the government has estimated that it has enough 118 million for the current reserve. And what's important at this point is that the funds for the free transportation of students are provided. If it's as precedent as you say, then we in the SDP will always be for precedents that benefit our children. So, something that hasn't happened so far to this amendment by the government is going back, which is the fact that our students will have free transportation. Unfortunately, you've abolished it. We're bringing him back. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3815	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3816	Mr. Dragovan's inaccuracy is that the government has estimated that 118 billion is sufficient liquid reserves, I apologize to 118 million kuna for the simple reason that, at the moment of the budget proposal, the government has set the current reserve at 200 million. And that was the government's assessment, this isn't the government's assessment. No, the government's assessment was at the moment of budget adoption. This is just an inability... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3817	Please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3818	This is just an inability to get from any other position that is already peeled over every measure of resources for something. I repeat, at the time when the Government makes a decision to pay for the transport of students at that point in the Government's decision, it should be said that, given that these funds are not planned enough in certain positions, they will be paid off from the current reserve position and this amendment should therefore not at all, that you are doing some kind of precedent that may be very dangerous in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3819	Thank you very much. Here you go, sir. And then we're going to make a statement on Amendment No. 2. We need to make a statement. So I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the second amendment of the Government. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 86 votes in favour, 40 against the adoption of the second amendment of the Government and it becomes an integral part of the State budget proposal. I ask the applicant's representative to explain Amendment 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the State budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3820	By amendment 3, we sum up all of these changes and propose the redistribution of expenditure totalling 91 million 041 thousand 251 kuna in 2012, 89 million 076 thousand 195 kuna in 2013 and 89 million 128 thousand 957 kuna in 2014 distributed by activities, current and capital projects, with the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Office of Representatives of the European Court, the State Office for the Management of State Property, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and the State Hydrometeorological Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3821	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3. Government. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 83 for, 42 against and 5 abstentions have been accepted by the government's third amendment and it becomes an integral part of the State Budget proposal. A review of the amendments to the proposal of the State budget is shared on the bench. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. We're going to go in a row around this table that you have in front of you. First, Finance Minister Mr. Slavko Linic will declare himself. So we start with the amendment under regular no. 1st, MPs Davorin Mlakar and Đuro Drinker. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3822	The amendment is not accepted. In the 2012 State Budget proposal, funds were planned to help counties, municipalities and cities in the area of special state care, first and second groups. The aid was planned on the basis of the legal criteria set out in Article 35 of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget 2012 and the assessment of the return of income tax on the basis of Article 34 of that proposal. The return of income tax after the annual application of the taxpayer of all areas will return to the burden of income belonging to the state budget, not from the revenue of the budget of those units. In the 2012 State budget proposal for all units of the local self-government of the first and second groups of areas of special state care, aids representing the difference between the aid that these units would achieve on the basis of the legal criteria and the return of income tax to citizens returning to the burden of income belonging to the state budget are planned. And the result of such calculations is the proposed draft budget, so that is why we cannot accept the amendment of MPs Mlakar and Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3823	On the basis of the government's representatives, Representative Davorin Mlakar will be shown, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3824	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. You have brought here what is a conflict between the other amendments to the Income Tax Act and the debate that was where most MPs stood at the point that the units of local self-government due to these new amendments to the laws will receive a little less funds than they did in the last year. The meaning of the amendments submitted by my colleague Popiac and I concerns the specific units of the local self-government of the town of Grubish Polje, which is located in the second group of those units of special state care that was in the last year, I will say it here, I think it was important, it had an insurance of 2 million 920 thousand 589 kuna. You have reduced that amount to a million 351 thousand 724 kuna in the 2012 Budget. Moreover, we believe that local self-government units will come slightly less from the tax given the increased part of the non-taxable income. Therefore, the purpose of our amendment is that for 2012 as well, and it is really small funds to help the local self-government unit to leave the funds for that unit in the amount that it was for 2011, so that the purpose of our amendment would be to secure an amount of 2 million 920 thousand 589 kuna in that position. It was an appeal to this unit to fund whatever these calculations about income tax don't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3825	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Okay. [[Intruder: I ask to vote on the amendment.]] Who's in favour of this amendment? The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. We move on to the amendment under regular number 2. HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3826	The amendment is not accepted. The total expenditure on interest in 2012 amounts to 7 billion 510 million kuna and is sufficient to cover this category of expenditure for the whole 2012 year and represent an increase compared to the execution of 2011 by 416 million kuna. The increase in interest expenditure is significantly mitigated by the fact that the government is going with a draft budget that is a significant reduction in deficits. Somewhere nominally around 5 billion kuna, and with a stock and share income plan or privatisation revenue of 2 billion kuna, which means that for all projections that were in the previous year we will have a significantly less debt than those projections which are the cause of higher interest calculations. The total expenditure on interest in the current fiscal year will also be greatly affected by the election of instruments through the financing of the deficit, depending on whether the euro or the dollar bonds, the vault records, some other instruments, as well as the deadlines for their conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3827	Thank you. Here is Mrs. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament of Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3828	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So both these and the next two amendments apply to which we have proposed, or these are interest positions. We believe that and we said that in the introduction when we talked about the budget that interest positions were planned for approximately 800 million kuna. We support the idea of reducing deficits, but we have to pay the interest. In this particular case of this amendment, I remind you that bonds issued on the domestic market amounting to 600m euros and a billion-and-a-half kuna that the war was not being paid last year, the total amount of these interest amounts of around 382m kuna. And we believe that the position should certainly be increased by 310 million kuna. And please, Mr. President, vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3829	Thank you. Please let us be clear about this amendment. Who's under regular number two for this amendment? The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under regular number 3, also the HDZ Representatives Club. We've heard a statement before, but here you go, Mr. Minister. Yes, yes, again. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3830	The government reiterates its argument on the proposal to reject this amendment, which is that 7.5 billion kuna of planned interest, representing 416 million kunas of higher expenditure compared to achievement, is quite sufficient for interest-based commitments in 2012. The reason why we consider it and why some projections differed significantly was because it was a far smaller deficit than it was calculated to be a deficit for 2012 and also because in those last year's calculations it was not counting on the privatisation revenues that would reduce by 2 billion our debt requirement. We also estimate that by way of debt and type of securities related to the issue of our securities we will achieve such conditions that the greater interest will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3831	Thank you. The obviousness of Madam Vice President Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3832	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are certainly asking for a vote on this amendment because I remind you that in the past month and a half, the Ministry of Finance has increased the state of the vault records by about a billion euros and it is certainly not realistic in this context to plan a reduction of interest expenditure on vault records. We believe it is necessary to increase the planned amount by 257 million 435 thousand kuna, and I did not mention the previous amendment suggest that this amount be found at material expenditures. In this position, we propose to reduce the material expenditure by 2.97% per all users and all programs. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3833	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment under regular number three? The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under regular number 4, the amendment is to the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3834	The government does not accept this amendment either because it estimates that more planned funds than 416 million at all interest rates for 2012 will be sufficient to cover commitments in 2012. And that's because the government planned 5 billion less deficits than last year's deficit projections. Because the government has decided to repay some of the debts to privatisation. And third, we're going to try to get those bond deadlines on the European or US market that won't burden us with interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3835	An indication of the representatives of the HDZ club Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3836	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. So here's to the bonds of a billion-and-a-half U.S. dollars that were issued last year, only one interest payment came in, so this year it's going to be two meals of interest. The finance ministry also announced the issue of a new bond on the US market during the spring. We believe that here we should absolutely increase the planned amount by 253 million 420 thousand kuna. I also note that, of course, since one of the key issues that we need to discuss is continuing to address the issue of shipyards. Our question in the context of this amendment is what will happen and when the guarantees for the shipyards arrive, Mr. Minister, so please consider that fact anyway. Here we also predicted that this amount would be found on the material expenditures by all users, so in all positions and I would like to request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3837	Thank you very much. Please state who's in favor of the amendment under regular number four. HDZ Representatives' Club. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. Now we move on to a new set of amendments. Under regular number five, the amendment was filed by Mrs. Sunana Glavak's representative. I'm asking the Government's representative. It's the sector that I'm talking about internal affairs. Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Tonkovic, please be clear on the amendment under the regular number 5 submitted by the representative Suncana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3838	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Ministry of the Interior disagrees with the proposed amendment because the funds planned are in line with all the activities envisaged and therefore it is not necessary to increase the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3839	Thank you very much. Of course, it's about you talking on behalf of the government, Mr. Tonkovic. You said the Ministry, so that's the government's position. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Tonkovic, on behalf of the government, you'll give an explanation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3840	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Chapters 030 at item 73 at the position of the RKP 21908 Croatian Fire Department planned amount of 10 million 997 thousand kuna increased by 5 million 805 619 kuna so that it reads etc. Total expenditure increase...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3841	Please allow Mr. Tonkovic to explain the government's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3842	Thank you very much. The total expenditure increase of 5 million kunas should be balanced in a way that reduces the amount on page 18 of the 2108 development of civil society and cooperation with NGOs. The government therefore disagrees with the proposed amendment. That's all I can say. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3843	Please. You have Mr. Tonkovic's explanation. It's the obviousness of Mrs. Representative Sunny Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3844	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd have asked the Deputy Minister nicely, I didn't hear the explanation, I heard what I wrote, and I already thought he'd accept it. He read what I wrote well. So I think you should increase the item that he read nicely, and I think you've all heard that, so return the funds to last year's funds. I'll also remind you why I submitted this amendment. In Croatia, there are over 1800 voluntary fire companies and over 60,000 firefighters. For example, for what the Government has written in the draft budget, much more attention is needed since 2011 to co-finance the purchase of new fire trucks, and for these new fire trucks, just so you know, 10 thousand kunas are foreseen. So I'm asking what on earth you can buy for 10,000 kunas for firefighters for over 1800 voluntary fire companies. And I ask why, for example, protection for tourist destinations has been reduced by about 6 million kunas and who will take the responsibility of Mr. Deputy Minister, I would like you to listen to what the MPs say, so who will take responsibility when something doesn't let God happen like that tragedy that was on the Kornati. Therefore, I have not heard the argument but I certainly ask my colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament to vote on my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3845	I put the amendments to the vote under the regular number of the 5th representative of Sunana Glavak. Who's in? The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. We move to the amendment under the regular number 6 tabled by the representative Mr Ante Babic. Here you go, Mr. Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3846	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen. The amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The planned resources to support the DVD are in line with the estimated needs. The Ministry of the Interior does not agree with the reduction of the material expenditure on the KPP 3129 Communication equipment referred to in paragraph 32, amounting to 6 million and 245 kuna where the estimated amount relates to the purchase of the antenna and spare parts and the necessary annual maintenance for the Tetra communication system that is necessary for work. In that body, this paragraph applies to long-term contractual obligations and cannot be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3847	Thank you. An observation of Mr. Babic's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3848	Your Honor, Mr. President, Deputy Minister Tonkovic. Of course I'm not happy with this explanation. You know that there are only 10 thousand kunas in the position of voluntary fire companies, but we have witnessed the events in the last three weeks of these snow opportunities or better said difficulties in Split-Dalmatia County, and thus the extraordinary circumstances that have occurred and have shown that these vehicles have actually worked best through the DVD, and also because of the configuration of the terrain which, both on the islands, the coast and in Dalmatia Zagora, is necessary to obtain both in winter and summer months because of scissors and fire extinguishing. I'm not happy and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3849	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of the amendment under the regular number of six representatives of Ante Babic? The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. HDZ Representatives' Club and Amendments under regular number 7. I ask the Government representative to explain why he accepts or does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3850	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment is not accepted. At this time, we believe that the financial resources planned for the A672007 activities are demining within the division of 040 of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia 04 035 of Croatia's Mine Action Centre and it does not need to be increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3851	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, her president, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3852	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We think it's necessary to increase these funds. We have proposed an increase of just over 83 million kuna, in agreement with the pyrotechnic unions that warn that somewhere in the middle of this year I can really put a key in the lock. It is not only about whether they will have a job or not, but also about still struggling with the difficult problem of mines, demining, and we believe that this is extremely important for the development of the economy, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, especially in mine-hazarded areas, but certainly what is most important for the safety of people. So I ask the Government to reconsider this amendment once more, and if not, I ask the vote and I ask the support of the MPs and MPs for this amendment that has multiple meanings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3853	Thank you very much. I see the government's representative doesn't change his mind and he hasn't come out. So I put the vote on who's for the amendment under the regular no. Seven. The HDZ counseling club? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. We move to a statement on the amendment under regular number 8 submitted by Mr. Davor Ivo Stier. I ask Mr. Defence Minister Matic to plead the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3854	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal for an amendment by MP Davor Ivo Stier that the amendment should not be accepted. In accordance with the rules on the planning of the State Budget, the Ministry of Defence planned funds for the activities of finding and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after 2nd. World War II under Programme 4008 imprisoned and missing, thus providing funding for the legal activities of the Office for the find and maintenance of the graves of victims of communist crimes after 2nd. World War II in division 041 of the Department of Defense. We hold that the state body that makes all kinds of payments for the work of that office and is responsible in every respect. So the only logical and legal sustainability is that both the work and the resources of the office are in the Ministry of Defence in the only logical part of the Department of the Detained and Missing Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3855	Thank you very much. The obvious to your explanation, Mr. Representative Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3856	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, your explanation is just to close your eyes to the problem, but that problem won't go away, it'll just increase. The problem is that you are violating this one national consensus on the overly important topic of relations with the victims of communist crimes. The consensus was reached a year ago in March, in fact, in 2011 where HDZ, SDP and other parties also voted in favour of establishing this office. And it would be logical for the state budget to have an item for this office. He may also be under the head of the Department of Defense. My amendment does not prevent it, but there must be an item that will be for this office as well. And it's actually a problem here, which at a small door with this budget, if this amendment doesn't go through, it's taking off that office. And that's what you yourself announced was intentional. And this has just caused reactions from important institutions of Croatian society, and as you know it has also caused the open letter from the president of the Club of Representatives of the strongest political force in the European Parliament by Mr Daul of the President of the Club of Representatives of the European People's Party which has just warned that it is not going in this direction. All Central European countries had independent offices for these issues. Well, right now, the future president of the Federal Republic of Germany will be headed by such an independent office. This is an important issue, a question that is fundamental to the EU and the foundations of our Constitution. Let's not play with it, let's stick to the consensus, and that's why I'm calling for you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3857	And a vote on him. I ask you to state who is for the amendment of Mr. Agent Davor Eve Stier under regular number 8. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. We're moving on to a new set. Regular number nine, MP Dinko Bosnjak has submitted the amendment. Mr. Maras, the Minister of Entrepreneurship and the craft will explain the government's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3858	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept this amendment. We believe that the planned funds in the item on A 560089 activities have provided enough resources to achieve the objectives that the ministry has foreseen to improve local entrepreneurship infrastructure in units of local, regional and regional self-government. Also, this amount is so far one of the highest planned ever in the RS budgets. We will co-finance, of course, projects to improve entrepreneurship zones, and special attention will be paid to areas of special state care, mountain and mountain areas and islands. Namely, I must mention that in the Ministry of Zone Support Register system it has already covered them so far 344. Unfortunately, of them 344 is only 190 active. And there we need to revise a little bit and the way these support has been granted because you will admit that there is no point in supporting it if it is not implemented within such zones for years. And to say I have a zone of local leaders I don't think that's enough reason to get support. Here's the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3859	Thank you very much. Mr. Dinko Bosnjak's testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3860	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. All local units in the area of special state care and mountain-mounted areas were left without part of the original revenue already invested in the budget and capital investment financing will be at stake. Among other infrastructure building in industrial areas where in many municipalities and cities on the infrastructure intensively is being built. As a result, financial resources should be increased at the position of improving the infrastructure of entrepreneurship zones by 9 million kuna i.e. at least at the level of the previous year. As a result, it is not true that these funds are the largest so far but are reduced by 9 million kuna compared to the previous year. This would help local units to build infrastructure and allow investors to connect to the infrastructure. In addition, 40 million kunas when divided into 200 zones turns out to be about 200 thousand kunas and I believe that these are minor funds for the regulation of infrastructures in those zones. I'm not happy with the answer and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3861	Thank you very much. Please state who's in favor of the amendment under the regular number of the 9th Mr. Representative Dinko Bosnjak? The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. We move on to the amendment under the regular number 10 submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3862	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept the amendment, and the explanation is as follows: means the means to improve the entrepreneurship zones are secured on the activities of A 560089 – improving the infrastructure of entrepreneurship zones for 2012 in a combined amount covering all entrepreneurship zones of units of local and regional and regional self-government that are to be made on a public call for financing entrepreneurship zones. Since the funds are allocated according to the project criteria and they are not intended for individual users to be determined in advance before a public call is made. And once again, I will point out that we believe that these resources that we have planned for this activity are enough for what we have planned in our objectives and that we will pay particular attention to areas of special state concern, mountainous mountainous areas and islands in line with equal regional development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3863	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, who's calling please?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3864	Thank you. There you go, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. This is about seeking a relatively small amount of concrete amount from a million kuna to form the business zone of Jaksic in Požeko-Slavon County. So we're not looking for bread, we're looking for state seed wheat so we can sow and reap that bread ourselves. Here we are doing this space is our space of Slavonia and Požeko-Slavon County in a significant stagnation and we do not believe that this 42 million kuna as long as it is intended to touch the million kunas that we are looking for here are strictly specific to a business zone that is in formation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3865	Thank you to Mr. Drazen Djurovic. Please state who is in favour of the amendment under regular number 10 of the HDSSB Representatives Club? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. We move to the amendment under regular number 11, the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3866	The amendment is also not accepted. I don't know if I should repeat an argument that's identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3867	No, you can just say it's identical to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3868	An identical explanation to the previous one is only not about the same area.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3869	Please wait. Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3870	Excuse me, Mr. President. So this is where it's already been requested, so it's been rejected. It is specifically about establishing a business zone in the Municipality of Caglin one of the poorest municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in the area of Požeško-Slavon County, it is about a concrete project that has a building permit for the construction of a trafostation in a business zone in the defined amount of 650 thousand kuna. So the project has been completed and it would be very useful for that area, which has practically been emptied today, displaced to somehow start the economy by establishing such a business zone. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3871	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I put the amendments under regular number 11. HDSSB's club. Who's in? Thank you. I find that the amendment has not been accepted, it has not received the required majority. We move to a statement on the amendment under regular number 12. Mr. MP Vinkovic, be careful because it is an amendment to the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3872	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government also does not accept this amendment. The explanation is like the previous two, but I will point out once again that I am calling on all units of local, regional and regional self-government to report on a public call to the ministry where those projects that we estimate will contribute to these all criteria that you have been talking about, which is evenly the development of the Republic of Croatia, and believe this government are particularly at heart are areas of special state concern and mountainous areas where people unfortunately find it difficult to return and that we will do everything that this infrastructure also develops in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3873	Thank you, Minister. It's obvious on behalf of the HDSSB club. Mr. Representative Djurović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3874	Thank you, Mr. President. It is therefore projects that have also completed the promotion of the Kutjevo business zone in Požega-Slavon County at a defined amount of one million 122,000,675 kuna. I note and express my skepticism and doubt that this planned amount, which is from the planned budget of 42 million kuna for the improvement of the infrastructure of entrepreneurship zones, will be sufficient this year to finance the planned and entrepreneurial areas that should be. I also note that 19.5 thousand people have been retired in Požega-Slavon County, while 18.5 thousand have been employed. So the employment index is 0,95 and, after the establishment of these entrepreneurial zones, the only way to actually get out of the present state. So, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3875	Thank you very much. Please state who is for the amendment under regular number 12. HDSSB's club. Thank you. The amendment didn't go through and didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to so I say power of culture. Amendment under regular number 13. That was submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Deputy Minister and Representative of the Government of Shipus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3876	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. Amendment number 13. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme in culture and the programmes declared, shall consider and evaluate the Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. The Ministry of Culture's programme of Đakovske vestos already supports and depends on the financial opportunities... will, as will previous years, be the appropriate means for maintaining the Smotra Folklora Djakovski bonds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3877	Thank you. Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3878	Thank you. Normally, I'm not satisfied with the responsibility because the Djakovi bonds are the biggest traditional event. They say coalition colleagues that I will get even less and it is embarrassing that all these years the city of Đakovo for Đakovci bonds that have been held for the past 46 years gets about 90 thousand kuna, which is extremely small unlike some other ones that are getting significantly higher in the RS budget. It is also similar with HTV monitoring because they cannot be satisfied with this response because Đakovci bonds have preserved during all these years during communism, socialism and during all these changes of government in the Republic of Croatia have managed to preserve no matter how much the Ministry of Culture has given and very little money, it has managed to preserve and preserve the tradition of both Slavonia and Đakova Croatia as well. And they also became the International Folklore Survey. Since the budget has a series of even cultural artistic societies that are far less important than the Đakova bonds, the answer cannot be satisfied. And as for the entire budget and relation to Djakov and Slavonia, given that Slavonia had been Turks for a long time, so we drove them out of Slavonia, they had one saying: "Djavi Kurt to ride a murky", and I call on the special representatives from Đakov who are here one, and one of them is lost here from the assembly and especially representatives from Slavonia to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3879	Thank you very much. I put the amendments under regular number 13. HDSSB's club. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment didn't get the required majority and it didn't pass. We are moving on to the amendment under regular number 14, also the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3880	The government's view on amendment number 14 is also not to accept the amendment. I'll read the argument again. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. The Brlic-Mažuranić house reconstruction programme in Slavonski Brod has been registered to the Ministry of Culture contest and will be discussed and a proper decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3881	Thank you. An observation of Mr Bora Grubisic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3882	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, or whatever your name is, you could have solved this case without a competition. Namely, you know that the Brlic house was bought by the town of Slavonski Brod by the Mohaček family and that this amendment requested 4 million kunas for the renovation and protection of the Brlic house, given that the town of Slavonski Brod should be a town of fairy tale but apparently according to your decision it is actually a town of fairy tales or of the forest of Striborova, so I do not expect you in that programme which follows that you will approve for the house Brlic 4 million kuna. I demand the vote of the MPs primarily to see those who are from Slavonski Brod and with 5. Election units to be identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3883	Who is accepting this amendment please raise your hand. Thank you. The amendment didn't go away because he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the amendment under regular number 15, also the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3884	The amendment number 15 is also not accepted, it is the government's position. And the argument is again similar that, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, a public call is being issued for funding of the programme in culture. Reported programmes shall be considered by the Council for certain activities. The programme of renovation and protection of the memorial park and home of Đura Đaković in Brodsko varoš has been notified to the Ministry of Culture's competition. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3885	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3886	For years, the Slavonski Brod projects have been reported, and therefore the mention of Đura Đakovic's house, which I have requested 3 million kunas for the amendment. I expected that at least you would accept this amendment since Djuro Djakovic was the first secretary of the Communist Party of Croatia. But unfortunately, you're not that either, and you don't respect that anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3887	Thank you very much. You want to, of course, but you didn't say we were reading about the amendment by voting. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. The amendment didn't go away because he didn't get the required majority, so we move on to the next amendment. It's an amendment under regular number 16. Just to let you know, there's a total of 76 amendments, so we've got 60 left. So the amendment under regular number 16. HDSSB's club. Here you go, Mr. Shipush.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3888	It is about amendment number 16 to the Government's view that the amendment is not accepted. The explanation is also in line with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture and for which a public call is called for the financing of the programme. Reported programmes will consider and evaluate the Council for certain activities. The programme of reconstruction and protection of the old Firehouse in Slavonski Brod is registered for competition and will be considered and the appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3889	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3890	It is interesting that everything has been reported, but nothing ever to move in monetary terms for Slavonski Brod and so on for the restoration of the old firehouse in Slavonski Brod, and it has passed the government, and it looks like this one works in principle, but only when it comes to Slavonski Brod and our county and the whole Slavonia wait for the coins as the grass grows. So I'm looking for a vote for these 5 million I asked for to rebuild the secession architecture of the Firehouse, the old firehouse in Slavonski Brod, and near the banks of the Sava River and which should really come and look. Please vote on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3891	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment under regular number 16. Thank you. The amendment didn't go away because he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment under order number 17. HDSSB's club. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3892	The government's view on Amendment 17 is also not to accept the amendment. I repeat that, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, the Ministry of Culture has issued a public call for funding of the programme and the programmes notified are being considered and evaluated by the Council for certain activities. The programme of restoration and protection of cultural institutions Croatian Dom in Slavonski Brod is also registered in the competition of the Ministry of Culture. He will be considered as everyone else and a proper decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3893	Thank you. Mr. Representative Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3894	The Croatian home in Slavonski Brod was built with voluntary contributions from citizens of the old Yugoslavia. It was built to mark the thousandth anniversary of the coronation of King Tomislav. So, 1925. It seems that we will welcome 2025 in order to restore the Croatian House which is now in a state of destruction. But I didn't expect you to give these 4 million for the Croatian House, but for Djuru Djakovic, I expected you to give it all away. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3895	Thank you very much. Please, who's for the amendment under regular number 17. Thank you. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. We move on to the amendment under regular number 18. HDSSB's club. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3896	Thank you very much. The amendment to the 18th position of the government is not to be accepted either. I'll repeat this mantra. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. The programme of restoration and protection of the Youth Centre – Kino Apollo in Slavonski Brod is registered for the competition of the Ministry of Culture. It will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3897	Otherwise, Deputy Minister, you don't have to repeat the mantra. You can only appeal to a previous explanation. Mr. Representative Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was just about to propose to the government representative not to repeat all of this, it's proposed, it will be considered, etc. when it's not gonna be considered or adopted, is it? Well, there's no need to keep saying that. Kino Apollo is also actually something that in Slavonski Brod is symbolic. It has been transformed into a youth center, but since the Croatian House as a center of the old is not being adopted, I do not expect you to help young people in Slavonski Brod on culture. So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, and I'm looking closely at these by 5. Election units acting in this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3899	Thank you. I put the amendments under regular number 18 to vote. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. Amendment under order number 19. HDSSB representative club author of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3900	Amendment number 19 of the Government's view that the amendment is not accepted. It's a little different now. This programme is not registered to the Ministry of Culture's competition, so it cannot be considered as such on the cultural councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3901	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3902	This project thus restores and protects bridges of links between Fortress Brod and the town of Slavonski Brod was delivered to me by the County of Brod-Posaviska. Unfortunately, she did not report the project to the Ministry of Culture, but we know well that the fortress Slavonski Brod near 300 years old, clearly it was like any fortress at that time, built with trenches and water in the canals and needed bridges that connect the town of Slavonski Brod with the military fortress. Unfortunately these bridges have been destroyed throughout history, no longer exist, we thought it was good to rebuild in the original form and I sought an amendment of 3 million kuna since it was in the projects of the County of Brod-Posavina. Here's what you're saying is that it's being rejected, so keep refusing. We won't even report this to the Ministry of these bridges for a year. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3903	Of course. Thank you very much. Please state who's in favor of the amendment under regular number 19? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. And finally, relative to the cultural sphere of amendments under regular number 20. HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Shipush.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3904	Thank you very much. Amendment under regular number 20. It also has the view of the government not to be accepted because there is the same situation as the previous one that the programme is unfortunately not registered to the Ministry of Culture's competition, so it cannot be considered as such. It is about the construction of the Museum of Borders in the northwest part of the Fortress of Brod, which the colleague spoke of.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3905	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the amendments Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3906	You see, Mr. President, how many cultures we need in Slavonia and how many cultural objects we need and how abandoned we have been over the past 20 years, and before that for decades. After all, just to conclude that on this set of amendments for the needs of all the restoration of cultural objects and monumental objects in Slavonski Brod, and we also have a pyramid in Slavonski Brod that the state would not give any kuna to it and so on to the Fortress of the Ship, which is indeed a monument to the culture of the zero category. And those who were there well know what this is about, so it's about the northwest wing or part of the fortress, so so on. Cavalier in which the construction of the Border Museum was planned since Slavonski Brod has always been and remained a border area towards some eastern empires. I demand a vote on the amendment to Kavalir.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3907	Who's for the amendment under regular number 20? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority and was not accepted. Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Minister. We are now moving to... a statement on 20 amendments in the area of agriculture, so I urge the representative of the Government of Minister Jakovina to plead first in line that is the 21st Amendment of the HDSB Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3908	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the reason that we believe that the allocation for 2012 from the position A 401 137 for the Croatian Centre of the Horsemotherage of the State Ergela Đakovo and Lipik will be sufficient for the operation of the centre and ergele.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3909	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the amendments Mr Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3910	I didn't expect any different answers. Given that all amendments have been rejected, I argue that these funds will not be sufficient since these funds have been prescribed from the budget two years ago. It is necessary to complete more closed yachts, pay salaries, material costs, expenditures, etc. on the other hand, it is necessary because Đakovačka ergela, which is still part of the HCK since the past government has made one extremely bad decision and has abolished legal personality and was founded in 1506 years and since 1806. That's where the Lippians grow. It is not only a stallion in Đakova but there is an isolated part of Ergela Đakovo that Ivandvor, who happens to be these days, will be 100 years old because IVandvor has embodyed Bishop Ivan Krapac. This proposed amount is necessary in order to complete all investments on Đakovačka ergeli normally to ask the ministry to restore the legal personality of Đakovačka ergeli in the way you received it in the memo. But overall, given this budget, the Republic of Croatia is neither social nor human, nor is especially citizens of Slavonia and Baranja being citizens of the second order, because I say in this budget there is no S of Slavonia and Baranja and there is no even development of the Republic of Croatia. What you could have taken from Slavonia and Baranja but the money that was created there and which was earned does not come back through such projects of general importance to the Republic of Croatia, because I always mention the friendly city of Sinj which is a city of friends with Djakov. If Sinjska alka is a Croatian brand then Đakovačka ergela is a super brand, because it is almost 3 centuries older than Sinjska alka. Mr. Minister, take a good look at the papers and see what are the obligations of Đakovske ergele this time Croatian Horsefarm Centre Ergela Đakovo and Lipik and separate and restore legal personality.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3911	Thank you. Please state the amendment under regular number 21. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. Amendment under order number 22. The HDSSB representative club is the applicant for the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3912	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment on the grounds that we believe that the allocations for 2012 from position T 568 066 are the financing of the national wholesaler will be sufficient for the functioning of the national wholesaler.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3913	Obviously Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3914	The fact is that the situation in agriculture has been quite difficult all these years and this situation unfortunately continues today. The former minister, I even believe and thought he was doing good things for agriculture. In the past two mandates, he has, for example, generously supported and stimulated the construction and planting of new orchards in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that the only fruit produced by the Republic of Croatia and beyond our needs are Mandarins in the Neretva region. Every fruit that is grown in our rooms is small and always ten and more years ago when I watched on television, knowing that it is so, that people throw the fruits they picked from the trees in the territory of the Republic of Croatia I wondered how to throw it, and all the time in the media it says that we do not produce as much statistics as there is demand in Croatia. And this amendment was in the direction of that, because it's obvious over the past 10 years that the number of orchards has grown relatively fast, and the ministry hasn't done enough to keep the rest of the infrastructure monitoring this development of fruit growing. So today in the Republic of Croatia we have very few ULO coolers. I wouldn't know the exact information if it was calculated anywhere, but I believe it's below 10% of the needs of the Republic of Croatia. And this amendment has gone in this direction for the ministry to finally realize what has been under way for ten years. So building a ULO freezer capacity of 2 and a half thousand tons, which is a drop in the sea for Slavonia and Baranja but still would mean one symbolic start to solve these problems. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3915	Thank you very much. I put to the vote the proposal of the HDSSB representative club, the amendment under regular number 22. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, it was not accepted. Amendment under order number 23. He is also the applicant of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3916	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment on the grounds that we believe that the allocation for 2012 at the position of A568024 the promotion of agricultural production and market intervention will be sufficient to pay off the commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3917	Thank you. Mr. Dinko Buric's point of view.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3918	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, of course we're not satisfied, because what you said would be incorrect. Namely, the very national envelope under the State Support Act for the past year, which amounted to 2 and a half billion kuna, and you have now secured a billion and a half. So that's about 58.6%. But aside from that. All right, listen up. You cut the budget, and we all said it was worth saving. The total cost reduction savings are 3.4 billion kuna from 120 to 117. You have 20 ministries. That it was a fair distribution of the burden of putting up with the crisis is a reduction of 2.8% of the total expenditure. Then it wouldn't have to be identical to every department division if you'd cut 2.8%. But it's not normal for you to reduce a billion and 300 out of those billions and 366 million more precisely, out of those 3.4 billion, which is 40.06%, and agriculture is the main strategic branch of the economy in Slavonia and Baranja. And this is how you said you wanted to run Slavonia to get everything else. Well, this is not how you're gonna make it. If you're talking about the ineffectiveness of the current distribution of incentives and it's being discussed, to argue. However, the effectiveness of incentives as well as anything else in life does not change in this way or does not increase or improve in such a way as to eliminate it or cut it so drastically, rather than leave it, not to talk about it being needed and increased but to leave it and to just change the criteria of how it will be allocated. Therefore, we are not satisfied with your decision, by rejecting this amendment for a particular reason, because it is a strategic economic branch primarily for Slavonia and Baranja, but of course for the entire Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3919	Thank you. Who's for the amendment under regular number 23? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority and was not accepted. The amendment under regular number 24 is the applicant of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3920	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment with... Explanation as well as Amendment 23. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3921	Thank you. Apparition on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3922	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. On behalf of the club, I would like to say that this amendment is necessary for a simple reason in order to achieve what the Support Act provides. This amendment is quite different from the amendment, the previous amendment for a reason because, one item that you highlighted in the incentives is from 776 where you say incentives in agriculture, market interventions, commitments from 2011. We suggest that this same one be included in these billions of kunas. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like to point out that in this way, the HDZ Representatives' Club wants to help both the government and you, too, because we are aware that with the situation provided for in the state budget, you do not have the space to resolve and meet the requirements and those on the road today. For these reasons, we propose and want to help the Government and the Ministry with a proposal for this amendment. It is not as much financial as the previous amendment, but it will create sufficient financial resources to meet the needs needed for agriculture in 2012 and to mitigate the greatest reduction in the financial resources currently in agricultural aid items. And therefore here I am asking the vote on this amendment and I believe that the representatives of the position will also support us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3923	Who's to accept amendments under regular number 24? Thank you. The amendment didn't go away because he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the amendment under regular number 25. He's the owner of the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Mr. Minister, please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3924	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment because we believe that there is a measure within the IPARD programme through which users can comply with EU standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3925	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3926	We're not happy with this attitude, because it's not true. The IPARD measures cannot finance certain investments, and in this case this concerns building new processing facilities primarily in the milk and meat sector. It is therefore necessary to provide additional resources in our national budget. We have proposed 200 million kunas to build our own processing facilities, and this is particularly important to us in Slavonia and Baranja because we do not want to be just a raw material base but also have that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3927	Thank you very much. Please state who's in favor of the amendment under regular number 25? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority, so he wasn't accepted. The amendment under order number 26. is submitted to the HDSSB representative club. Mr. Secretary will plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3928	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment on the grounds that we believe that the allocation for 2012 for position D 821 044 – Horizontal support measures in the food and processing industry will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3929	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3930	It is clear that we are not satisfied with this either because you simply ignore and bring us into a more difficult situation than it has been, and again I stress that this is the most important thing for the economy in Slavonia and Baranja, in such a way that you simply ignore and bring us into an even more difficult situation than it is so far, and it is clearly no longer worth the words you have expressed in good faith towards the launch of the backward and poor Slavonia and Baranja and clearly that we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3931	Thank you. Who's for the amendment under regular number 26? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the amendment under regular number 27, same club of representatives of the HDSSB. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3932	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment, although there is a legal framework of significant... They're not done. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture will work intensively on education and establishment this year... and prepare quality plan for the next financial year. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3933	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3934	Thank you, Mr. President. If there was a good intention, indeed a good intention to do something, then here would be the smallest item in these demands that we have accepted from these amendments for the division of the Ministry of Agriculture. We didn't expect you to accept all 41 amendments that we sent worth billions and 896 million kunas, but we really had the right to expect you to accept at least some amendments that you would send a message saying what you were saying and thinking. By not accepting even this amendment, which was the smallest of these four, I really don't think there's anything more to comment on. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3935	Thank you very much. We'll get to the bottom of this amendment. Who's to accept amendments under regular number 27? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted, did not receive the required majority. We now move to the amendment under regular number 28 submitted by representatives and representatives of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Petar Cobankovic, Franjo Lucic, Tomislav Culjak, Zvonko Milas and Šimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3936	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the reason that it considers that the funds planned at K650 048 are sufficient to carry out planned works that will cover the implementation of archaeological research on the route of BJJ-Bosutski channel in 2012 necessary to continue construction work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3937	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the amendment, Mr. Representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3938	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me tell you the reason why we went to submit this amendment. The need to increase areas under irrigation is the reason. This Biđ-Bosutsko polje project is one of the largest irrigation projects and it should create assumptions of irrigation about 4000 hectares of agricultural areas of which 2000 hectares are located in Vukovar-Srijem County and 2000 hectares in the area of Brod-Posavina County. And in order to maintain the planned dynamics of the completion of this project, we believe that these necessary resources are necessary. On the other hand, this is not only a irrigation project, it is also very important from the point of view of the water economy because this project creates assumptions of reviving or enriching the water of small waters of Spačva and Bosuta. And that is why I ask once again for a vote on the grounds that we believe this is the necessary means, and we have proposed in the amendment which item would ensure that these funds are provided. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3939	Thank you. Who is regular number 28 for this amendment? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted, did not receive the required majority. We move to the amendment of Mr. Branko Box, who submitted the amendment under regular number 29. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3940	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment on the grounds that those funds are sufficient for the planned activities i.e. for preparatory work for the second phase of the irrigation system... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3941	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Branko Box, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3942	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you are wrong, given that Croatian waters have made an assessment, and this is exactly the amount I asked for. So it's an increase of about 600, 700 thousand kuna to settle the work on the recovery of the swimming pools in the settlement... So we're not looking for money to resuscitate swimming pools. We're looking for a pool for agriculture. [[You don't understand.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3943	Thank you very much. Please state who's in favour of the amendment under regular number 29. Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. The 30th Amendment is an amendment to the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3944	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment on the grounds that we believe that the allocations for 2012 from K 819 042 will be sufficient for the implementation of planned works in view of the dynamics of works, i.e. the dynamics of the implementation of the work in 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3945	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3946	Thank you, President of the Parliament. We're not happy with this attitude because the irrigation project... of enormous importance for the development of agricultural production in... [[You don't understand.]] County. [[You don't understand.]] In view of the fact that the implementation of the project is already under way, we consider it necessary to speed up the completion of this project in order to bring the same purpose in place as soon as possible. We believe that 4 million HRK 250 thousand is not enough for more intensive continuation of work than quite the opposite, there will be conservation of works, and thus preventing the development of high income agricultural production. It's about a surface area of 1280 acres, which is not small. With this budget, it will take us 10 years to complete this project, and we know that it is necessary to develop agriculture as the bearer of the development of the economy in Slavonia and Baranja. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3947	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative of the Czech Republic. Please state the amendment under regular number 30. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. The amendment, under regular number 31, is also the applicant of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3948	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment. The project will be financed by the original resources of the Croatian Waters, depending on the degree of preparation of the investment and technical documentation and the resulting building permits for that project.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3949	Thank you very much. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3950	Mr. Minister, I am here on my second term and I have submitted this amendment for the construction of water purifiers and sewers of part of Nova Gradiška, Cernik municipality and Rešetari. And for the third time I get the same explanation as in a crumb exactly the same as you just said. It's sad to see the Minister of Slavonia refuse to say Slavonic amendments like this. And unfortunately, there are no photographers here to photograph these hands of Slavonic MPs who remain down or raised when it comes to Slavonic amendments. Why can't the photographers take a picture of it? I don't know why they're not here. Are they forbidden to take pictures? I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3951	And we'll take him. Who's under regular number 31 for this amendment? Thank you. The amendment didn't go away because he didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment, under regular number 32, was submitted by MPs Mr. Vladimir Seks vice president, MP Josip Salapic and MP Tomislav Ivic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3952	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the reason that the funds of the K-650078 activities of the collection system of Osijek-Baranja County cannot be used to build a public water supply system but only for public sewage and waste water treatment systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3953	Thank you very much. Representative and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3954	Thank you very much. The water supply system in the Osijek-Baranja County area and especially in the Municipality of Vladislavci has passed under the chairmanship of Ms Jadranka Kosor in such a way that the co-financing system between the two ministries of regional development, agriculture, the Regional Development Fund of Croatian Waters has handled this in the best optimal manner and that this is a highly critical situation in the Municipality of Vladislavci by drinking water. We are now asking this amendment to put an additional 3 million and 900 kuna into the state budget. This is important for the continuation of the water supply programme and for 1200 inhabitants and municipalities to have drinking water. All these years, it's been a very critical situation. Ministers, we propose this item, it will not be possible to complete the programme, it will not be possible to provide drinking water for these remaining 1200 inhabitants. We suggest that the Office of the President of the Republic be deprived of this amount of 3 million and 900 thousand kuna. It won't be a big deal for him, so I suggest that the MPs vote for this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3955	I suggest we make a statement about him. Who's for the amendment under regular number 32? Thank you. The amendment didn't go away because he didn't get the necessary majority. An amendment under regular number 33 submitted by representatives of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, Petar Cobankovic, Franjo Lucic, Tomislav Culjak, Zvonko Milas and Šimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3956	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment. The budget plan and the Government's amendment at the position of K-2019 water supply, the regional water pipeline of eastern Slavonia proposed financial plan and Croatian waters and projections for 2014 provided a total of 40 million kuna from the state budget and 30 million kuna from the original Croatian waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3957	Thank you very much. Proposer of amendments Mr. Representative Petar Cobanković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3958	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to stress that the issue of water supply or the greater availability of the public water supply was one of the priorities of the last government. The regional waters of Eastern Slavonia are of exceptional importance for Brod-Posavina, Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County. The fact is that it is a space beneath which there are extremely large quantities of quality, good and healthy water, and unfortunately most of the Slavonian places and spaces do not have enough water or it does not satisfy health conditions. I must say that I commend what will be proposed to the amendment to the implementation of the Croatian Waters budget and increase the funds, but also this amendment refers to the increase in resources in the state budget and the amendment goes in the direction of respecting both the situation and all that these funds are at the level as they were in 2011. And therefore, I ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3959	Thank you very much. I am putting this amendment to the vote under regular number 33. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. Amendment under order number 34. HDSSB's club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3960	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment with reasons as well as for Amendment 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3961	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3962	Mr. Water Minister is a civilization achievement since Egyptian and Roman times. Unfortunately, it is obviously not in Croatia in the 21st century. So that Podgorica that was on TV last year, and... the villages in the Sininj Municipality that you visited a few days ago along with the President of the Parliament and the Vice President of the Parliament, unfortunately, will not come in line for drinking water and water in this year. Unless, in the government's amendment to that fourth increase of 20 million kuna for the East Slavonia water line, maybe this 4 million for the Sibinj municipality has been hidden. It doesn't matter to me whether it's on my amendment or on your proposal and your government's proposal. It would be very good if at last... the villages in the Municipality of Sibinj or Slavonic "Switzerland" as they call it would finally get drinking water. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3963	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment under regular number 34? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. The amendment, under regular number 35, was submitted by representatives Mr. Vladimir Seks, Mr. Josip Salapic and Mr. Tomislav Ivic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3964	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment. At the position of K-2024 water supply, the regional water supply system of Osijek-Baranja County of the proposal of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2012 and the projections for 2013 and 2014 have been provided a total of 3 million kuna. And for the above mentioned project of the construction of the main water supply pipeline Podgorica-Budimci and part of the supply pipeline of the village Budimci behind the Velimirovac water supply site, a million and 500 thousand kuna were provided, which is enough for the projected works.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3965	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3966	It would be nice, dear minister, to make it enough for these papers. In the municipality of Podgorica and the settlements Podgorica is the most difficult situation with drinking water not only in the area of Slavonia and Osijek-Baranja County but also in the territory of Croatia. Let's just remember last summer when the wells dried up and when both the Government and the Croatian Army were supposed to bring drinking water for both people and cattle, these dramatic scenes that were happening. And now this program is that the entire Municipality of Podgorjek is supplied with drinking water in a good biozah. These resources are now not sufficient for the integration of all locals, so about 700 residents of the Municipality of Podgorek on drinking water. Dear ministers will repeat those scenes we had last year in the summer where cattle will die, people will be infuriated, angry. And this is the sum of one drop in the sea to finally resolve that burning, difficult issue of water supply as a whole with this most difficult drinking water problem in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3967	Thank you very much. Please let us read about this amendment. Who's for the amendment under regular number 35? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. Amendment under order number 36. The representatives of Mrs Ivanka Roksandić and Mr Ivan Shantek submitted. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3968	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment. At the position of K 20-27 the water supply of Sisak-Moslavina County of the proposed financial plan of Croatian Waters for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014 was provided a total of 2 million kuna for the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3969	Thank you very much. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3970	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. We do not accept your argument for the simple reason that you have significantly reduced funds in this year's water supply budget for Sisak-Moslavina County. You didn't say that. And I don't know how you intend to end up with 2 million kunas, and I note that you have reduced and the funds you yourself said in the positions of Croatian Waters. How do you plan to finish the water supply that the past government started mainly for the so-called so-called so-called government. Moslavačka Posavina waterway connecting Posavina, Moslavina and Slavonia in its last share from Kutina to Lipovljana. The programme also includes our request to complete the undeveloped second part of the first phase of water supplying the settlement southeast of Sisak. I note that these are Hungarians, Latvians, Old Village, Chakovska... Trnjani and Bestrma note this because these are settlements on special state care, and just before you said that you are particularly sensitive to areas of special state concern. They are now supplied with water from the so-called so-called water. a local plumbing that is truly unsupervised and without control. Croatian waters had a plan and decided to build and connect these settlements and complete the water supply system on Sisak-Sunja's direction to connect it to the water line of the town of Sisak under the management of the Sisak water line, which would really provide the means for this purpose is the same as my predecessors said when the summer time came, these settlements do not have water. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3971	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment under regular number 36? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority and he wasn't accepted. Mr. Minister, thank you. We move on to amendments concerning regional development and EU funds. We have the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Branko Grcic with us, so please join us. So first, the amendment under regular number 37. So we have four amendments to this sector, with a regular number of 37 submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3972	This amendment is not accepted. The explanation is as follows. In the proposal for a national budget for 2012 and projection for 2013 And in 2014, at the site of reconstruction of buildings of social purposes, no funds were planned for reconstruction, I stress, municipal infrastructure facilities. However, the sub-project of the construction of the Kuševac-Ivanovci sewerage network was nominated as part of the project by the integrated development of the local EIB community2 and the value of the applied sub-project is 4 million 880 thousand kuna net without VAT in the joint financing of the ministry and the city of Đakova. The city of Đakovo participates with 50% of the applied value. The city is also the contractor of the implementation of the sub-projects, but until today the city has not unfortunately begun its activities on the implementation of this sub-project.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3973	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3974	Of course I'm not happy with the answer. The city of Djakovo almost finished that sewerage of Kuševac-Ivanovci. The contract was signed in 2008. You have at least a bunch of memos in your ministry but you'll have to find that while all the services give it to you. On the other hand, the recovery of the collector's network is in the IPA system where the state must provide 30%, this total amount of 32.5 million kuna has been increased for this larger amount of VAT for the purchase of land, the payment of water contribution, the payment of all possible concessions that are State-related to the state budget. Therefore, only the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds must take a good look at the problem. And several situations have been sent to your ministry, Mr. Minister, so you'll study them very well. I would ask you here, unlike Mr. Cobankovic, who signed the contract from Pankretić, who signed the contract annex here to finally pay those 50% to the city of Djakov, because we are standing before the end and that part of the sewerage of Ivanovci connected pipeline with Djakov, there is still the suburban settlement Kuševac. And it's somewhere a project that's being done here, and if we keep going at this pace, it's going to be working for 50 years, and I hope you're not going to be a minister anymore, and I'm not going to be an agent anymore, that we're going to go to someone who's deserved and someone who's in undeserved retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3975	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment under regular number 37. Who's up for that amendment? The amendment did not receive the required majority, it was not accepted. We move on to the amendment under regular number 38, the HDSSB's representative club. Here you are, Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3976	So the amendment is not accepted, and the explanation is as follows. The city of Đakovo does not have the status of an assisted area and its realization would therefore not be possible through this item of the budget. This item of the budget primarily finance projects of rehabilitation, upgrade, construction of basic municipal and social infrastructure facilities, in line with the available resources of the state budget in local self-government units classified in assisted areas and, as a rule, less priority projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3977	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3978	Thank you. So here after these new decisions and the mini tax reforms, I don't know what reforms after this entire state budget not only the city of Đakovo but the whole of Slavonia and Baranja will become and will need an assisted area, but not according to that Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, but by law simply that what we now get from income taxes and what we get from the state budget. So someone doesn't get me wrong, and I want to point out in particular, that we have a '74 Constitution by any chance. In the year, every citizen of Slavonia and Baranja would think carefully with such measures, with such a budget to break away from the government. Not from Croatia, but from a government like this that doesn't give a single kuna to Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3979	Thank you very much. I put the amendments under regular number 38 to vote. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get the required majority. We move to the amendment under regular number 39, representatives of Mr Bozidar Kalmeta and Mr Josip Boric. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3980	So the amendment is not accepted. The explanation is as follows. In accordance with the degree of preparation of spatial and project-technical documentation and the necessary outcomes in the right to build proposed funds in the budget, the proposed budget will be fully sufficient to carry out the activities. The island and coastal development project, namely EIB 3, is a new European Investment Bank project, and therefore it is not necessary to increase the above-mentioned item in the proposal for a state budget. Namely, what you do not have in the written explanation, and what I would like to add, we do have around 20 million additional at our disposal, and we have targeted them for probably not noticing in the port infrastructure that remains under a special agreement under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. So that 20 million from EIB 3 goes for purpose again in the island and coastal areas, which is not bad, you'll agree. And one more thing, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, of course, made significant savings this year in the heading of administration and governance, one certainly of the ministries that cut the most deeply in that item so that they couldn't even find those additional funds to transfer the money to where you suggested it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3981	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3982	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Government. Well, in part, I could accept this answer, but the fact is that we in the House can't know, given this level of the accounting plan, what the funds are in this ministry or in someone else, given that we only see the general part. But for me and our intention was, both me and Mr. Calmeta, and also HDZ, that we at least try to return to the islands what this government took from them in two months. It was taken on four occasions, and nothing came back to them. For the first time through the income tax of 20 million kuna for 50 local self-government, twice through the Law on the financing of local self-government, only they were taken 0.5% and that percentage was given to the county. Everyone else got something or at least they stayed on the same thing. The third time here is today's passed the Act on the Protection of Cultural Goods, where it is their indirect monumental rent taken away and given to someone else. And now through the budget again the fourth time. We thought this was the only way to at least try to through capital aid at least as much help to make up for that difference of nearly 20 million kuna is almost less at the building position within the budget, so almost 50 million kunas are lost and they get nothing. Now it's not clear to me, in this assembly of parliament, never again MPs from the island. In the Croatian government, we have ministers and deputies who come from Croatian islands. Well, it's not clear to me that that amount of islanders have managed to make such a bad story for the Croatian islands in two months, and summer is coming and we're all going to go towards these Croatian islands and normally, then tell those leaders what they lack or not well in their local environments. Here's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3983	Thank you very much. It would be good for as many citizens to go to sea as possible, but we'll see how they can. Please state the amendment under regular number 39 submitted by representatives Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta and Mr. Josip Boric. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. The amendment under regular number 40 was submitted by representative Mr. Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3984	So the amendment is not accepted. The reason is next. In the proposal for a national budget for 2012 and projections for '13, And in '14. the position of reconstruction and construction of school facilities is therefore a programme related to the loan of the Council of Europe Bank, so the CEP 7 has not been planned since negotiations with the Council of Europe's Development Bank further activities on the implementation of this project have been suspended during 2011 so that no funds could be foreseen in this year based on that programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3985	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3986	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I understand the Ministers what you said and I know about the interruption of the program, but I was just looking for minimum funds for the project after we got land from the town of Slavonski Brod for this purpose and since High School "Matija Mesic" with 1027 students is working in inappropriate conditions. A Veleučište in Slavonski Brod with 1100 students in 3 study programs works on 6 locations. I was just looking for a minimum minimum for the project, for these two projects, for project documentation, for project design, and then for the next budget, they'd be looking for funds to build. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3987	Thank you very much. Who's under regular number 40 for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Greek Government. We're moving to the maritime, transport and infrastructure area. We have 8 amendments from that sector, so please Mr. Zdenko Antisic, Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure to join us. First, to declare the amendment under regular number 41 submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3988	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted by the Government by reducing the position of budget A 570334 – The maintenance of rail infrastructure and traffic regulation would pose a concern to the safety of transport as well as to the minimum means of maintenance of railways which the rest of the railway network is trying to maintain at the existing level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3989	Thank you very much. Is anyone out? Yeah. Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3990	Thank you. So it's about the Pleternica railway – Caglin – Našice. The traffic of this railway was suspended more than two years ago by decision, temporarily suspended by the HH decision due to the permanence of the railway, with the promise of Mr Jerneic then director of HZ infrastructure that very soon the works on the rescheduling of the railway would begin. It's been over two years. The works have not started in any way. Meanwhile, equipment is additionally devastationed on that railway line. It is a 35km long share that connects Požeko-Slavonska, Osijek-Baranja County, which is the lifeline of the movement of people and goods in the area. The only cost-effective way to export wood from the Caglin municipality, the only direction to move and travel students, students and students to primary, secondary and university schools. There is also a consensus publicly spoken and all political forces and the social and the general public in Požega-Slavon County, including which supports and seeks to re-establish the railway. I note that both Mr Lucic and SDP President of the Požega-Slavon County Mr Ronko have publicly supported and advocated the reconstruction of the railway, and I hope that in this case they will also publicly support this amendment that is required, so to re-establish traffic with the railway track. Of course, this is about taking funds from an item relating to the maintenance of infrastructure. This is exactly about maintenance and infrastructure reconstruction operations. So, I don't see what would have gone wrong. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3991	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment under regular number 41. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. Coming through, amendment under regular number 42. HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Antishic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3992	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted by the Government with the following explanation. The proposal for a public road construction and maintenance plan for 2012 is to plan and resolve property-legal relations and draw up technical documentation for this underpass of 460000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3993	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3994	And that's all you predicted for that underpass? The underpass on the 423 state road in Slavonski Brod in Osijek Street is an underpass, a pardon road that closes 60 times a day with a mustache, a ramp and where thousands of cars wait and spend gasoline and nerve on citizens. 16000 vehicles are waiting every day in Osijek Street on the mustache, on the corridor, the 10 rail corridor that connects, so Central, Western Europe with Eastern Europe. On several occasions, I asked for an amendment to launch the construction of this underpass. Unfortunately, here you are now saying it's 460,000 kuna for documentation. It is not true, because the Croatian roads immediately before the new year intended to open a tender for the construction of this underpass, for the project documentation that is finished because it was done in the IGH in Osijek and I know that this documentation is finished. Therefore, it only takes goodwill for the citizens of Slavonski Brod to finally address this difficult traffic problem of the town of Slavonski Brod and the entire County of Slavonsko-Posavina. On the state road, I speak on the state road. The state of Croatia is therefore responsible for it. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3995	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment under regular number 42. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. An amendment under regular number 43 submitted by Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3996	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It's about the same amendment as number 42.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3997	Mr. Representative Djurdjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3998	Thank you very much. It is true that it is the same project, but I would not repeat myself yet what the distinguished colleague Grubisic said, but I would say that the text of the competition was sent out before these last elections, and it was sent back by the Croatian roads and sent back that the project of building that underpass is very important for the citizens of Slavonski Brod will continue this year. The projects are over. The announcement of the contest is gone. Now it's not clear to me at the end of the day what the problem is. Whether this was put out of ad act or the project will be obtained by the citizens of Brod-Posavina County and the town of Broda. My colleagues from the fifth constituency have assured me that this project is going. Now I see you don't. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u3999	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment under regular number 43? Thank you. He wasn't accepted, he didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment under regular number 44 was submitted by the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Minister Antisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4000	Mr. President, the amendment is not accepted by the Government with the following explanation. No project documentation for the reconstruction has been developed for the stated state road stock and can therefore not be included in the proposal for a public road construction and maintenance plan this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4001	Thank you. Mr. Agent Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4002	Thank you. Well, you're the new assistant minister, and I've been here five times and I'm proposing the same amendments, so nothing really has changed. For the reconstruction as far as I know and as far as I know, I don't need construction permits, but I remind you that this student tour is known in the media as the "death map". So eventually, when after these measures, is it because we in Slavonia as the Prime Minister says we should stop being stubborn and sing Slavonia rather than start working, but unfortunately we won't have a lot of income from this work because we're the poorest region, we can sit in the car because there's no deniveling of the crossings, and it's open somewhere before some local '97 elections. The year is neither lit nor has a light signalling, so with a song to init Slavonia happy with this beautiful budget that will bring good to all citizens of Slavonia and Baranja and Croatia who is both social and human and developmental and I don't know how we should cross that crossroads and pray before that to the dear God and show here in the state budget there is no money for the reconstruction of the bypass because it is a state road so the ministry didn't make the documentation. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4003	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment under regular number 44. Who's in? The amendment did not receive the required majority and was not accepted. We're moving on to the amendment under regular number 45. HDSSB's club. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4004	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted in addition to the following explanation, and no documentation project has also been developed for the given section of the State Road and can therefore not be proposed this year by a public road construction and maintenance plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4005	Thank you. Mr. Agent Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4006	Thank you. The poor mayor of Djakova really doesn't do any project documentation for the state road. Otherwise I will remind you my only amendment to the Croatian Roads Plan in 2008 was adopted then and this has entered the budget. And this road is because the state D46 connects Đakovo and Vinkovce is in the programme of Croatian roads. However, Croatian roads had no money, so they wanted the city of Djakovo to finance project documentation. Otherwise, that road looks really like a dresden road after the bombing of the Allies in World War II, and since there are two doctors who are ministers calling you and Minister Komadin when he gets well so they can check you out first, get in the car and take a ride on that road. I'm not sure your kidneys will stay in place. This is not only a request from me as representative or mayor of Djakov, but very quickly since I can no longer lie to the citizens of the city of Djakova that this road is located in the state budget that will be made this year or that year, I am not sure whether I will be able to prevent the closure and blockade of that road because it is truly unfortunate that since 2008 when that road entered the state budget, and the state budget is, there is no doubt for it neither. Well, here's my advice for you to start doing a little bit of projects. We are entering the EU. And if it wasn't done, before only around Zadar was done, now I hope not only on Brač and around Rijeka, there is Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4007	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment under regular number 45. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority, so he wasn't even accepted. Amendment under order number 46. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4008	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government also does not accept this amendment with reasons as well as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4009	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4010	As far as I'm aware there is, there is a project documentation here since that road has been reconstructed to Bračevci. So, it's about ten miles to Djakov. We need to go through one section of Drenje Municipality, Captain and get to Djakov. And otherwise, it's a road that very often and some position and opposition were putting on a tape and opening up how they liked it. Either for parliamentary or for local elections precisely because nothing was ever done on it. If it is the D46 Dresden road, this D515, and the state road which connects two cities in Slavonia Nasice and Djakovo, in which they need to, for example. The citizens of Đakova go to a remote municipal state attorney's office because there are no buses or railways. Or go to the Municipal Court for criminal proceedings that these before you were done then will be driven along a road that looks like that Berlin road in front of the wolf pit. Where Kilder was hiding. So it is impossible to pass even these tractors that are justified here on Slavonia Avenue, and it is indeed one thread of fate that those who seek justice come again from Slavonia here to Zagreb without those who are in Zagreb doing anything for Slavonia. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4011	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment under regular number 46. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. Under regular number 47, the amendment was also submitted by the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Antishic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4012	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government does not accept this amendment with the following explanation: the amount provided for in heading A-819031 under the heading BINA Istria’s principal share represents the contracted obligation of the Republic of Croatia resulting from the contract signed and cannot be further modified.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4013	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4014	I asked, if you read correctly, to add a new position here. Not that this represents I don't know which ones with BINA Istria or I don't know which other institutions this one owed to the Republic of Croatia, I didn't. So I'm asking for a new position to be added. Otherwise, the street of Stjepana Radića has completed the entire project documentation for her. It used to be a state road, two years ago, and then someone renamed it county but one of the vessels was the housewives of the city of Djakova and the city paid and made the whole project documentation. And by the way, on our items and so did we at the HDSSB club, we asked that the expenditure be reduced, and even with the Security Intelligence Service, so that you're recording less, monitoring, listening to cell phones, less arrests, etc. So this is a symbolic amount for which I believe that the Republic of Croatia should be involved in the construction of a centre such as Djakov's archbishop city and the heart of Slavonia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4015	Thank you very much. Please state that amendment, that's the amendment under regular number 47. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. And finally, the amendment under regular number 48 regarding this sector. It was also submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted by the Government with the following explanation. As part of the existing position A 570 447 under the name of construction and maintenance of port buildings in ports of national importance, funding for the completion of the Batin river port project has been planned. In the total amount provided for by the labour costs, which is an integral part of the project documentation. The planned project started in 2011 as a project co-financed with Croatian waters, since other than the construction of a passenger port, works will be carried out to edit the Karasica River water flow. Given that the planned resources should be sufficient to complete the work on the river port of Batin, we do not consider it necessary to add a new position on the proposal for a state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4017	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ivan Drmić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4018	This is one of the very important projects in the area of Slavonia and Baranja not only for our economy but I would especially like to highlight the development of continental tourism. In Baranja there is also a Croatian pearl that is Kopački rit, and the Danube river is often passed by by tourist ships that are full of foreign tourists not only from eastern countries but also from others. Unfortunately, they do not have the opportunity to agree to the Croatian coast but are only passing there from which Slavonic-Baranja tourism certainly does not benefit. This project has been heavily invested so far and it would be regrettable not to invest more 7.5 million kunas as needed to bring this project to an end and begin to produce specific financial results for this area. I beg you, or I want this amendment to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4019	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment under regular number 48. Who's in? Thank you very much. He wasn't accepted because he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Minister Antisic. I'm going to skip the amendment under regular number 49 because the government's representative will be here for that area in about five to ten minutes, so I'm asking you to respect that. We're moving on to the amendment under regular number 50. And that is one now smaller number of amendments concerning science, education and sports. So I ask Mr. Minister to join us. And here's the amendment under regular number 50. It is an amendment submitted by representatives of Mrs Ivanka Roksandić and representative of Mr Ivan Shantek. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4020	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment for the reasons in accordance with Article 143(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools means of building up and reconstructing the school space and equipping school institutions according to standards prescribed by the minister and in accordance with state pedagogical standards ensure in the budgets of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Only capital projects were taken over from that provision on 1 July 2001 from the date of the start on... the state budget for which the completion of the commitment took over the state budget and the school in language and letter of national minorities and schools for children with developmental difficulties. The same provision does not apply to schools involved in specific building programmes financed by international loans, for example. The World Bank loan. As regards that capital investment project in primary education, only funds were provided in 2012 for the settlement of the already created contractual commitments for 9 start-up capital projects of primary schools under the school building programme financed by the joint assets of the state budget and loans of the World Bank. These are OS Brače Radić Kloštar Ivanić, OS Vukovina regional school Novo Čice, OS Srči Rijeka, OS Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević Senj, OS Blaž Tadjanović Slavonski Brod, Podvinje regional school Podkkalalje, OS Visnjevac Osijek, OS Ivana Mažuranić Vinkovci, OS Vukova regional school Šotan, OS Pujanke. Since the World Bank's loan was used as part of the foreign component as of 31 January 2012, the rest of the contractual commitments are financed from this capital position of the state budget as part of the domestic component. I must stress in line with the government's definition in cooperation with the founders of funding holders, we will consider the model of financing the construction of buildings and this school through the model of public private partnership. We have gathered at this time as an initiative for the development of a public private partnership project initial data from all cities and counties and have reached 338 capital projects with the aim of ensuring conditions for the introduction of so-called. one-way work in primary and secondary schools. The total amount of the PPP project is 6 billion 216 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4021	Thank you very much. An indication of the representatives of the amendment-proposer, Ms. Ivanka Roksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4022	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. I cannot fully accept your argument other than this other part that you will consider. I hope you put it into your plans. And why have we submitted this amendment? So for the very reason that you are in this position when you initially explained that you cannot finance capital projects from this position and that you are exactly the position for decentralised functions from which such capital projects are financed completely for 360 million kuna. So you made it impossible for cities and municipalities to allocate funds for these purposes in that part of capital projects in primary school or secondary school. And since we are all here and you have been represented and your associates have raised our hand to bring pedagogical standards to schools in order to improve the working conditions of primary schools, so we, too, have put this school, which is 35 years old, which is the OŠ Brothers Fishing in Sisak, as a proposal for an amendment because it is a school of montage character and it is almost impossible to teach in this school. This year you ministers completely cut the budget for education, reduced wages, reduced the possibility of cities and municipalities investing precisely in school facilities, and thus really brought about a questionable further education. I ask that in order to do so, and taking care of your last words, that you will consider the possibility of further financing 300 and some facilities, do not consider but that one of these schools for the city of Sisak will be very important in these plans. I ask the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4023	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment under regular number 50? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority, so he wasn't accepted. The amendment under regular number 51 was submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not fully explain why the Government does not accept this amendment because the argument is the same as in the previous case. I would just like to point out that as far as this capital project is concerned and the resources of the state budget and the loan of the World Bank are concerned, the building of a regional school in Podkkraj is to be completed in 2012. And according to what I was talking about about public-private partnership, in the case of Slavonski Brod, we have requirements for the construction of Mali Paris and Brodo vinogorje so that it is included in the catalogue of 338 projects that can be financed by a model of public-private partnership, but I would like to remind you that the counties and cities are founders of primary and secondary schools and that a model of public-private partnership can be launched according to them. The amendment is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4025	Thank you very much. On behalf of the amendment promoter, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4026	I wouldn't be surprised, Mr. Minister, that both the government and the budget bring public-private partnerships so that someone participates in a little of these, at least in expenditures. But it's interesting that here we see now, for the first time I hear it, I may be uninformed enough to make schools a public-private partnership. That's the first I've heard of it, and I don't know if any of the agents know it. But this school, which is listed in the programme, is a school in Podkkraj, namely that school in Podkkraj, is building on the foundation of the money that was achieved by the 2009 HDZ amendment, which even accepted by the former HDZ government. This time you do not accept any of the projects we have proposed in school construction, or in the construction of sports halls so that children from Little Paris in Slavonski Brod cross the track and go to their school "Antun Mihanović", and if someone is interested in building a public-private partnership school, there may be some tycoon in Little Paris to build that school. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4027	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment under regular number 51. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. The amendment, under order number 52, was submitted by representative Mr. Franjo Lucic, so I ask the minister to plead with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4028	Thank you, Mr. President. For the same reasons that I have already stated the amendment is not accepted, with the fact that I want to stress that the budget provides funding for project documentation for the construction of the sports hall, and also here all these facilities are in the catalogue for a public-private partnership, which Mr Grubisic is a very well-known model in Europe and functions in a very high quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4029	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4030	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's Mr. Minister, just to say that Požega High School was founded in 1699, 313 years ago. A high school attended by 700 students, a high school that is newly built, which has no sports hall, and imagine now where these students perform physical education and where they can do it in any way. On the other hand, the school in Požega also has its own employees, or professors, who have been training these same children for years and who are without any problems enrolling in high schools whether in Zagreb, Osijek or any other environment. It is not clear to me that in addition to the 240 thousand kunas you have intended for the construction of the main project, which is practically finished, you are expected only the funds, you are unable to secure, and in my amendment I have just asked at least 2 million kuna of some 18 million as much as you would, or 16 how much the total sports hall will cost. I cannot understand that these 2 million kunas represent such a huge problem in this budget, and I have also indicated that we need these funds to begin the construction itself and continue it in the following year. Indeed incomprehensible that we have for various other objects, but when it comes to Požega-Slavon County and again when we talk about Slavonia, then you really cut it off at every step. Why do you do that if we see at the same time that there were funds in other environments for other objects like this object. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4031	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment, the amendment under regular number 52. Who's in? He wasn't accepted, he didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment under order number 53 was submitted by Mr Branko Boxti's representative. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4032	The amendment is not accepted for the reason it is already contained in the Croatian Government's amendments, so it is groundless.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4033	Mr. Representative Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4034	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4035	Thank you. And 54 amendments in line to the HDSSB's representative club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4036	The government does not accept that amendment because funds for such purposes are already planned through K407410 universities and high schools and K621061 maintenance facilities. During the financial year, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will consider the demands of individual universities and make decisions on the use of funds. Also, here we will use a model of public-private partnership. And all those in HDZ who complain they're not objects in the middle where they're insured in the budget ask why they haven't solved these problems in 8 years and now they think we're going to solve everything they've released in a year. ... /The noise in the hall./... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4037	Yeah, yeah, I agree. Please. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4038	When such a public-private partnership entered education, then I would ask if the school campus was also built on a public-private partnership or otherwise. In fact, here in this amendment, I asked only for project documentation, not for building the entire campus. So no city ship has any money for project documentation either. That is why it is not clear to me that a city that is sixth or seventh largest in Croatia and that if you asked every citizen, mostly a young citizen of Slavonski, a younger citizen, to dream of a university in Slavonski Brod, not a university. That's why this was a prerequisite for joining it. Unfortunately, there's no hearing. Or someone's gonna go back to the project, see if there's anyone interested in a public-private partnership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4039	You didn't say, you're asking for a vote, of course. So we'll finish up and then you'll get Mrs. Kosor's word. So, who's for the amendment under regular 54th, please raise your hand. Thank you. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. Ms. Representative and Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Kosor has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4040	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask you on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club to give Minister Jovanovic a reminder of what he has just done by sharing, i.e. reading a letter to representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and foreigners as a whole. It is not entitled to this, nor because of the provisions of the Constitution which clearly state that we are in a system of parliamentary democracy and that ministers and the government as a whole correspond to the Croatian Parliament, and then to representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. This is, of course, another inappropriate statement by Minister Jovanovic, who believes it is logical to share bouquets and members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts when he says they are too old for the Croatian Football Federation and everyone he touches. But that's for another story. Now, please, Mr. President, give a warning to Mr. Minister who in this way does not have the right to communicate with the representatives of any party at the time of the vote on budget and voting or debate on any law in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4041	Thank you very much. Look, I have to give you an explanation under Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of our Croatian Parliament and I must tell you that I did not find it in Article 214 if you find it, you will tell me why I should give the notice. And I'm not sure I can do that to a member of the government. Yeah, I'd rather you didn't have to react. But here's how it is. Thank you very much. No, I said I wasn't happy that you had to lift up, so the board of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So I gave you an answer as far as I'm concerned. So now we're moving on. As for the pension system sector, we have one amendment submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club on a regular basis in 55th, so I would ask Mr. Labour and Pension System Minister Mršić to explain the government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4042	Mr. President, therefore, the Government does not accept the amendment because, at the position of the unemployed, funds are provided for expenditure on unemployment rights under the Employment Intervention Act, and the payment of workers' labour claims is not a right based on unemployment, so this position cannot be charged with the proposed remuneration of workers' claims for KIO Orahovica workers. Persons who stopped working after the bankruptcy of KIO Orahovica entered the Croatian Employment Service records and obtained the right to cash compensation under the Employment Intermediation Act and unemployment rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4043	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative of the Czech Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4044	Because of the existential threat of workers of the former KIO Orahovica ceramic tile factory, in which entire families worked, it is necessary to address their inexplicable situation, rather than their own guilt. If the KIO case had happened accidentally in Varazdin, it would have been likely to have already been resolved, they would have already found some model of financing or collection of workers’ claims. You're boasting that you're a social government, I'm not so sure. You should have shown at least a handful of compassion for those workers. Coming to power, gentlemen, you've taken the hot potato into your own hands. If you cut it evenly, maybe that potato gets cold before and maybe it stays in our hands for the next four years. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4045	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment under regular number 55. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority, so he wasn't accepted. Now we're moving on to the health sector. We have 12 amendments. I'd like a representative of the government, the minister to join us. Thank you very much. Under regular number 56. The amendment was submitted by representatives of Mrs Branko Juričev-Martinčev and Ante Kulusic. Here you are, Mr. Minister Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4046	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, gentlemen representatives. Amendment 5 is unfortunately not accepted, unfortunately because no implementing project has been designed and verified. Namely, as you know the founder of hospitals and counties, the founder and owner of the county where decentralised funds are available for, among other things, the financing of an idea, main and implementation project. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4047	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4048	Mr. Minister, the county is in the process of looking for space for a new hospital, which will be largely financed by the sale of existing facilities and land from the existing hospital, and at the moment we need funds for the development of an idea project as part of the acquisition of a location permit for the construction of a new hospital, and the local authorisation is part of the extradition procedure in order to obtain the land requested by the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4049	Thank you. Please let us be clear about this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment wasn't accepted, because it didn't get the required majority, so we move on to regular number 57. The amendment was submitted by Mr Darko Milinovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4050	The government does not accept the amendment because those funds are in a different position at the exact amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4051	Thank you. It's in second position, funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4052	What other position? What position?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4053	You're an agent. You read the budget, not me. I write it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4054	It is very clear for the payment of loans from the clinical hospital center Zagreb needs at an annual level of around 130 million kuna, and you have predicted 27 million kuna. If it's on the second item, and you're afraid to say I'm going to say, on the Ministry of Finance's item, and we know that the Ministry of Finance is missing 800 million kuna just to repay the loan, so that's how it is and that's real, I would give up on this amendment. The more you predicted this budget with an economic growth of 0.8%. So, according to this, it's also logical to increase the number of employees and to reduce the unemployment rate. I have just suggested that 100 million kuna be taken off from the unemployment benefits because I want to believe that you will succeed and that you will be an economic growth of 0.8% and that you will have a lower unemployment rate. And that's why I suggested that item. And from the Department of Finance's point of view, just not to mention others, there's no 800 million kuna to repay credit actually out of credit obligations. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4055	Thank you very much. Please state who's in favor of the amendment under regular number 57? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. We move on to under the regular number of the 58th Amendment, which was submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4056	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And this amendment is not accepted for reasons because, unfortunately, the founder of the county did not produce or verify the implementation project even though it has decentralised funds. So, the founder of the hospital is a county that has the resources available to finance the development of projects both idea, both main and executive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4057	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4058	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in the last year, the hospital applied with the project to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Therefore, it is a proposal to re-invest the facade of the General County Hospital of Požega and replace the carpentry in terms of improving energy efficiency and saving energy consumption. So the amount is about 3 million kuna and I think the proposal for this item from which it would be taken well thought out because the proposal to take these 3 million kunas from the item of heading A-1006... and energy efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an item of the international co-operation of the fund, which has been increased several hundred times and in this budget for this year in the Energy Efficiency Fund, as many as 15 million kunas. So, that three million kunas from the Energy Efficiency Fund planned for their congress tourism this year are taken to rebuild the facade and replace the carpentry in a county hospital, a county that is very poor and has no means to... for that law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4059	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment under regular number 58. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority and was not accepted. Fifty-nineth is the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4060	And this amendment is unfortunately not accepted. Unfortunately, because it's a complex problem that unfortunately doesn't have a master plan. If you had a master's plan for all hospitals, if we had this moment, and unfortunately we had just started doing it, then you would know very clearly where the clinical hospitals, university hospitals, hospice or outpatient birth homes, and not only in Slavonia, so in Djakova, but also in Dalmatia, Imotski, Makarska and Vrgorac. Therefore, detailed analysis and consideration is given to the overall activity of the outpatient maternity site in Đakov, including spatial and real time distances. Unfortunately, this moment cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4061	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Representative Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4062	Mr. Minister, I thought, at least when I listened to your pre-election campaign of your coalition, that you had already prepared a program when you took over the minister's post that you would immediately begin to realize it. I see you're just thinking about what you're gonna do in the next four years. That's not very good, but here I am handing over this amendment. I come from Djakova and this is one big problem not only for the city of Djakovo but also for a number of municipalities gravitating Djakova. This birthplace is not only important for the city of Djakovo but is even more important for these municipalities that are more distant from Osijek. Over 100,000 people used the services of this birthplace. Some of the settlements used and the children's maternity home are now located more than 70, 80 km away from Osijek's maternity home in the hospital. That's a big problem. As a doctor, you know how early it must be to avoid any unwanted complications. It's practically impossible sometimes. I would ask you as Minister that, in accordance with those promises you made in the past term as opposition deputies, you will act in this direction towards the benefit of the citizens of Djakov and that you will soon, given that I see that you will not adopt this amendment as a government and as a parliamentary majority make certain moves to urgently invest the necessary funds in a student maternity facility to ensure a minimum of safety conditions for both women and newborn children. And that birthplace will be very soon open. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4063	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment under regular number 59. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. Amendment under regular number 60. HDSSB's club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4064	Thank you very much. The government does not accept the amendment because as well as the previous three founders and owner, the county has neither done the implementation nor the project even though it has available decentralised funds for hospices. So, if I may invite you to create projects as soon as possible. This year we are increasing our hospice in Marof, opening up and increasing our hospice in Knin, and remains Pannonian Croatia, so Eastern and Western Slavonia as a problem that might be solved in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4065	Here you go, Agent Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4066	Thank you. I'll call again for your election campaign. I remember in one presentation that you promised to solve this problem, that you then mentioned this problem as one of the major problems of Croatian health care. This is so, especially in Slavonia and Baranja where there is no one hospice, and every day the need for such a form of care for the patient is growing. With this amendment, I've predicted 4 million kunas. This is one small part of the funds because the estimated funds needed to realise this investment are about 45 million kuna and according to this project it is envisaged that 100 patients can be taken care of at one point. I only predicted 4 million kunas. That is enough to start solving papers and projects that are certainly as important as a prerequisite for this investment to be made in the following year. I don't know from which means you'll start in the second half of this year to solve this problem to provide funds for project documentation. You might already know that before summer, there's going to be some kind of budget rebalance. I would like to ask a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4067	Thank you very much. Please, who's for the amendment under regular number 60? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. The amendment, under regular number 61, was submitted by MP Darko Milinovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4068	Amendment number 61. It does not accept that by reducing the security of assets in position A 80 30 05, this would be co-operation with NGOs, citizens' associations and they are a flower of democracy, it would endanger the implementation of multi-annual programmes for the implementation of national strategies and national programmes, such as drug addiction, drug addiction, drug addiction, smoking addiction, the prevention of the spread of HIV infection B and C Hepatitis. On the other hand, all Croatian governments have invested considerable funds in BiH's health infrastructure for the last 15 years in total, as Mr. MP Milinovic knows 73m kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4069	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4070	Thank you, Mr. President. I will remind you of the Constitution and Article 10. Which actually imposes a commitment by the Republic of Croatia to provide special care for Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia and thus also in BiH. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, while the Croats in BiH are truly in one difficult position, we can freely say when they are fighting for their survival when they are fighting to fight for the position of an equally legal constitutional people in BiH, we are sending them a message from the Croatian Parliament, we will not help you and reduce this item by one million kuna. Is that how we send a message to those who were supposed to defend the Republic of Croatia? Are we sending them a message we won't help you more or less at Mostar Hospital, Livn, Home of Health Tomislavgrad, Novi Bilaj, Oresja or a series of projects financed through the government budget of the Republic of Croatia? So when you mentioned co-operation with citizens' associations where this budget raises 100% of the amount of cooperation with citizens' associations, I think it would be good not to raise that item from 2.5 million to 5 million kuna, raise it by 50 to 60%, while these million kunas are directed towards the Croats in BiH. It's important, dear friend, for political purposes. It's not some big asset, but it's also important that I didn't ask for an increase in funds in this amendment but to stay at the same level as last year. And that is why I call upon my colleagues to at least adopt this amendment at that declarative level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4071	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment. Who's for the amendment under regular number 61? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority, so he wasn't accepted. Amendment under order number 62. Representatives Mr Davorin Mlakar and Mrs Martina Banic submitted. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4072	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment, too, 62, is not accepted for the poor reason that Mr. Mlakar, as former minister of administration, is very well known because the funds for the start-up of the hospital are in line with the internationally signed agreement, and it is therefore impossible for the EBRD to accept this amendment at the investment bank for the activities of K 977 000. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4073	Thank you very much. Do you want it? Here you go. Mr. Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4074	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The amendment makes sense that it does not require any additional means to request the redistribution of existing and already pre-determined funds, and that is what we have written in the light of the amendments. In short, I would like to say to the General Hospital Bjelovar the same chance as some other hospitals and hospital facilities that are reconstructed exclusively by public funds without a private partnership, which we have recently heard, so our amendment has requested that what is a component of the Croatian role within the funds to be allocated under your general name in the budget of construction facilities that one part of these funds could be intended for the reconstruction of the part of the hospital complex General Hospital in Bjelovar for emergency reception be nominally predetermined for the General Hospital Bjelovar in order not to happen because the general formulation in the budget ends for use or for the benefit of another hospital in your programmes. So this is not a change of purpose this is just a precision of the purpose that these 20 million we have proposed within the component that goes to the burden of the Republic of Croatia has a specific purpose for General Hospital Bjelovar and not for construction facilities and then ends somewhere else. Please vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4075	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment under regular number 62. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority not accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under the regular number 63rd, which was submitted by representatives of Mrs Branko Juričev Martincevic and Agent Ante Kulušić. It seems to be identical to Amendment 56. But here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4076	An identical amendment in 56, so it's already explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4077	Here you go, Mr. Representative Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4078	Dear Mr. Minister, this is not an amendment identical to Amendment 56 because this would be an amendment related to the magnetic resonance for Sibenik General Hospital for Sibenik-Knin County because from Sibenik-Knin County daily it takes 20 magnetic resonances and people create additional costs by going to Zadar and Split because we all know that waiting lists in Zadar and Split are large. And when you spoke earlier about an idea project to do so in the county, it is known that in 2002, when the state left hospitals to manage the districts of Sibenik-Knin County, the government then left 70 million kuna. And it is also known that in Sibenik-Knin hospital in Sibenik and Knin only last year, the former government and the Ministry of Health invested more than 40 million kunas. I ask you ministers to help the Sibenik hospital with magnetic resonance because it is essential for the citizens of Sibenik-Knin County not to generate additional costs by going to Zadar and Split, and these are the additional costs both for the people and the Ministry of Health. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4079	Thank you very much. Who's for the amendment under regular number 63, please? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. We move on to 64 amendments submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4080	This amendment is also not accepted. Namely, there is a Law on the Protection of Publicities against Infectious Diseases which determines how counties, namely the City of Zagreb, municipalities and cities must ensure the implementation of public protection measures against infectious diseases prescribed by the same law, of course the means for their implementation and, of course, professional supervision of implementation. So unfortunately we can't accept it, otherwise it's a good amendment. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4081	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here you are on behalf of the club of representatives of the applicant for the amendment, Mr. Representative Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4082	The budget is the main political document. It is the programme of a political option, in this case a programme or Plan 21, but it is obvious that it will remain only on the plan which, with 21, turned into plan 25 and that is the only thing citizens will get, 25% of VAT, and units of local self-government will continue to poverty the budget of local self-government and regional self-government. This is precisely why we have addressed this amendment because it is not only about the obligation of local and regional self-government but it is about the obligation of the state because this is about a kind of elemental accident. I am sorry that right now you are here behind the pay phone because I believe that here, instead of you and all the other ministers, you should be Prime Minister and defend as first and budget, but also tell us not to the MPs, and primarily to the MPs, but also to the citizens when the next time he reminds them either before the local elections or before the parliamentary elections, which is why no amendment has now passed the opposition. Not for political reasons, but for the sole reason that this budget is not realistic, it is neither social nor human or developmental. Please welcome the representative of the Government of Mr. Milanovic and tell him to come there in the summer somewhere in Osijek, Đakovo, when he is riding on those mosquitoes and let him, first of all, put his hand in place of the young children and feel what it means to be in Slavonia and Baranja during the summer and to find mosquitoes. Not a single unit of local self-government has the ability to prevent this, so we are asking for the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is, as I recall, once and for all, a certain amount of money, but I would not now consider it an esteemed Mr. Minister of Health. Save your health, but give us the money so that we can preserve the health of the citizens, but also that we live better in Slavonia and Baranja and all of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4083	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I know why I said thank you three times, because time's up for two minutes. ... Then I say thank you, so I don't interrupt, so I say thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right? Please state the amendment to the budget under regular number 64. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under the regular number 65 tabled by representative Mr Darko Milinovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4084	And this amendment, number 65, is not accepted by the Government for a reason, because, for example, by reducing the insurance funds that Mr. MP proposes... The position of the Ministry of Health has been at the position of HZZO either the functioning of the health system financed from other relevant positions. [[You don't understand.]] For example, and specifically, by reducing the position K 618 038 information on the health system, funds intended to maintain implemented IT solutions in primary health care and endangers the development of information so far. Unfortunately, in the last year, as many as 21 million kunas were not realised from that position. And on the other hand, if you reduce particularly expensive medicines as suggested by a Mr. MP from 500 million kuna to 450 million kuna, you might potentially endanger the health of our citizens, just what the previous representative suggested to me to protect my health. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4085	Thank you, too. Mr. Representative Milinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4086	Thank you very much. And you and I, as current health ministers, know that it's not good. Being the biggest loser in the budget is less important, then you'll be another minister. But it's important because 70,000 employees in the health system, but that's less important than the most important thing, that you lost a billion kuna in the budget. The reduced rate of contribution by 2%, which is an additional 2.5 billion kuna, so you lost 3.5 billion kuna at your annual level, and that is what all indicators are saying now will reflect on the availability of health services in the Republic of Croatia. You didn't cut 3% of your pension contributions you promised, and that's less important. You did not reduce the waiting lists because there is a national waiting list today and there is no eye caressing, and it was introduced two years ago, so you did not decrease but increase the waiting list in these two months by 10 to 20%. We come into a situation like three years ago, that the Croatian health system, and now generates new obligations of 100 million kunas only this month, we come into a situation that we will return to 2008 but only after the accumulation of the due debt of 200 million kuna per month. That's why it's not good and you know it and I know it's not good and that there's insufficient funding for the health system. I wanted to help and I did not touch items from other ministries but to redistribute within your own ministry item in this position so that Croatian citizens would have available health care services and that actually the level of health care in the Republic of Croatia would be higher. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4087	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment under the regular number 65 submitted by Mr. Representative Darko Milinovic. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under regular number 66, which was also submitted by MP Darko Milinovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4088	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment is not accepted by the government because the reduction of insurance funds in HZZO positions proposed by Mr. MP Milinovic could potentially compromise the health system financed by the relative position, such as treatment abroad. If we didn't have equipment today that's been in boxes for three years, if it were more rational to get CT and magnets, then today, there would be fewer of our citizens who would be treated abroad. If the centres of excellence had developed, if the equipment had been more rationally supplied, if it had been more rational, more efficient and efficient investment in human resources, then the opposition would not have been needed, but all 55 million kunas which unfortunately, unfortunately, due to the consequences would have to be invested abroad in Croatia. Yes, of course. In accordance with the European Union Directive, it is likely that from October 2013. Croatian health care received a whole series of citizens from neighbouring countries and thus introduced a new position, which is an increase in income at the position of HZZO thanks to the vision of the Croatian health system. That's why we're doing the master plan, because he's gone. We have to make it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4089	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. And on the word of the applicant, the honourable representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4090	Mr. President, I have to say again. Not good, you all said it wasn't good to cut some items, but you didn't say the key thing. It is not good to reduce the item for the traineeship of health care professionals by almost 30% from 80 to 60 million kuna. You probably know that in, and you should and probably know that in the Republic of Croatia, all health professions are legally regulated, and in this way we have created a good basis for the investment and progress of these professions in the health system. We also have a new programme of specialist education, not only of doctors, but also of dentists and nurses. When you talk about investing in the resources of the master plan there's a health ministry. They may have hidden it from you, so they don't show it to you, but it exists and it's brought in. We have invested between 170 and 200 million kunas in paid traineeship over the past three years in times of crisis and recession. At the annual level, we have financed 1,300 people who have been doing internships, and in this way we send them a message so we will no longer pay for the traineeship of 1,300 people but for 850 to 900. You know as well as I do, that the European Union average is around 350 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants. We're below the average 276 doctors on 100,000 residents. So, there are 3,000 doctors missing. Same as the nurses. The average is around 500, and the European average is 700 and there are about 10,000 nurses missing. And in this way we send a message we will no longer invest in you, we will no longer insist on both the paid traineeship and the training in the health system. And that's why I suggested that this item remain the same as at the level of last year. I think this is the essence of the need of the Croatian health system due to the chronic lack of doctors and nurses in the Republic of Croatia. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4091	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask who's for amendment number 66 of the respected representative Darko Milinovic. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to amendment number 67 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment number 67. The government does not accept, unfortunately it does not accept because otherwise the proposed amendment should raise the medical fertilisation from 40 million kuna to 50 million kuna. The emphasis, of course, is regrettable because the NPO Act as it was imagined in 2004 never saw the day. And when I emphasized 2004, so during the year 2000. I welcome this initiative and I am convinced that in 14 days you will welcome the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, not only will 40 million kuna be proposed, but thanks to your initiative, Mr. Representative from the budget reserve, we will ask the prime minister to raise these 40 million kunas to 80, 100 million kuna. But of course, when the Law on Medical Aided Insemination sees the light of day by respecting three principles: the principle of choice, respecting the principle of justice and respecting the principle of preserving a woman. So unfortunately the amendment can't be accepted right now, but we're standing on you, knocking on the open door. I see you're already in advance of the NPO Act. Therefore, the funds will certainly come from the budget reserve. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4093	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4094	For you, life begins with the birth of a child and I cry first. Not for me. And there are many citizens of the Republic of Croatia who think life begins with conception. I'm one of them. I have as much right as you have the right to believe that the life of a child or that human life begins with the first cry. Forbidden medical insemination in Croatia, we are the only country in the world where you cannot go to medical insemination. We organize buses and trains for Slovenia and other countries in the environment and look wonders. This most rigid law, 230 children, was born more than a law that was worth or illegal before that. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, we have over 1,000 children. 720 were born under the old law, and under the new law for the first time in the Republic of Croatia we have 1,000 children born through medical fertilisation procedures. And this is your message that no matter what law you're about to see, which we haven't seen yet. This is your message to these couples, and don't forget that we, we raised this item from 10 to 40 million kuna, and you're reducing it by 5 million kuna. This is your message that all she cared about in pre-election time was actually a fake. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4095	Thank you very much. Who is the number 67th Honored representative of Darko Milinovic to raise his hand. Thank you very much. I realize he didn't get the necessary majority, he didn't pass. We move to Position 102 of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. Amendment number 68th Honored Representative Darko Milinovic. Your Honors Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the Government does not accept this amendment, because the planned funds are sufficient for the settlement of the obligations of the institutions of social care created by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and health institutions, the funds for that purpose, have been planned under the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4097	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4098	The distinguished vice-presidents of the Croatian government were also defined in those items two of which you spoke in the previous budget in this way. I'm getting some of the letters you received when you were in opposition, so that's why I submitted this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4099	Thank you very much. Who is the number 68th Honored Representative Darko Milinovic for amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority, he didn't pass. We move on to Amendment 69 of the same representative of the respected Dark Milinovic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4100	The amendment is not accepted because during 2011, a series of programmes related to the protection of victims of domestic violence in the Republic of Croatia have been successfully implemented in 2011 with the resources available for 2 million and 427 thousand 238 kuna. These programmes include the work of shelters for women and children victims of domestic violence. Also with the amount of resources available, the second phase of the research project aimed at monitoring and evaluation of the provision of shelter services for victims of domestic violence was successfully implemented. I would just like to add that, therefore, with all that is done at this time, and the resources allocated to shelters, we must work hard to apply the law that we have passed in this House, which is the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. In fact, there are an extremely large number of police demands to apply measures by the court, which is the distance of abusers from the apartment. Unfortunately, the measure is often not pronounced by the court. It's one of the big problems and we can't change logic all the time, which is that the abuser leaves the apartment without being victims of violence. Therefore, this is what should be our one strategy and our policy, and this is finally the application of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4101	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Darko Milinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to be extremely well-intentioned. It's not good, maybe from the level of the message, and that actually led me when I proposed this amendment to reduce the protection of victims of domestic violence by a million kunas. I think it's just not good at the level of the message, and it's not big funds, so it would also be from the level of the message if it had to, and then, of course, financially send a clear message. And unfortunately, we've also seen from the statistics that, unfortunately, it's domestic violence on the rise, so to speak. Well, here's my intention was extremely well-intentioned, especially because I felt that these million kunas could be found from this level of 50 million kuna where they increased by administration and management. So, for 50 million kunas more than in the last budget. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4103	Thank you very much. I am voting on amendments to the 69th Honored Representative Darko Milinovic. Who's in? The amendment did not receive the required majority, it was not accepted. We move on to Amendment 70 of Honored Representative Darko Milinovic. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4104	The amendment is not accepted because the funds for this purpose are planned from revenue for specific purposes. Namely, it is about the revenues from gambling that can be made above the amounts set out in the state budget, but to the amount of funds paid or transferred.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4105	Does the Honorable Representative want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4106	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4107	Thank you very much. We move on to amendment number 71 of Honored Representative Darko Milinovic. Your Honor, Minister, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4108	The amendment is not accepted because the new Household Act abolished the foster care for family fostering, which will result in savings that will focus on the development of foster care with the aim of deinstitutionalising users.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4109	Your Honor, can I help you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4110	71?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4111	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4112	Well, with the new law in force, I hope that it will not be greatly changed that law is not true what we read in the paper that this law has not received the support of the profession. He also got the support of the profession and the support of the union. That's 71, right? But also this new law that speaks of deinstitutionalization. So, I'm asking a question, and it's not good from the level of the message, and I'm asking if I don't know some abandoned child better to raise, to live in an institution or a foster family? In this way we draw closer to him what he does not have, the closer we can get to parental care and some kind of warmth of a foster home in which he should grow up and live and grow for a happier future. Well, here's what I've been proposing from that level is a reduction in administration funds, and I think that would be a good thing. And I'm really surprised you didn't accept this amendment and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4113	Thank you very much. Who's for Amendment No. The 71st Honored Representative, Darko Milinovic, raise his hand and declare himself. Thank you very much. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. We move on to Amendment 72 of Honored Representative Darko Milinovic. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4114	The amendment is not accepted because the funds for this purpose are planned and assessed by following the trends of monthly payments over a long period of time. Namely, this is about the right to temporary child restraint and we will in the next period change some parts of the family law in the sense that we give a better position and stronger state attorneyship which actually has some procedural problems in cases when it comes to the collection of those funds from irresponsible parents, instead of which the state has paid child support. So we think that one part of the funds will also be returned to the state budget, i.e. to taxpayers, who at this time through this mechanism are paying temporary funds for those children whose irresponsible parents do not pay child support.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4115	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4116	You said yourself, we think, so it's not safe. I wanted to make sure through this amendment that, and in the Republic of Croatia there will be about 30 to 40 thousand children for whom parents do not pay child support. And you told the savings, so it's one option and it stays at the level of opportunity and at the level of fulfillment. You said we hope so. For 2011 alimony through this vision was received by 4000 and 62 children. And precisely because it wouldn't be good to hope or to rationalize and we might be able to get enough funds for this kind of compensation I suggested that amendment to be safe, not to hope. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4117	Thank you very much. Please state who is for amendment number 72, the esteemed representative of Darko Milnovic? I'm realizing he didn't get the necessary majority, he wasn't accepted. Moving to Amendment 73. HDSSB's club. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, you can show yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4118	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the social care and social care activities network currently do not provide for the need for new capacity to accommodate older and powerless persons in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, since they meet the needs of welfare centres in the current network and existing capacities. I can only say that at this point we have included 7 projects in the field of social care for candidates for these investments that go through a public private partnership. So here I once again say in the existing network if we see that there are any needs we might be able to plan through a public private partnership next year and the needs of an additional one in Osijek-Baranja County.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4119	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Minister. Namely, the network is what it is, but we have put this amendment in place because real life is needed for the territory of the town of Našice and the surrounding municipalities. The fact is, and we tried to do it in the term of the last government also to realize unfortunately we failed. We hoped to be able to realize this now because in the territory of the town of Nasic, Nasice is the only city and surrounding municipality that does not have such an institution. And there is a great need for about a hundred people who are crying for accommodation, there are 50 more people in the area of the town of Našica and surrounding municipalities who need him in the house. And whoever realises this problem, be assured it will not be a political point, will remain remembered both in the territory of the town of Nasic and all surrounding municipalities. I am sorry that even the previous government had no understanding of this, I am sorry that this amendment is now not accepted again. Will he be able to be resolved through a public private partnership? I doubt it. We're going to have to solve it the way we've solved all the other problems. The project was the town of Nashe has secured the space we went together and while HDZ was in power, we hoped there would be understanding because the mayor of the HDZ ranks unfortunately we encountered a refusal, we wanted to partner and county and the city and state to participate in this. The project is worth 35 million kunas, we've asked 2 million kunas to start making an idea project and obtaining a building permit. So I'm appealing, but I think it can change because this is a big need. I demand a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4121	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 73. HDSSB's club. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you very much. I realize the amendment didn't get the necessary majority and it didn't go away. Moving to Amendment 74. Honorable representative of Darko Milinovic. Please honor the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4122	The amendment is not accepted. The funds provided in this part of the budget are sufficient because during the year we already entered into the talks we will most likely take care of children through other models of deinstitutionalisation and in agreement with the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4123	Dear Representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm probably looking again, but I don't see Mayor Koprivnica of Assembly Representative Mrsic. I was planning this project with him, and it is very clear that these 120,000 kunas are not enough to finance the rental of this space. And it's not really about the great means of 300 thousand kuna. Well, you could have at least for the sake of a message from the Croatian public that you would accept and some of the opposition's amendments could have accepted that amendment worth 300 thousand kuna, is it really not about large funds? The more we cooperated well with the local community and showed that we were interested in social care and interests of this kind above the narrow interests of party interests. And that's why I'm asking for a vote, and maybe the vice president changes his mind about these 300 thousand kunas really isn't much, and they're not enough to rent just for renting these 120,000 kunas. You know that and I know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4125	Thank you very much. Please state by raising your hand who is for amendment number 74 of the respected representative Darko Milinovic? Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm realizing he didn't get the necessary majority he didn't pass. We are moving on to amendment number 75 of the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government and the Minister, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4126	The explanation is the same as on the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4127	Your Honor, you want to be obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm disappointed in any case because I remember a very good time, while the current Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister were eager to advocate an institutional form and care primarily for those who need to see each other today, who is really not good. Of course, I am also disappointed with this part of being in a position of social care as well as reduced funds for nearly 60 million kunas. And I want to warn you that surely in these circumstances, when the number of unemployed is growing, we testify daily when farmers are on their knees that there will be no more than 60 million kunas, but there will be more. I'm asking for a vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4129	Thank you very much. By raising our hands, please state who is for amendment number 75 of Honored Representative Stephen Milinkovic? Thank you very much. I'm confirming that he hasn't received the required majority has not been accepted. We move on to amendment number 76 of the respected representative of Branko Box. The Department of Justice is right. Dear Deputy Minister, you may be able to show yourself about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Compared to the amendment of the respected Branko Box, the Government does not accept the proposal. Not because the adaptations and equipment of the Municipality Court building in Benkovac will not be executed but because the funds provided for this position will be secured not from the budget but from the IPA 2011 project preparation of the contract is under way. The SAF and the EU commission approve the project and we will start to adapt the municipal court building in Benkovac at the end of next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4131	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy. I explained the reason why I submit the amendment, and these are inhumane conditions for work. During the summer the temperature in this court was 40 degrees Celsius, and 15 days ago in the courtrooms the temperature was +7 degrees heated, and in the halls was thick below zero, with court officials not being able to use water for 10 days due to freezing pipes. Just so you know what kind of conditions people work under. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4133	Thank you very much. Please state by raising our hands on this amendment proposal. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority, so he wasn't accepted. Thank you very much. And we still have the amendment under regular number 49 that was filed by the HDSSB's Representatives' Club. I ask the Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning to join us and declare the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4134	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The government cannot accept this amendment. In fact, it is an activity transferred from part of the budget of the Ministry of Finance to part of the budget of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning in the draft budget for 2012. Any lack of funds on the activity in question will be resolved during the financial year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4136	Thank you, Mr. President. I must warn of the major problems that the amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction not only in the area of Slavonia and Baranja, but in all of Croatia, what problems the units of local and regional self-government have fallen into. According to the law, since three years ago, units of local and regional self-government had to be taken over by workers who had been in state administrations until then, and by taking over these employees, they were said to provide funds for their salaries, as there were no funds in the cities and county budgets. So we had to make commitments and so far the funds have been paid, not in full amount at the level of 2008 which was enough only for about 50% of the total needs for these funds. And now, here I am talking only about the area of Osijek-Baranja County, you're reducing from 47 million kuna to how long it took to keep the current level to 12 million. For 35 million kuna, you take it off. There are no funds for the salaries of these employees. Therefore, this is another example of what decentralisation looks like in the Croatian way. Decentralisation of liabilities and decentralisation of funds is out of the question. And we have absurdities, we decentralize obligations, and we centralize funds. That's not good. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4137	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the amendment under regular number 49 submitted by the HDSSB club. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you very much. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. Thank you very much. We've come to terms with the amendments. We can now move to a vote on the National Budget Proposal. Noting that Please, nice. [[The intruder understands one.]] Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4138	Thank you. In accordance with Article 223a, on behalf of the HDSSB representative club, I am looking for a 15-minute break, since we, remember when the budget was proposed, said HDZ clubs, if I remember correctly and the Croatian Labourers' clubs said they would be against the budget, we said that we will only be made clear once we know what the situation is with our amendments. So I'd like to request a 15-minute recess so that we can consult within the club and take our final positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4139	Thank you very much. You have a break of 10 minutes, so we'll be back on 14.35. Thank you very much. I would like you to gather in as large a number as possible and ask for it, and on behalf of the HDSSB Club, because he has requested a break, we will be informed by the club president, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4141	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, all I'm going to say is that this is the budget we expected and that we are disappointed and that he is bad for Croatia and that he is harmful. This is a sentence made by Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Milanovic here in the Croatian Parliament during the debate on the 2011 State Budget Proposal. Today we will vote on the State Budget 2012 proposal This is your draft budget and how you describe it as soon as possible. Believe it or not, for us in HDSSB exactly your words from 15 months ago. I will only say that we expected this budget and that we were disappointed and that it is bad for Croatia and that it is protracted especially for Slavonia and Baranja, and so we hoped it would not be, so we hoped that you would be different, and not just another Croatian government because 64 days ago when you became president of the Croatian government, Mr. Prime Minister, I am sorry that there is no, here in front of all of us, in front of the Croatian public, is not good. To this Slavonia, I promise our Slavonia special care. You said and you hold me to the word of your colleagues and colleagues. I recalled the prime minister's words four days ago when the proposal for this budget was presented, and four days ago something else was said. There's still room for some kind of conversation. It has been said that you can still hold our word. It's been said and you'll see what our real intentions are. And here we see, unfortunately today, what are the real intentions when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja. I don't know if you're aware of the ruling majority of what you've done to Slavonia and Baranja with this distribution of putting out of the crisis. With this relationship, it is obvious that there is no luck for Slavonia and Baranja neither from HDZ nor from now on by the SDP authorities. Unfortunately, it turns out you're no different than just another government. Second, but with the same relationship with Slavonia and Baranja. But we won't give up. We never gave up, so we're not gonna give up now. We have not strayed before anyone, nor those who have trodden on our plains, but nor those who make us believe in the transfiguration of words, that they may keep us, and that they may trample us with works. The HDSSB has prepared and invested 291 amendments to the total value of more than 10 and a half billion kuna in the last 7 years from 2005 to this year. And this year we've made amendments. We had them ready for 85, but we're aware of the crisis giving up 44 and we've all been denied. This was done by the HDZ government, but unfortunately this is now being done by your SDPs or the Kukuriku Government. So what's the difference? Nothing, she's not here. Except HDZ was recklessly open, and you are more perfidious and sweeter, but equally insensitive to the problems of people in Slavonia and Baranja. But every conversion before or after shows its true face. Remember the word of Lava Tolstoy in Anna Karen's. Turning into anything can fool the most clever, discreet man, but the most borderline child recognizes him no matter how skillful this conversion hides and turns away from him. And our people say masks are down. You also said there would be no discrimination. We have seen what this looks like on the example of Slavonia and Baranja. For example, Vukovar-Srijem County receives 30.3% of the funds, which is more than 2 million kunas less aid to local self-government units, and the Varazdin County 162% compared to last year, Sisak-Moslavina 155%. This is just one example of the relationship to Slavonia and Baranja. We didn't expect you to accept all our amendments, but we didn't expect you to refuse all the amendments. You've sent a bad message in a sense you're no different than the others. We wanted to believe that he could hold you to his word and that for the Prime Minister's words to Slavonia, I promise our Slavonia special care. Given the particular concern you have shown with this budget towards Slavonia and Baranja, the HDSSB Club will not accept this National Budget Proposal. And in the end, I'd like to order and send a message to everyone. In the future, do not make it easy to make promises, especially those you know you do not intend to keep. Because there's this folk saying, "Man's holding his word and the ox's for horns." Nobody needs that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4142	Thank you very much. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure or the club? Here you go. What? No, no, no. Maybe you're looking for a break or something?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4144	You can't get the word then. No, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4145	How can we not win?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4146	You can't pollemize now, you can't say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4147	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4148	You can't get on behalf of the club word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4149	How could she not?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4150	You didn't ask for a break, you can't get on behalf of the club word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4151	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mr. President, I am looking for a five-minute break to consult on a topic that is also of interest to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4152	I'd like to ask the president of the club that wants to take a break or not, representing the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4153	Mr. President, yes, two three minutes can.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4154	Then you have to look for a 10-minute break, because it's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Here's a 10-minute break from the HDZ Club. I suggest we stay in the hall because I think the consultations will be over soon so we can move on. and the presidents of the HDZ club who has conducted the consultations with its club members in an express way. [[Home is not saved.]] If you agree, at least it hasn't been 10 minutes that I'm asking for a consensus to proceed before 10 minutes are up. Do you agree? Thank you. Ms. President of the HDZ Club, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mrs. Kosor, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4156	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Glavak asked here's an opportunity to make a proposal that came to us too at the HDZ Representatives Club but I suppose all clubs too because it's so named from so-called so-called so-called club. "The newsrooms." Therefore, the presence of photographers as it has always been at the time of the national budget is required in order for the public to have a complete picture of what we are, how we are and how we voted. And this is simply our wish to help make the budget completely public and transparent. And I would certainly like to say in the end that we would be glad that here at the moment of the vote on the Croatian State Budget here the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, is present so that perhaps once again we can ask him about the peasant protests and the problem with the dairy industry. But since he's gone, then we'll vote without him. Mr. President, the proposal comes from the press... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4157	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that that proposal didn't come to me because I think it was my turn. Well, I'm afraid now I won't be able to accept this proposal, and I won't accept this proposal because I think there's a common way of communicating and there's still a way to communicate, so we're going to keep working. So, I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. I note, before we engage electronically, and we vote that our decision requires the majority of the total number of MPs, so at least 76 MPs and MPs should vote because that is how Article 91(2) provides. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you very much. I find that most votes with 82 votes in favour, 41 against and 1 abstention and that we have brought the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014 in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. In accordance with Article 24. The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries. Point 1. Proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. The debate on the text of the proposal is over. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now please vote manually. Who is in favour of the proposal to decide pursuant to Article 166. Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 83 for, 37 against, 4 abstentions, have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. Here you are, Mr. Linic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4159	Mr President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues in the proposal of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2012 in the second specific part of the Government's proposal is to reduce the amount of investment in the reconstruction and development of water supply at the position of other expenditures and capital aids by 30 million, while increasing the water supply of Croatia's Zagorje and also the point of supply of the Eastern Slavonia regional water supply. Explanation – increases resources for the water supply of Croatian Zagorje and the regional waterway of eastern Slavonia due to the preparation of technical documentation and obtaining all necessary permits for the construction of these two regional waterways, which will speed up the dynamics of works and increase the contribution of the population to the water supply system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4160	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a debate. I note, only representatives of representatives' clubs can participate in the debate. Here you go, Agent Vinkovic, I assume, on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4161	I must observe Mr. Minister and Mr. President of the Parliament that we just had an amendment that was related to the master's regional water supply in the Slavonia area. Now the government is proposing the same amendment with smaller funds, and I don't understand why the amendment proposed by the HDSB club was rejected? This is how we're going to vote for this amendment, but this is throwing sand in the eyes. Or better said, putting a head in the sand without seeing the problems that are facing Slavonia today and which will suffer for such a bad position for the next year, which put the citizens of that part of Croatia in another class and in the second row. And I don't want to go home today not to Eastern Slavonia, but to Slavonia and Baranja and West Srijem and tell all those citizens this Croatian budget, the 2012 budget put you all in second row together. All units of local self-government and all units of regional self-government. And apparently these citizens will stop and believe in false promises that were eight years old and now that will be four years than they will finally have to take fate into their own hands and vote for their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4162	Thank you. You want to be obvious? Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4163	We are talking about the Government's proposal through the amendment to the draft financial plan of the Croatian Waters, according to which they are part of the full budget. Your proposal was on a projection within the Ministry as regards the central state, so it was a reason that in some way as you say, in a reduced amount, we corrected the specific part of the budget, which is the plan of the Croatian Waters, not through the expenditures of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4164	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Who's in? Manually, please. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the 91 votes in favour of, 3 against, 30 abstentions have been accepted by the government's amendment. The bench is divided into a review of the other amendments submitted. I would ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendment submitted. Mr. Tihomir Jakovina Minister, a member of the government. Here you go. Amendment number 1 was submitted by MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4165	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment on the grounds that funds for capital expenditure and transfers in the area of protection against the harmful effects of water and irrigation of the Adriatic water area are intended for already agreed flood defence projects in the areas affected by the flood in 2010 Metkovic and surrounding areas. The funds of 4 million 420 thousand kuna are intended for the restoration of buildings for a detailed... draining and irrigation in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County and are sufficient for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4166	Thank you very much. Appreciation of MP Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4167	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. For example, in this item where funds are intended for the restoration of deforestation and irrigation melioration structures, we ask for this item to be increased by 4 million 420 thousand in order to make the vote of 10 million kuna that was sufficient to make the melioration facilities possible. The 3rd and 4th rows of sewers have been arranged and prepared by the end of the year as the decisions of the Croatian government and Croatian waters indicate that they will take over the counties for further maintenance. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4168	Thank you very much. I am voting on the amendments of MP Josip Djakic. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. We are also moving on to the amendment to representative Josip Djakic marked by regular number 2. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4169	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept amendments for the reasons that, in accordance with the Act on the financing of the water economy, the funds for the construction of water-resistance systems are provided for water-use compensation, while water-protection facilities are being built in accordance with the same law, the means of water-related contribution and water-tightening compensation. Therefore, it is not lawfully permitted because the funds intended to build water protection facilities are re-designed for the construction of water supply systems. The construction and dynamics of the financing of works will depend on the degree of preparation of the investment technical documentation and the building permits issued for that project and on the budget's resources are provided and sufficient accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4170	Thank you. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The funds in that position aren't enough. Given that the supply system... Virovitica-Podravska County, which is currently under way and for which all building permits have been issued for which works are under way, this sum is not sufficient and it is necessary to increase at least by two million kunas in order to achieve in this year what is done by both the contract and agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture and other ministries involved in the water supplying regional water supply system of Virovitica-Podravska County and the contract annex that we have already done only in Croatia in order to enable the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be built with less intensity by 2015. These resources will not be sufficient for this to be completed within the specified and contractual period. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4172	Thank you. Please state about Mr. Josip Djakic's amendment marked by regular number 2. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment didn't get the necessary majority. He's not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by representatives Mr Branko Bačić and Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Please, Ministers, explain the government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4173	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept amendments for the reason that the construction, dynamics of the financing of works depend on the degree of preparation of the investment technical documentation and the resulting building permits for that project. The funds that are planned are in line and sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4174	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4175	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Regional water... Peljesac-Korčula-Lastovo-Mljet provides 1/3 of the population of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and this water line was started by construction 38 years ago, and a investment programme was adopted a couple of years ago and an agreement was signed between the Croatian waters and the county of Dubrovnik-Neretva and local self-government units through which this water line was passed on the completion of the system. Meanwhile, certain facilities and administrative documentation were built and a building permit was issued which you say is insufficient is not correct. There is documentation that would allow this year if our amendment was accepted to supply the island of Lastovo with water and that the island of Mljet could be connected to the system by year. Therefore, only 5 million kunas that should be provided by Croatian waters despite the funds provided by local self-government and county units of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska would allow the economic recovery of our two remotest islands. Therefore, I see no reason why the Government could not provide Croatian water with only 5 million kunas so that the island of Lastovo can be supplied with water this year, and the next year the island of Mljet. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4176	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment of Mr. Branko Bačić and Mr. Frana Matušić. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are going to the last amendment from this part, which is the amendment of Mr. Josip Djakic's representative. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4177	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the reason that all irrigation systems are built and so is the system... funding from state budget and regional administration and self-government funds. [[You don't understand.]] For the construction of a irrigation system, no dedicated compensation is provided in accordance with the Water Economy Financing Act and therefore no legal means are allowed for the construction of water supply systems for the use of water redesigned for the construction of irrigation systems. Those funds will be sufficient to carry out the planned work, given the dynamics of the implementation of the work in 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4178	Thank you very much. Representative Mr. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4179	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, the funds won't be enough since you took the contract in your hands saying it would be preserved unless the funds were discovered that the works would be preserved. The works started in 6th month 2011 and are ongoing. The contractors, if they don't have the means to secure, will interrupt the works and close the conservation. We asked that at least 20 million kuna be in that position so that the intensity that would enable all year-round works to create this project that refers to the unique in Croatia, which co-finances the county with 20% and the ministry because no other one is co-financed by regional administration, of 1280 hectares, I am sure that this is how you want to stop this project that will surely be preserved and will never be launched again. This does not improve Croatian agriculture, so it does not become competitive in the Croatian and European markets, so projects are stopped, and jobs are taken by those who legally received jobs in the competition on the project, which was due to be completed by 2013. So for everything that's going to happen on the project... This unique pilot project, which has now been launched in Virovitica-Podravska County, is carried out by this government, as well as by you, Mr. Ministers who have not provided the funds, but have reduced by 56.52% and this commendable project that is under way, to be completed so that farmers of Virovitica-Podravska County have a quality product for both Croatia and the European market. [[You don't understand.]] It's your responsibility. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4180	Thank you very much. Please let us be clear about this amendment. Who is the amendment of Mr Josip Djakic's representative marked number 4? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority, so he wasn't accepted. Here's what we've done with these amendments. Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2012 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters and projections for 2013 and 2014. I'm asking us to do it electronically, so I'm asking that we get involved first and vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4181	We can only briefly on behalf of the club one explanation should.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4182	No, no, unfortunately he can't. Yeah, he can't. [[Intruder: about this.]] I've closed the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4183	I think there's been a mistake in the procedure, that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4184	We continue with the vote. I find that, most of the votes, 81 for, 29 against, 7 abstentions made by the Decision on granting consent to the 2012 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters and projections for 2013 and 2014 in the text proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. Second, the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections. The debate is over. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections. Please engage and please vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 84 for, 37 against, 4 abstentions, have been taken by the decision on granting consent to the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Three, Proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. The bench is divided subject of the amendment. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. We'll take it in a row. Mr. Zdenko Antišić on behalf of the government. Amendment 1 was submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The proposed reduction of resources at AN1003 can not be accepted on a regular basis as it would seriously endanger the safety of the transport service and the network of public roads. Project documentation for the south bypass of Nova Gradiška is under way. After obtaining a building permit, consideration will be given to the possibility of including the project in the construction and maintenance plan of public roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4186	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4187	We didn't expect a different explanation that was here, but by the way, I don't know which time was actually a groundless treasure said. On 20 September 2005, a decision was taken to build a southern bypass around Nova Gradiška. Since then, she's been here almost seven years. Well, first of all, it's not true that the paperwork isn't finished projectual, it's over, but there's no obvious your will to build it. There is also the mayor of Nova Gradiška who can say even more about it, and I expect him to raise his hand for the southern bypass around Nova Gradiška. I'm looking for a vote. Isn't that right, Mr. Vukovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4188	Thank you. Please state the amendment to HDSSB's representative club number one. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. We move on to Amendment 2. The same club of representatives of the HDSSB. Mr. Antisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted by the Government with the following explanation. This traffic direction is not in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads but of the County Road Administration of Vukovar-Srijem County.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4190	Thank you very much. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4191	In the budget and Croatian roads, as well as in the Croatian State budget there are many roads appointed, and they are not state roads, therefore that will be built and from either the budget of the state budget, whether from the budget of the Croatian roads. Therefore, this explanation was inconclusive. And clearly as soon as he wears the name of the Shocking Highway, he won't pass. Therefore, everything is clear to us as counterpart Buric told us in his presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4192	Let us be clear on amendment number two. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, it was not accepted. We're moving on to amendment number three. It's an amendment to the HDSSB Representatives Club. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted with reasons. In this year, the completion of the first phase of the construction of the eastern Vinkovac bypass is envisaged, and the completion of the construction of the project documentation and the execution of the building permit, as well as the resolution of the property-legal relations for the second phase of construction. The proposed reduction in the position you propose (a) 1003 regular maintenance would have a serious impact on the safety of the transport service of the state road network.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4194	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4195	So you should know that this is about building an eastern bypass around Vinkovci and asking for 30 million kuna. Well, let the gentlemen of the Croatian Roads scrape the bridge on Bosut as well as the one on the Koran which is not there, there are only corn on one side and on the other as in the Carlova County the famous Vukelić bridge. So you built a bridge on Bosut without access to the road. Well, here's to us Corn Slavonia, you guys do piccigins on the Bacvices, organize a competition there. And finance it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4196	Thank you. Please let us be clear about this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority, so he wasn't accepted. And the amendment of Ms. Ivanka Roksandić's representative. Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted by the Government with the following explanation. Project documentation has been completed and the construction of the Zagreb road in Sisak is planned this year under the construction and reconstruction programmes of fast roads. The proposed reduction in the A 1003 position that you mention – Regular maintenance would have a serious impact on the safety of the transport service of state road networks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4198	Thank you. Representative Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4199	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. If you planned it then it should have been somewhere and visible at least in the light of this financial plan. But I will say that it is working, that the Croatian roads have really worked out project documentation so far, that Zagreb road is one very narrow throat to enter the town of Sisak and is located on the busiest road in Croatia. This is the road Zagreb – Sisak. And to finish with the Sisak highway – Zagreb or Zagreb – Sisak, and I hope it will end because we had all the promises and in 2000 we didn't start it. Now that we've started it, I expect it will reach Sisak and continue to Moscenica and join us on a future road towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it really doesn't have to start this year, but it has to be finished already, well finalized because this project is the guarantee that Siseni will finally enter his city by not getting through a narrow bridge, but that it will really be a good date here on the current and future highway that goes to the town of Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4200	Now we'll get to the vote first, and then we'll hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. So I put to vote the proposal for this amendment, that is, the amendment. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the necessary majority, it was not accepted, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure was pointed out by Mr Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4201	Mr. President, I'm reporting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or I wanted to ask for an explanation. He's been injured, I mean article 163 which, by the way, says that every MP has the right to submit an amendment and that he enters the procedure. I see here in the materials of two amendments Mr. Shakespeare. I know Mr. Shakespeare very well. It's the attorney with the longest internship in this House, admit the lawyer, and I don't believe he can write the amendment. And here I see in the materials that professional services have written that the amendment is incorrect and that it is not in accordance with the law, so I would ask you to explain why it is so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4202	Do you doubt the professional service of the Parliament? No, no. There's no controversy. I just asked it as a question, because Mr. Vice President Shakespeare, as far as I know, has withdrawn those two amendments, and yet you have expressed your suspicion. Thank you. Please, Mr. Antisic, explain the government's position against the amendment of MP Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept the amendment with reason. The development of environmental impact studies and the identification of the route for that direction is under way, and there are still no assumptions for the start of construction. The proposed reduction of resources in position A 1003 – Regular maintenance would have a serious impact on the safety of the transport service of state road networks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4204	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4205	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not happy with this answer. I was expecting after the construction of the tunnel of St. Ilija's idea was designed to reconstruct and partially build this road from Zagvozd through Imotski to the border crossing of Vinjani Donji, which revitalises the entire area, 8 imotski municipalities and the city of Imotski, but gives one economic input to the Makarska coast of Brela, Baska Voda, Makarska, the city of Tučepa, Podgora, I am sorry that this amendment is not accepted. Thank you. Please vote yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4206	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. Amendment by Mr Branko Bačić and Mr Frana Matušić. Please plead on behalf of the Government on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted with the explanation that the water pipeline is in the care of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4208	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4209	It is incorrect that this project is located in another item. In fact, I believe you are very embarrassed to reject this project as an island since it is an increase in the resources to build public roads on the islands. Last year, 114.5 million kuna was provided for the construction of state roads on Croatian islands this year, with only 18.4 million kuna and 16% of the funds compared to last year. That says enough, so here are almost 100 million kunas of less funds for Croatian islands enough to talk about your care or rather about your care for the islands. The island of Lastovo, which is the subject of this amendment, actually has one single road in the length of 10.5 km which connects two settlements Ubli and Lastovo and so far in the past years two thirds of the same road has been renovated. And for the remaining 4.3 km, it was necessary to secure these 10 million and 400 thousand kuna. And it is truly amazing, we know that the other amendments would not accept but we believed that these amendments, which are truly a priority, meant survival for Croatian people on Croatian islands, we believed that you would accept them anyway. Unfortunately, however, from your reasoning that is not true and not justified, we see that you simply do not care about what is happening on the islands. With this amendment not being accepted, with the reduction of maritime connections subsidies to Croatian islands and the reduction of the total amount of funds for islands, I think it speaks enough of how you have approached this problem. And one more thing, you will probably refuse the next amendment around the Pelješko Bridge on behalf of the club, etc., and one of your ministers says that the Croatian South considers the island. It says enough how you approach the Croatian south which has no highways or railways, which you leave this way in isolation, which you expect to bring to you in tourist promotion and in the tourist season economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4210	Please state the amendment of Mr. Bačić and Mr. Matusic's representative. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. The amendment has not been accepted, it does not have the required majority. And the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. I ask Mr Antisic to explain the government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted with the following explanation – at this point not all assumptions for the construction of the bridge are created, i.e. all open issues that were raised during the construction process are to be resolved. This relates first of all to the resolution of the Arbitrage dispute between the Croatian Roads and business associations and the company Construction Engineering Split, Viaduct Zagreb, the Low Construction Hydropower Zagreb that performs the works and the addition of project documentation which includes possible optimization of the project in financial terms. After seeing the complete problem, a decision will be taken to continue the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4212	Thank you very much. Mr. Baric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4213	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's not true, Mr. Deputy Minister, what you've brought out now. But first of all, the bridge that connects Peljesac with the mainland is the Pelješki bridge, but it is primarily the Croatian bridge because its construction is abolished or the Dokida territorial discontinuity of the Republic of Croatia. It enables the extraction of Croatia's far south, especially Dubrovnik-Neretva County, from transport isolation and from us residents, and its construction would allow us not to continue to be citizens of the second order. And tonight, after this session, when I go home twice, I'm going to cross the state line, four times I'm going to make a formality at that same border. What kind of formalities will be when Croatia becomes a member of the EU next year and when Schengen conditions are at that border, we will see more. The second thing, this bridge is no one's whim, especially the whim of the HDZ or HDZ government. It was established in the transport strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia from 12 years ago. For him, the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva and local self-government units have brought their own spatial plans based on a building permit. The basis of this permit is a tender and the business has been awarded by the Croatian consortium – the consortium of Croatian construction companies and this job is worth 2 billion and 200 million kuna. The moment the Croatian government says that the previous government has left no investment to the new government, giving up a job worth 2 billion kuna, which can employ the Croatian construction sector, which can employ Croatian shipbuilding that currently has empty navigations on us is not wise, not only for the extraction of the far south but also for the observation from the economic aspect. The first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic said yesterday, and I'm going to finish with that, that this government has not left the projects. She left behind a series of projects that were much more than 8 billion announced by this government and were important to continue with.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4214	Thank you very much. Please let us be clear about this amendment. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the required majority, he wasn't accepted. Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. Please engage and let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 36 against, 3 abstentions, have been made by the decision on granting consent to the 2012 Croatian Roads Financial Plan and the 2013 and 2014 projections in the text as proposed by the Proposer with the amendments adopted. Moving to point 4. The financial plan, which is the proposal of the State Agency's Financial Plan for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that most 84 votes in favour of, 34 against, 4 abstentions have been made to give consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. A year in the text as proposed by the applicant. 5. Proposal for a Financial Plan of the State Property Management Agency for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a Financial Plan of the State Property Management Agency for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections. Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that most of the 85 votes in favour of, 35 against, 3 abstentions have been decided to give consent to the Financial Plan of the State Property Management Agency for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections in the text as proposed by the Proposer. The Legislative Committee proposes that the Assembly draw a conclusion, which reads: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out together representatives of the proposings a revision of the text of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and of the financial plans prior to their publication in the National Journal." It's been the usual procedure before. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. I find that most of the votes are 120 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and no one against this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4215	We are now moving to - Final draft law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year P.Z. No. 38 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and by interested working bodies. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Maybe just a few basic clues. The difference between this bill and the implementation of the state budget is important compared to earlier. Earlier, let's take 2011. He predicted that the government could make decisions on redistributing the budget above 5%. Respecting the very often parliamentary debate that the state budget is nevertheless the competence of the Croatian Parliament, we have abolished this possibility by proposing this law, which means the government no longer has the right to divide within the budget above 5%, which means that if we are not able to be responsible for these items of the budget we come before the Parliament and you will open the debate and you will be able to seriously discuss the reasons why the Government did not keep the budget envisaged. Therefore, a significant difference, the budget, the budget authority is being drawn into the Assembly, and the government has only the right to distribute within the 5%. We also envisioned the budget stock for 200 million kuna for this year. The budget base for the mass of additives attached to the budget base has not been changed, remains 3 thousand 326 kuna. We give local self-government units up to 2.5% of their income by not counting on the Croatian component for EU funds. The government debt we predicted could grow to 55%, which is significant and very clear for what reason, not just because of these 9.9 billion deficits. In this year we must implement the decision of this Assembly regarding Croatian shipbuilding. Therefore, we will try to assume on ourselves all the debts of Croatian shipbuilding on the decisions of the Croatian Parliament and these are truly enormous amounts. We're going to try to get new credits, agree on new conditions that we simply don't have a lot of burden on the side of funding for the state budget. We've predicted a guarantee supply of up to 1 billion kuna. We also envisioned a return on income tax related to areas of special state concern and related to other support. Here's so much about the characteristics of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4217	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, honourable representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4218	Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's already a canoe, but just a short one. As its parent Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, it discussed at its 3rd session held on 15 February and on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. After the debate, the Committee for Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to vote 8 votes in favour and 4 against proposing the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4219	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates. I'm sorry there are no Mršić colleagues and for 8 years he's been setting amendments for local self-government units, but since nothing has changed, it looks like he's going to have to write them again. But what I reported on behalf of the club are two articles, Article 25 and Article 30. So Article 25, since today we have been talking all day about not living on debt, etc. It clearly says that this year the state will have to borrow 18 billion and 850 million kuna and sell two billion kunas. With that I would like to say for the sake of truth and for the record that the deficit of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia before the 2009 crisis was 2.8 billion kuna. So today, the story of incompetence, etc., was running around all day. So, definitely, the economic crisis which reduced the revenues of the state budget in 2009, unfortunately remained at levels that were even higher than in 2008. After all, it is the key problem of this budget. And if we had been a little bit correct in today's debates, then we would have come to that together. You didn't want to support us at some point about cutting certain rights and the deficit just went where it is. Today the exact same story, the deficit is where it is. They tried to cut off some of the rights actually trying, which we'll see, plus that extra budget funds have a need to borrow in the next year 2 billion 680 million. So that's 21 billion total, when we add to that the Croatian highways that are not in the consolidated balance sheet of the state then that's quite the amount and that's why it's very important how we all behave at these times when we're talking about credit rating agencies. It is very important that we all know that at a given moment the spoken word has a weight depending on what function you perform and that is why it is very important that everything that is indicated in the budget be the way it is. Any breakthrough will unfortunately lead us in the wrong direction. And what I would like to either get an answer or hear as all the time the budget debate is about is that the key moment or the key thing about this budget is generally this year in the Republic of Croatia 8 billion investment from public companies. In view of the fact that only 2 billion guarantees for all these investments are foreseen here, then the question arises who will give HZ a loan without a state guarantee. And he even asked the HEP that he could get a loan from the state guarantee. It can be very easy for us too that in the 5th, 6th month we will have to have an amendment to this article because as far as I know only if the EBRD has not changed its policy for political reasons they did not want to even hear to give HZ credit without state guarantee. Why would I bring that up? Because most of these guarantees, unfortunately given by both HZ and some other companies that are in trouble, will also be viewed by international financial investors and also by rating agencies as a likely budget cost in the future. And it's just for the sake of truth, for the fact that we've been discussing some things for two, three years just so much that it's been said that it hasn't skipped over some things. Because I say today, unfortunately, no one has remembered that the crisis is a condition of this kind and the reason for such a high deficit, because if it wasn't for the crisis, in 2009, we would certainly have a surplus budget. And in 2008, you told us we had skeletons, etc. So now you've seen that they were gone in 2011 let alone that they were in 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4221	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4222	Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the HNS Club supports the Final Proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Three are the key facts or indicators of this bill. It is also in line with the government's policy with the coalition policy, which is that from a clear example of the possibility of foreign and domestic money and capital market debt, the government is limited to 18 billion and 850 million kuna. One year earlier, 2011 meant that amount was already from 23 billion, which means that it goes to a reduction in deficits, a reduction in budget costs, and the government limits itself 4.5 billion with this proposal as it was the previous year. The space opened to local self-government units to increase from 2.3 to 2.5% of the debt to local and regional self-government units of total operating incomes, only suggests that the government's intention is to allow local self-government units to apply for capital investment for development, for the competitiveness of the economy to get their space at this time of crisis and recession. And of course that strongest message is related to the HBOR where, by increasing the underlying capital, interest subsidies, the share in refurbishment and development loans is secured by 720 million kuna. Fiscal stability, consolidated budget and this, of course, law without which there is no budget implementation. Let us not forget the direct impact, sends a message but it is a clear way of working the government and sends a message to the world towards the capital market, which determines the price of capital not only towards the state of Croatia, determines the price of capital towards the financial sector, the price of capital according to investment, the price of capital and the call for all those investors to come to Croatia, that the stability that the message of this Government is that they are welcome, that we are no longer going into recession, that realising 0.8% of gross product growth is a real message and that those who are welcome in Croatia. The government responds to all the challenges of the time in which we live, and they provide better conditions for entrepreneurship because the state I believe will not be long for many years and must not be the main driver of development, which at this time, in this situation where Croatia is located, must be rather than the state creating conditions and this law and budget are also in the creation of conditions for entrepreneurship to be the driver of development, GDP growth, living standards and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4223	Here's no more charges for discussion. We'll vote on the amendments tabled. Excuse me, Mr. Slavko Linic, here's the final minister of finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4224	I thank the clubs for the debate. Just a few words. 8 billion increases in investment by the state through public companies are reality and we believe that we will talk about them in the next few weeks, that it will be an additional government document that will try all those who I would say untrustworthy of our growth rate of 0.8 to simply see how much of our own participation we can make in all of this. It is always a fundamental question whether companies in the majority ownership of the state can or cannot do so without guarantees. I agree with my colleague Shuker that the problem of the Croatian Railways is, but I also say, this problem stems from the fact that we had 8 years of agreed support for both the World Bank and the EBRD for the restructuring of railways and that these support stood and did not use them. We did not use them for a simple reason because there was no process of privatising non-essential activities, nor was there a further process in rationalising both freight and passenger transport. These are the jobs which are mostly the reason I would say mistrust of these institutions. As far as HEP is concerned, I am convinced that both HEP-Prinos and HEP- Distribution will have a very good opportunity to obtain funds. Not to mention Croatian banks that are also partly ready to finance individual projects without state guarantees in that part. So I believe we're going to have a lot of, a lot of opportunities in this part to realize. Let's be honest, the biggest problem that will cause us is the production of Croatian trains. So if we go on the passenger train of Croatian producers Gredelja and Končar we will have to finance it ourselves, I would have to tell the guarantees because in such projects where we enter the direct competition of Siemens, I don't know which world producers, we won't get the support of the institutional banking world. Therefore, if we are really committed to Croatian product then we must manage in that part ourselves. And a few words to try to figure it out. By 2008, we unwarrantedly raised consumption, unwarranted. And that consumption didn't matter what the deficits said, as fellow Shucker said, because the revenues were thus covering these expenditures. But I wonder if we've solved the incentives for agriculture, if we've solved structural problems in our companies. Did we turn to development, the answer is no and that's why in 2009, we have over 10 billion deficits, that in '10. We're 14.7 years old and now we're over 15. So in only three years of downturn in income for the reason we didn't have an economy, we haven't affected that crisis has affected the explosion of our deficits. And that's why this year the government thinks it has to show on the one hand the battle for these investments, turning I would say that public, commercial sector that is under our influence towards investment and on the other hand the subtle change, and on the other hand the necessity of cutting expenditure. Exactly the structure of our deficits over the last three years has become uncontrollable. When I speak uncontrollably, it's up to 15 billion deficits that's really a problem as far away as possible. And that's why the result of this kind of budget that's in front of you and this final law itself shows that we had to change something. That something was essentially just before and discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4225	Thank you, Minister. So, the amendments that could be submitted to this moment will be voted when the conditions are met. And I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4226	I apologize first of all, but I have one thing to fix because it's simply not true that the World Bank will lend to HH while HH has a working ratio of one two. It's for a earned kuna the sea gets two kunas from the budget. And you know well that all these years and while you were Deputy Prime Minister, all the funds that were received from the World Bank were always the biggest brakes of the Croatian railways. And it's incorrect what you said about the 2008 budget. In 2008, I received the World Bank Award "Top Ten Reformer", the only Croatian minister in this 22-year period enrolled in the book. So, they're not exactly stupid enough to give a Wall Street award to someone who hasn't done anything. Like I told you, I appreciate what you're doing, and you admit that those two billion and eight hundred were the result of something. It's a matter of politics whether you give someone or not to give them any rights. But I'm saying, if the World Bank gave us that reward, she didn't give us nothing. I'd be happy if you'd get the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4227	Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna break up the session. We'll continue as we said with the plenary debate tomorrow at 1200 hours with a united debate on four next points of the agenda. These are the Final Proposal of the Tax Administration Act, the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the Financial Police, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. Good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4228	We are now passing two laws and a little bit of work on elections, appointments and resolutions to the Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012, second reading, P.Z. No. 38. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline laid down in its Rules of Procedure and in accordance with Article 146. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's for me by hand? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the 86 votes in favour of, 34 against, four abstentions have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to explain the amendment. Here you are, Mr. Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4229	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. The amendment of the Government to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 refers to Article 10(1), which reduces the amount of the 200 000 budget reserve to the amount of the 200 million sorry. [[Intruder: 200 million.]] 118 million and 500 thousand kuna. Explanation, amendments by the Government to the State Budget were provided with the means for the functioning of representatives in the European Court of Human Rights, redistributions to the State Office for the Management of State Property and the necessary resources to ensure the Ministry of Science for the Transport of High School Students and to which redistributions are reduced part of the funds in the budget reserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4230	Thank you very much. A debate where only club representatives can participate. It's already said what you should have said, thank you very much and what you wanted to say. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the 86 votes in favour of, 30 against, 8 abstentions accepted by the government's amendment. On the final draft of the amendment law, the SDP's Representatives Club also submitted. Please explain the government's reaction to these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4231	The Government accepts the 1st and 2nd Amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-20-0.u4232	Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 34 against and 2 abstentions, have been passed by the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 in the text proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. So we continue to work with a united debate on the following texts of the legislative proposals. It is - Final proposal of the Tax Administration Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 30, - Final draft law on the termination of the Financial Police Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 27, - Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 33, - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 35 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, as provided for in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the working bodies. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Mr. Boris Lalovec, Deputy Minister of Finance.
