ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26376	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you before this reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families. In this past period, we have seen what can be done, which could be done constructively, unfortunately we really have, since we have really prepared this law thoroughly, we do not have any additional proposals. We talked last time about solving the problem of members of the People's Protection, unfortunately they didn't report or accept what we offered them, which is the only thing we can do at this time for members of the People's Protection, and in all other provisions are... Here I call on you, appeal to be constructive and here on my part because in the past period I have received a lot of calls from Croatian defenders who have given me support and said that in some things I am not going down to the level of conversation that was the last time, so here I will respond very gladly to all constructive proposals, to those others I will not answer at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26377	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the War Veterans Committee, a respected representative, Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26378	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families is the Committee for the War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 9th session held on 12th December 2012 considered the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by an act of 6 December 2012. The Committee held the hearing as the home working body in accordance with Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Introducing the applicant's representative made the difference between the final proposal and the bill's proposal and the reasons why the proposals and opinions presented in the debate at first reading of the law were not accepted. The aim of amending and supplementing the law is to identify individual groups of defenders and members of their families in terms of recognition of the rights of the widow, defenders, volunteers who spent at least two years in the Homeland War. The publication of a single register of Croatian defenders, precision, prescribing the right to priority in employment, the installation of the practice of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in certain provisions of the law, prescribing the obligation to maintain the grave posts of Croatian defenders and... zero solutions on monetary rights of non-members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The following opinions were given in the discussion of the members of the Committee. All amendments and additions proposed by this final bill are... good wishes and false hopes for the purpose and for the purpose of the publication of the Defence Register, the publication of the register has threatened the security of defenders, in particular those who have been evicted from BiH and Vojvodina and defenders of members of intelligence and security services. The publications were to be resolved in a way that those who wish to publish their data would make a written statement, not in a manner that violates constitutional and legal provisions. Prescribing the possibility for widows to retain rights under the law by entering new marriages and extramarital communities is unfair because each such community excludes the rights arising from the previous marriage community or from the extramarital community. Criminalisation, public conversation,... the persecution of wartime commanders will be the result of the publication of the register, not the strengthening of the dignity and honors of Croatian defenders. The publication of a register that will become the most honorable published by the list in the Republic of Croatia will in no way endanger the security of the defender. The public expects the basis of the published list to identify those who did not participate in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and those whose merits were the same and found on that list. The job of identifying it is to the institutions of the system. It welcomes the inclusion of the right to care for residents of volunteers who spent more than two years in the war, regardless of all of them being provided with sufficient funds for emergency care, but will be provided in accordance with the appropriations provided in the budget or from the interest paid by the defenders themselves. That's a second thought. The third publication of the register will produce division among defenders, everything could be resolved through competent institutions, especially now that the Homeland War should be closed and 17 years after the end of the same. Fourthly, the Defence Registry should be published because it is a list of honest and honest people who participated in a fair and liberating war, and the defenders should be proud and the public has the right to know who defended the Republic of Croatia, and the new rights that are proposed will advance the law itself. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is aimed at ghettoising, not the integration of defenders into society, and these changes and additions are going in this direction. That's fifth thought. And the sixth, status of members of the national protection should be resolved as soon as possible in a way that recognises the status of Croatian defenders. The defence ministry in co-operation with the Ministry of Defence should determine their exact number. After this debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, by a majority of votes, 7 votes and 2 votes against and 1 abstentions, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26379	Thank you too, President of the Board. Do the other committees want to take part? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26380	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders, unfortunately in the media, is mainly about whether or not to be published by the Croatian Defence Register, and then unfortunately it went to quite another sphere. Whether this register is evidence against some, whether this register is a pillar of shame or whether it is what should be a list of pride with which all those who are real defenders will be rightly proud. To be honest, I can't get the impression that this was targeted for reasons to distract myself from all the other concerns that are real and living to Croatian citizens, which is that over 350 thousand unemployed, that the cost of life went up, that the standard of life went down and all these everyday problems people are having fun, though not all because some aren't in a situation of whether or not they need to register defenders. My personal position should be more published by that Defense Registry so we can take it off. The institutions have yet to say, the institutions have been able to do their part of the work on this matter, to determine who is real, and who is a liar, although I am still stressing that, again, those who are fake Croatian wartime disabled who exercise privileges by being false. The real ones don't get the privileges, they get what's theirs, but that's what I said last time. What I am disputed about in this law remains and I have first pointed out it and I am stressing it, it is still a division of the combat and non-combat sector simply did not, I cannot accept it since Article 2 has defined something completely different and we now accept that the rule that is subsequently, even I do not know if it has been published but it has been made and this regulation has been made that some division in the combat and non-combating sectors and I am afraid that there has been a mistake and this big mistake, that I am not repeating the story of all the last time. I think the simple article 2 has defined who the defender is, and everything else can be the participants of the Homeland War, in no case the defenders. When it comes to other things that apply to this law, but even more to the work of this ministry, unfortunately, we have a case that is really cool now and I hope that it will not be politicised and I only mention it in context as a sad example, the case of Santakovic. Unfortunately, only when it is raised in the media is it then going to react, only then come aids, only then comes adequate help but that assistance should have come long before and there are many such defenders who need help and who simply cannot. I mentioned the last time and the case of the Zadar defender because of that famous piece of land that's been unprocessed for years but which he went through with the desert debate and which is why he lost his rights, which means he's disabled himself. I know the case of a Sisak defender who unfortunately left, simply gave up on himself, not on himself, but on himself, who even gave himself up to vices and eventually experienced the fate that his own children had been taken away from him, the care of those children had been taken over by another family. These are cases that this ministry should deal with, but these are cases where it should react immediately. You have services, you have all possible institutions at your disposal. And unfortunately, when such a life goes away when it's lost, I believe, unfortunately, for this fellow from Sisak that coming back amongst let's say "normal" is not an adequate expression I apologize to that everyday life I'm afraid there is no more. So I'm saying I'm going to do it again, and I know that some of them, especially on this side, were very bitter when I mentioned what was wrong with the reputation of both the defenders and the Homeland War, so I also mentioned the reserve acts. And now we have a situation, let's say, of the aforementioned Santakovic whom at least if I know exactly, and if I don't, I'll be grateful that someone can correct me who hasn't received any rank or confessions. And on the other hand, we have a situation that some media figures have received these acts, and even among other things, the reserve act has been given to today's Remetinca resident who doesn't know what you and such people deserve. If someone is, I repeat that it does not turn out that Chiru Blažević I am apostrophe, if people have some merit for promoting Croatia, for not knowing anything, so give them some, something else, some confessions, but not reserve acts. Well, it really doesn't have one with the other, so it shouldn't have touch points. What I think this ministry should, say, determine is helping these defenders who really need it, so let's say waiting lists for operations. The defenders who were wounded in the Homeland War or who were suffering from some disease due to their participation in the Homeland War and are now waiting for operational procedures, if there is a possibility that they might be affected by the list of priorities, that is, if I am not mistaken in Article 13, that part of something should be done. Then I think Article 134 is prescribed two years the percentage of damage to the organism for review for two years. I think it's the same, given that people in the meantime are old, that disease progression, that it's stress. Maybe you should put it there for a year. Maybe it would be a more reasonable deadline, more acceptable. And for the last time, you and now on the Committee on the Family, your deputy, I've asked the question of the Association of Victims in the Homeland War, so people who had a job obligation. The last time I mentioned an example of a man working on a ferry, he was admitted to the status of a defendant by suffering, while, for example, an electrician who died in the event that I wasn't wrong in Osijek in the south of two, and there's about 30 of them in the whole country, there's no status. And now the question is, how do they have one, how do they not have the other? I got the answer that you're not in charge, that it's either the Ministry of the Interior or the Department of Defense. However, both ministries are giving a reluctance. We didn't mobilize you, you were mobilized by someone else. People walk from one to the next, they can't find their own solution. I think that's exactly where the Department of Defense needs to react in a way that either the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Defense finds a solution that these people can even turn to, what to do because this kind of walk I think is harmful to both the Ministry and the Ministry's reputation. When it comes to housing, what you have cited as a positive example. Repeat, question from last time. In Zagreb apartments owned by the city of Zagreb, I know that this cannot be settled by law, but I know that there have been certain initiatives by the city and that a few initiatives have already been launched for the actions of these defenders, and then my deputy is yours. Well, that's not the answer! I agree that it can delay things, that it can be a one-time solution but it needs some permanent solution found for these people. The fact is also that if these people want any sort of apartment, they can't take any housing credit for it because it hasn't been settled. He's practically illegal in that apartment. These are some of the problems I think the ministry should deal with more. Unfortunately, now it's turned out that we're mostly dealing with the publication of the defense registry if we should, whether we shouldn't. Repeat all those arguments from last time on this and I don't think it makes any sense. I'll repeat that sentence from the beginning of the Croatian Labour Club will support this, let that register be published once, so let's deal with something else, this doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26381	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one replica of your presentation, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26382	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Col. Novak, you said at the beginning one thing was that it was targeted that you couldn't take away the impression that you're targeting this law now and with the publication of the register that the public in some way would turn public attention away from the economic problems, the problem of unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. A very incorrect statement because we said clearly and loudly in the election campaign that we would publish the defence register, and then you said that you were sorry that it was only about the publication of the defence register, and that this law included some other things you commended. It was therefore quite logical that the ministry needed some time to draw up this law and go out with it. I think it would be the same thing if one didn't want a law like this and whoever didn't want to publish the register could have said it in the first month and in the second month and in the third month, and whenever we came out with that document, it could have been said that we were just targeting it for that and that reason. That's one thing. And the other thing about reserve acts is not the defence ministry's issue, but it's a matter of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of the Presidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26383	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26384	Thank you very much. And when I first read this law, I had a problem with people hearing what they wanted to hear, not what I said. And now I've said that I have the impression that a pump has been consciously made and that it is consciously distracting, attention that you want to publish the Defense Register, not the whole law. A law that must go, it's not a dispute, but that knowingly rises and I don't know why you are, it feels like you're simply experiencing it as the calling of the ruling coalition. I'm putting you and them there, so there's no one here, and I think you've got it all wrong. As far as this second section is concerned about reserve acts, I didn't even say it was a matter of this ministry, I said it was a matter of fact that the details that worked on destroying the reputation and defenders and the Homeland War were among other things and the assignment of reserve acts that was without any criteria, it really went the way that it took care of my subjects, those who were mine, and that was the only criterion. And unfortunately, those people, here's an example again, I have to mention it to Commander Vukovar Dedakovic, let's say one where there really was something to be done, and it was made shamefully, embarrassingly! It's a shame for Croatia! There I agree with my colleague with yesterday's statement it's really a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26385	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. Now it's up to the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26386	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. Well, I don't think this moment of passing this law is in any way questioned. Every moment if the position of Croatian defenders improves is the right moment, so the right moment is also for this law. And as I last quoted what are the basic issues that need to be regulated by law, so I'm going to do it this time. Then, among other things, when we read the provisions of the law, the law intends to improve the conditions for family pensions for the years of the widow of the dead Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War 1st and 2nd group, strengthening the right to take advantage of employment, recognises the right to provide housing to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have participated in the Homeland War for a long time. He recognises the right to supply the widows of the Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War in the event they are not granted the right to a family pension, recognises the right to maintain the graves of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who died in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. It announces a zero solution to the monetary rights of non-Natives who were members of the Armed Forces during the Homeland War. Clearly, the consequences of the adoption of the law are the following: the public availability of the list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is this famous Registrar, the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War will be possible for a person who has been able to establish, in an appropriate procedure, voluntary abandonment or abandonment of a unit without the permission of commanders, widows of the dead Croatian wartime disabled with 100% damage to the first and second groups, to achieve better existential security. I've already spoken about the application of the provisions to the advantage of employment. The right to housing will also be granted by volunteers members of the fighting sector who have neither gained the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. There's a Valkana case in Pula, and I want to believe that it will try to help them in some way. The subsidisation of interest rates for widows of dead Croatian wartime war invalids from the Homeland War, which are not employed in the life period from 45 to 50 years and cannot be entitled to a family pension under the general pension rule, and will be possible under difficult economic conditions for the right to supply. The widows and extramarital wives of the dead Croatian defenders of the Homeland War shall be given the opportunity to conclude a new marriage or extramarital community without losing the rights acquired under the law, etc., etc., provided that, after their death, these rights cannot be inherited by a new spouse or an extramarital partner as well as by their children. So, in one word, if there's any time to pass this law, this is the moment. And the next day, if there's any more rights, the same will be the right time to amend this law. I'm aware of the fact that we're going to be speaking in some way dominantly about the publication of the Register. That was the last time. I listened to the president, the late President Tudjman in '95. The year from this place, which means from this pay phone, he mentioned a number of 300 or 350 thousand people who defended the Republic of Croatia. Today we're talking about 500 grand. Of course that's impossible. Now, I'm talking about Franjo Tudjman's letter back in '95. After that letter, we all went down to Dwarce for some breakfast, harder times, but people were closer. What am I saying? Clearly, we do not need to spend, but in some ways we need to hang out, which is what we need. Less politicizing, especially when it comes to such laws and more cooperation and perhaps more understanding of the opportunities of both the Minister in question or the other ministers, the less they argue with each other. The Croatian defenders from 95th to today were not neglected. They were properly taken care of by the HDZ and coalition governments, and clearly the defenders deserve it. Yes, the Partisans fought for the Croatian borders of Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, the defenders of the border defended them. I repeat, all governments have taken care of the defenders. Clearly, a colleague spoke about certain excesses, for example. In the case of old Jastreb, Brigadier Dedakovic, where we all somehow forgot about and Vukovar, and one of those who defended the current minister defended Vukovar, defended Croatia through Vukovar and the current minister of this Mr Matic, simply laid the foundations if I may express myself in this way by Croatian state. And it is good that General Gotovina calls Mr. Dedakovic or titles the general because he as well as Mr. Borkovic young Hawk certainly deserves the rank. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know exactly what's going on in that particular case, but I know there's no reason to politilize Mr. Dedakovic's case. It is clear that Mr. Dedakovic, the old Hawk or young Hawk Borkovic, must not be forgotten. If Mr. Dedakovic was humiliated in 91st of the then Croatian authorities today, he must be honored because he did everything he could for the Republic of Croatia. But let's let it go now. However, it certainly cannot be respected that anyone in particular Mr. Dedakovic is discriminating or neglecting, that perhaps someone else at the head of the Ministry of Defence rather than Mr. Matic, perhaps it would not be possible then. But this way, his comrade must not be at the end of his mind or mind. But what Croatia really is is the same. It is this war damage that we simply have and that we are facing, which is not one of the European states or states that are in the EU today. I keep saying that the war on Croatian citizens has cut the standard by maybe a third or 50%. We have certainly lost to these 20 and some budgets because of the aggression on the Republic of Croatia, each third budget, maybe seven budgets, one third of the same, if you have in mind the dead, wounded, if you keep in mind the fact that, annually, the rights of the defender should be secured in the state budget of some 6 billion kuna, if we have in mind a lost economic base, if we have in mind a broken economy or an economy that we simply cannot restore or not be restored if we have in mind the restoration of the population, etc. And all that will follow is surely hundreds and hundreds of billions of kuna. Clearly, in 2012 time as, it is such a time to close some open issues with Slovenia, it is time to close questions and with BIH, let's say around borders but also Serbia, we live next to each other, we simply can't, it is up to the authorities to have some options mainly in Serbia that we don't like, but we have to work, we have to trade, we have to trade goods, tourists have to travel, avoided the population if possible to return and in some way this yesterday's Hague verdict in case I don't know what it's called that general who's responsible not for the massacre but for the genocide in Srebrenica. Of course, let's let it go now, this is the Defense Act. The defenders defended the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is based on this defence today unquestioned, Croatia no longer defends itself on the battlefield, Croatia defends itself by filling the budget, the standard of citizens, the growth of gross social product, exports, the good life of its inhabitants. Only economic growth will enable defenders but also all others to enjoy these rights, i.e. They do. I don't think the defenders enjoy anything, that it's understood right away that I wouldn't be corrected, it simply belongs to them, but without the growth of the gross social budget, budget revenues are all simply questionable. We can talk about the Republic of Croatia's budget like this. 124 billion kuna, so for defenders, it goes 6 billion kuna, for pensions if we take out those pensions for defenders, another 30 billion kuna, 20 billion kuna goes for health care, for subsidies goes 6 billion, for the payments of loans as far as it goes, somewhere 27 billion if I'm not mistaken, then the repayment of the loan of 10.1 billion, for the welfare goes almost 30 billion, for the public sector's salaries goes 20 billion, etc. Well, then a man asks himself a question, in fact, what this government can make out with. And what's also interesting when we talk about these, I don't know how many 12, 13 categories of authorised pensions, for old-age pensions means 18 billion kuna goes, then for disability pensions 5.8 billion, for family pensions 4.8 billion, for defence pensions 4.8 billion, HV pensions 470 million kuna, MPs 69 million kuna members of former JNA 333 million kuna, academics' pensions 13 million kuna, partisan pensions 390 million kuna, native 92.5 million kuna, pensions of the MUP 425 million kuna. So defense pensions are $4.8 billion, and HVO pensions are 470 million. The last time I heard it here, I think it was Mr. Duje Marasovic who said that some who served the Italian army were fascists, and today they are receiving Italian retirement. There aren't many who are still receiving it but slowly with what we've all been to JNA, and some in Kosovo in '81 we're not occupiers or I don't know what. When I received an invitation to go to Kosovo then my mother went to complain and her answer was Mary let your son of the world see and go after the world look down on Kosovo, but let's let it go now. What am I saying? That 2/3 of these people who served this Italian army were at the end of '43 after Italy's capitulation in Partisans, etc. And I don't see where the problem is, except I regret that this Italian pension my family didn't get on either side is no bigger. And let's not play with it, gentlemen. Why? Because then we play in some way with HVO pensions in BiH, and I think if these young people are "mobilized" by the order of late President Tudjman, Mr. Shuska deserves a pension. I honestly mean it and I'm going to say it publicly whether someone agrees with me or not. All in all, gentlemen, this is a good law. This law introduces a whole series of new rights, it should be respected. If there's anything to reach a consensus about, then I guess that's the law. Let us not politicise, especially one good intention, let us not impute Mr. Matic the case of Dedakovic because he was in that unit that defended Vukovar at the head of the old and young Jastreb. Mr. Matic introduces a whole series of new standards or it'll be the Parliament or the Government, the Parliament actually, here and that's certainly good. That's good. Today, the defenders after the adoption of this law, or tomorrow after the adoption of this law, will be in a better position than they were until today or yesterday, and that's good. So no one can say that anyone is neglecting anyone. I agree there have been some incidents, for example. In the Beštek case, I guess it was also called the Pancic case of returning that prosthetic. Now whether someone with disabilities is 90% or 100%, we don't do that, let's not get into it, let's not play that way, not that individual's emotions, let's not the whole nation. But all in all, this law should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26387	Thank you very much. Your Honorable representative, 7 replicas have been reported for your exposure. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26388	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I very much support what my colleague Cain said that we are not politicizing in this debate, I support you, and I will certainly stick to it. Just because I believe about the figure you mentioned in your MP, I would like to remind President Tudjman of the number of Croatian defenders that at the time of Dr. Tudjman and here in the assembly spoke of it was not made a register of Croatian defenders. The register was made in 2005 and the fact is that at that time it was obvious that there were those who did not dare take some figures out of the drawers and tell the real truth. But maybe that's the end of it, and I'm sure by the end and the list of defenders in that sense that, of course, there was a list in the MUP one in the morh and it wasn't made to the end. So we're taking care of it. And the second fact that you have mentioned before the end that some new standards are being introduced and that the minister is introducing some new standards. That's one thing to think about. You commended the possibility that the widows of Croatian defenders after getting married used rights as widows of Croatian defenders. As a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, they only exercise their right to do so from the fact that they were wives of Croatian defenders who unfortunately lost their lives. And so by exercising these rights now and by getting married when they establish a new marriage community, we get a new standard as you said, but also a new legal and any other category of widows who are married women or married women who are actually widows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26389	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26390	I agree except in that part that the late President Tudjman was not informed about the number of people who defended the Republic of Croatia. It is the war president, and I think both the police and the military were in a circle of his primary interest because it simply required that the late President Tudjman could not in any way steal the error of 150 thousand those who defended or did not defend the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26391	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26392	Dear President... /The speaker has been disfellowshipped./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26393	You need to turn the microphone on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26394	I am happy to participate in this debate on Croatian defenders, but I would like to warn you of some facts that should be taken into account when discussing this in this House. First, if Croatia had been attacked is the fact that there was war and defence that is a fact, they would have told the lawyers it was de facto so. But the deiura was not declared war, and if the war existed, and there was a de facto then it is the duty of citizens, all able citizens, to defend their country and agree with MP Milos that many have left Croatia not to participate in the defence and that this is an important information. But here I would stress that the duty is to defend the country and that those who were 18 to 65 years old were there, that they were obliged, that it wasn't just the acquisition of rights. We're talking about defense rights here, not the duties of the citizens of the Republic to defend their country. I think it would be very good for Mr. Matic to keep in mind that it is a constitutional category and norm, that it is the duty of all able citizens to defend the affected country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26395	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26396	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Cain, in your debate, you went quite broadly, so you found that the borders of today's republic were created by partisans in World War II, that Croatian defenders in the Homeland War had defended them, so you said that today Croatia defends itself in a different way, by economy, by development, etc., not to list everything you've said. However, yesterday I heard the news that came from the Istrian area, which says that the IDS that you are also a member, whose representative you are, will advocate that after Croatia enters the European Union, Istria will seek autonomy. Now I don't know if it's a pre-election story that appears before any local elections or if it's really been a longing for 20 years, but it hasn't come true so far. And will you as the current parliamentary representative and future mayor also represent the same thesis because it also concerns these stories about Croatian defenders and the war they led for this Republic of Croatia, especially for defenders who came from Istria. And I think it is good that through this replica you will answer me to tell the Croatian public and your position on Istria's autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26397	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26398	Why is Jacob's defense only by HDZ? Maybe it's because you've had one honest cooperation before and at the time of Eve Sanader, but let's let it go now. The borders were indeed created by partisans there, voted through the diplomatic efforts of Tito's diplomacy in '47, '54. ... an agreement when he was in '75. A year. And as for autonomy, it's only a synonym for local self-government and that local self-government through the form of decentralisation will certainly take place, it will be realised in the term of this government and there should be no skeptics. Clearly, the Istrians will choose this strong local self-government, the decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia themselves down where they live and through the Croatian Parliament. This is not necessary for the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26399	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26400	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, you've said a lot of these things, there's a lot to talk about. But as far as the fascist army and its members are concerned, all those members were members of the Italian army, there are over 30,000, and the Italian army was a fascist army because fascism was invented in Italy. Hitler had national socialism, but Fascism had appointed Mussolini as a term and so they were soldiers who acted in different places, not only in Europe, perhaps some were in Ethiopia. But I have expressed my desire to publish a list of all those men in which the troops fought, did any of them perhaps march into my Split as a black shirt on the waterfront and hang what our people had hung on the waterfront and around the waterfront. Why wouldn't I have the right to know if we're now publishing a list of defense attorneys with that... nothing more. I have some more time, these partisan borders of Croatia, thank you for such borders because they created Croatia in two parts. The only country in the world that had two parts is eastern and western Pakistan, and we know how this story ended with the creation of Bangladesh, and we allowed Croatia in two parts and today we have in two parts and we still don't give a bridge to bring them together, and it had a Bosnia exit to Montenegro, so our partisans allowed it to be compact on that side, the border of Montenegro, and they left Croatia in two parts. Therefore, it is not Tito's diplomacy, but the blood of people, boys and my Mark Marasovic who died near Trieste at the borders, at the western borders it was made possible and... the dominant Catholic church and the involvement of the Catholic church in Istria was proven to be a Croatian cemetery, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26401	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26402	Okay, for this in two parts, I'm just hoping we won't be making another war with BiH right now, we know what it's led to either Serbia or Montenegro or I don't know who it is. But it doesn't matter. Such a crazy policy will not lead any policies in the Republic of Croatia. Well, you've been to the U.N.A., the aggressor, the occupation, one or the other. And where they were supposed to be Istrian during that period from Italian occupation to their capitulation in '43. Ha, they could only be in the Italian army. So what were they supposed to do? Everyone leaves Istria. So in order for Croatia to come to Istrian, Rijeka or Zadar spaces. Let us not simply play with such qualifications, because two-thirds of those people who served the Italian army I am sure that in the end it ended up in the Partizan troops and that is, among other things, one of the Istrian specifics such as the specifics that the Roman Catholic Church has made a significant contribution to the integration of Istria into the territorial Corps of the Croatian or Slovenian people, however, the upper part of the northern part. And I'm sure no one can worship her. Well, that's something to remember. Yes, on the other hand, the church is in some way I'd say a post-war exodus. All Italian priests headed by Bishop Radosi leave in '47. ................................................................................... Istria, the Slavic priests, Slovenians, Croats remain. But no matter what, both of them and the Italians made a huge contribution to breaking the fascist regime in Istria. And I would even dare say that several more Italian priests died in World War II, but Croats and Slovenians But all together, they made a huge contribution to breaking the fascist beast in those Istrian areas. [[Intruder Leko: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26403	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26404	Imported colleague Cain, absolutely for publication of the register of Croatian defenders. Those who want to use it against Croatian defenders will use it. After all, a large part of the register has already been published, but we also publish a list of those who attacked Croatia. I'm sure we have that information. We have the data of those who are abolized, who attacked Croatia and we publish that list as well. And that's the only thing we can do right now. I will move on to the rights of Croatian defenders and what is happening in practice. Many who were lucky not to have died in the Homeland War and did not give their lives to the Croatian state have lived their lives fairly, theirs and returned to their jobs, whether the consequences of the Homeland War and what they suffered in the Homeland War were very fast, some of them died, and those families after that funeral with military honor, along with an anthem, with an honorary platoon, with the flag being given for up to 5 months to get a solution to that family pension. The wives of such Croatian defenders when their children grow up and have no opportunity to get a job because their husband, the late husband, did not have a job after the child stopped going to school, they no longer have any right to this Law on Croatian defenders. And I think that as a state we have to change anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26405	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26406	About this second part, I absolutely agree, I co-sign. As for the list of abolized cans, why not. But let us not only wrong these people if they are abolized by the Croatian judiciary. But for this second part, I absolutely agree with everything you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26407	Next replica and respected representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26408	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Cain, I disagree with the good part of the views and opinions that you have expressed in your debate that now is the right time to publish the register, so that all authorities have taken care of Croatian defenders equally so far, which is also not true, and that you talk about how some new standards are introduced. What new standards? Is this new standard of giving the right, so to tell the widows that when they get married no longer, to continue to apply the rights of the Law on the Rights of the Croatian defenders, while at the same time in this statement I gave you, the community of widows is against the vote and adoption of this law. Is the new standard the right to provide housing for the volunteers of the Homeland War who have participated for two or three years in the Homeland War and for this no funds are provided and will not be solved alone for the next 50 years. It's just false promises, and no new rights and no new standards. And what is particularly significant and important and what bothers me about this bill is the fact that in the past 8 years, all the legal regulations that have been passed, and when it comes to the defence or defence population, have been adopted in agreement with defence associations, and even that government decision to reduce Croatian defenders' pensions by 10%, has been made in agreement with defence associations. And here we have one statement signed by seven defense organizations that are against this law. Just to read which associations are: Alliance of Associations of Family Detained and Missing Croatian Defendants President of the Association of the Parents of the Dead Croatian Defendants, the Community of the Association of Widows, the Association of Children of the Dead and Missing Croatian Defendants, the Assembly of Veterans of the Guard Brigades and the Association of Special Police from the Homeland War. [[The Intruder President: Time Dear Representative.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26409	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica? Oh, no? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26410	Yeah, yeah, I did. Well, I can all be against it, but the moment this law is passed, I am deeply convinced that all those who have the right to do so will take advantage of this more favourable status which is now in this law. I personally think that it is always the right time to introduce some new standards that improve the position of Croatian defenders, so all of these rights or basic issues that govern them by this law, whether it is the public availability of the list of Croatian defenders from the Register, whether it is that widows of the dead Croatian military disabled with 100% damage to the bodies of the first and second groups will achieve better existential security. So there is also a provision on the right to priority in employment, and that is good, the right to housing will be achieved by volunteers members of the fighting sector who have not gained the status of Croatian military disabled people and that is good. For Croatian wartime wartime people, subsidising the interest rate on housing loans is also envisaged, and that is probably good. And the widows of the dead Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War who are not employed in the life period of 45 to 50 years cannot exercise the right to a family pension under the general pension rules are now allowed to exercise the right to supply and that is certainly good. And not to list everything else that is good and that will take advantage of many and that they have signed I will not say a pamphlet but this text that I have received will also take advantage of these conveniences.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26411	Thank you very much. Next, the last replica, and respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26412	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, I would also like to not politicise about the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and that real improvements are the goal of helping Croatian defenders. I would also like to stress that I would be happy that by consensus we can pass this law as we have passed before when we came to common goals, interests and needs of the defence population that is responsible for freedom and independence of the Republic of Croatia. But as you can see, this is not a pamphlet written by the roof associations of the victims' population. These 7 are also joined by HVIDRA RH, which I am at the head of, clearly says that the Council of the Defence Ministers is not in the majority for the adoption of this law, that the working group that formed did not finish its part of the work, that the progress of the adopted decrees that would not be good for the population of Croatian defenders, and we were able to rule out all these items, given that the total level of budgetary resources at the positions of the Ministry of Croatian Defence, Pension Insurance, Health Insurance and the Ministry of Construction has been reduced by 142 million kuna. So, with that 142 million kuna, we could solve all these needs so that there would be no widows of the first and second groups but that they would all be equal. So there won't be volunteers on the waiting lists, and they'll never be welcomed. This is the problem, and this is what was not found a common solution in the attempts of the ministry, but it did not end up absorbing them in the community and the consultations that should have been done to the end with members of the defence population whose needs concern this law. He's being brought for them, not for the corny coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26413	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26414	I just don't believe that the defense associations have consulted, but why not a consensus, Mr. Djakic? Well, that doesn't depend on this part of the assembly, it's actually up to you. The fact that you are the head of HVIDRA I respect it, that you are also HDZ's representative and that I respect it and I will never say that you are politicizing this law, but it is certainly uncontestable that this law introduces a whole series of new rights, new solutions and that this is certainly in the interest of the Croatian defenders' population. Their position after the adoption of this law will certainly be better than it was yesterday and you have to admit it. And everything else is just politicizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26415	Thank you very much. We've finished the replicas and the answers to the replicas. It is up to the SDP representative club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26416	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. And what about the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers of the Homeland War and members of their families, which is not mentioned in these previous discussions? In the first reading, we argued about the Defence Register, about the rights of the widows, whether the guaranteed funds for the housing of the defenders, about the combat and non-combat sectors, sought status for members of the national protection in the light of the amendments and the addition of the law for the second reading, the reasons why certain proposals and opinions were not accepted were presented. It personally seems quite reasonable to me, and I am of the opinion that these amendments and additions of the law should be accepted. The SDP club will certainly support them. I've been older than 15 days, older and slightly smarter if what they're saying about age is true, so I believe it applies on days. I thought I'd write a bunch of smart words, deep and empty at the same time and present it to you, to the entire Croatian public for insight. I was going to write how good it is to take care of the defenders, how good it is to take care of the children of the dead defenders, how good it is to take care of those who haven't had a chance to take care of housing and spent two or more years in the war. I was going to say that I want a solution to the status of members of the People's Protection. I wanted to tell you from the soul that it's really fair to know who defended this handful of land we live in, who gave us from God who defended my stone, my sea in Dalmatia? That I'm really proud of my 113 brigade on the 142 brigade, the 4th Guard, the 7th Guard Coves that fought in the back of the water. Let those whom I have not mentioned forgive me, and there are many indeed. I thought I'd tell you that these amendments and the additions to the law are good, that the old law is also good, but it's been seven years since its adoption it needs to be improved a little bit. As the law is well implemented, how can we be satisfied with the amount of care for Croatian defenders, possibly a little bit of discussion about the budget and which items, to which money should be transferred or what item should simply be increased, about all such things, about the defenders, and then finally I decided. I won't talk about it. I'll tell you a story about a nameless Croatian soldier, a young man, a boy who is going to war at the age of 20 at the age of 91, whose war lasts for a month, a year, two, three or five years, a story about a warrior who defended his country. From the parents' home chair, the girl's coffee shop leaves for a newly defined war in civilians because Croatia had no money to equip the army, it was on importing equipment and weapons, in shoes, in a short-sleeve shirt because it was then summer, summer of 91st year. He's leaving full of heart with a desire to put his little brick in a solid wall of defense country. I will remind you of that time in 90, 91 when there was no consideration of the Law on Croatian defenders when there was no place to think about myself, when no matter how pathetic it sounds from this place, but it really thought about us, about our country, about our family of cities and villages. About how to preserve our way of life and our customs. I'll remind you of all those general hazard alarms, air dangers, plane attacks, long-range artillery, all those sleepless nights in shelters, the care in the hearts and souls of those who were on the first line, about families, younger sisters, brothers, parents. I'll also remind you of the tears of Bočina, Osijek, Škabrnja, Nadine on the tears of Vukovar, remember the report of HTV and the show for freedom, the guards that went in the evening. Remember the news of the Croatian Radio, they usually existed with the strong power of the MUP election National Guard. I will remind you of all the horrors of the attack, of our cities when my Sibenik was fought with extreme effort while Osijek, Karlovac, Sisak, Gospić, Dubrovnik, Sinj, Vukovar burned. I'll remind you of the days when Croatian Guards, Croatian soldiers, police officers were heroes. And now I call upon you to ask yourselves all together. Do we really think that all youth benefits, pensions for unloved girls, disability for a broken house? Do we think that all the horror of trenches can be replaced by at least shares of the defense fund, that we can bring back youth to all those who spent on battlefields when they were supposed to be with girls? Do we really think that all of this really stands in one law, so small, so insignificant in the face of human life, versus all of those great human things? Do we really think that this way we can get these people back? I'm not criticizing anyone here, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't have the right to, I don't want to abuse this pay phone, but I call you honorary people, I know that it is everyone here in order to imagine and put yourself in the skin of that Croatian defender who, in the year 91, went almost naked on the tank. Try to represent all the horrors, the wheezing of tank caterpillars, the noise of the tank's engine on the other side. It's about the horror of a man who's out there counting those 20 seconds from the trigger to the detonation, about the shooting of a VBR when you hear the shots in the city, then you count the 30 seconds they're giving you away from life or death. And now, all together, let us ask ourselves, do we really think that all this horror and pride and honor and honor and blood and happiness and sorrow is a single law. There's no good answer to that question. There's no comfort for the dead, there's no mother who hasn't cried, all the horror of war, all the irrationality, all the injustice and grief we're trying to see, correct in one law, and it's the law of man, to try to valorize things with money, apartments, something material, whatever we're trying to bring people back at least in the human way that we think we can do something. Unfortunately, we can't bring the dead back to life, we can't bring back the crippled, we can't bring back the hands, we can't bring back the children, we can't bring back the husbands. The fire of Vukovar in the depths of the souls of those who lived through it will never be extinguished. No matter how hard we try to fix things, help, how empathy they are, feel, no matter how much money we spend in the budget somewhere in the soul, all the people with the terrible experience of war are always left alone. You're born alone, you die alone. It's the first rule of war, no matter how many people die with you, unfortunately you're always alone. And it's a war, a terrible experience in which not the strongest survive but those with the greatest happiness. They're the ones who are the most late for the shell detonation, the bullet fuse. My view is that Croatian citizens have the right to know who their heroes are, even if they are young, we are not all like Gotovina and Markac, Jastreb and little Hawk like the late Blaga Zadar, Alfred Hill, Gavran Tomljanović, Pauk Matijaš, my commander, God Markovic. They were and were special, big people for hard times. But those who were at war certainly gave what they could because it was a war to survive, there was no choice. And so dear colleagues and colleagues let us differ today in our opinions, let us fight for the values that matter to us, that is democracy. That's good, that's good. Let's fight for our commitment, but one must be unquestionable and I mean not to think but I'm sure we all have to agree on that. All Croatian defenders are our people because they deserve that we are here today, that we have a future, a family that we have Croatia, that we are free people. Because if we go back in time, without their victim, things would certainly look very different. And if we tell them so, I believe that they will forgive us for being small and vulnerable because we have no financial or any other power always help them in their aspirations and in their pains, but they will know that we appreciate them and respect that we think of them and they are not alone. They'll be proud because we know that they've stopped at the defender's homeland, the horror of war, ready to give themselves to us for our country. And that is why it is necessary to publish the Registrar for the honor and pride of all true Croatian defenders, volunteers, guards, police officers, naked young men in the early 20s with a crown around their necks and a Croatian chess machine headed by their parents, brothers and sisters, wives and children so that they can be proud of the true defenders of Croatia, the creators of Croatia. There are no things that can pay for the dignity, pride, and honor of words that are so forgotten in today's world. And I'm sure that's true Croatian heroes, all Croatian defenders, most importantly, to know that Croatia is with them. The SDP club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26417	Thank you, too. We have five replicas reported to this exhibit. First respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26418	Your Honor, Mr. President. A fellow, pathetic emotion, last night Mr. Craig said on a TV show that politics is buying time and selling fog. Well, here I am, about this exposure of yours, so I'd qualify and nothing else. The central issue here is the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, the list of Croatian defenders and everything that has been given little more than one additional privilege, so that some of them will be camouflaged, which means the publication of Croatian defenders. I'm asking the Minister and you and everyone who's the target of the defense attorney's announcement? That's what we have to ask ourselves. Every law we bring here must have some purpose, a purpose. Is here to entertain the Croatian public and harass the Croatian public, and the economic topics last night until midnight when it's Easter and Christmas, and by tomorrow morning you'll put some topics on TV again. I argue that this is only a preparation for a sharp approach to Croatian defenders who will come in the coming times and nothing more because let's be realistic, it is a broad question in those 500 thousand. For example, former JNA Military Hospital employees moved to Croatia's Navy hospital and all these employees became defenders. One laboratory was a defender because it was time for the military hospitals of the Croatian war hospital to automatically become the Croatian army, etc. And now she'll be on some list where she has to defend herself because she was a defender, a woman neither guilty nor in debt. If there is one way to tell us correctly that we do not bother the Croatian public, who are those who have salaries or apartments... what have they got, is there any lies? And those who are 500 thousand have some honorary name Croatian defender, so now that we're harassing the public about it, let them have a million. And if someone's on... a box of cigarettes, let the name of the Croatian defender be called. [[Intruder: Time.]] I'm interested in whether there are any who have some material resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26419	And I'm interested in you using your time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26420	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26421	Replication response, dear colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26422	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Marasovic, they called me everything in my life but never a fog dealer, believe me. Here you are first and thank you for discovering another of my talents. Thank you very much. As far as your advances are concerned, I could say a lot, but I'm a well-bred man, a well-mannered boy, decent, in the spirit of Dalmatia, even a traditionalist in some ways, and that's why I have nothing to say to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26423	The second replica of the respected representative, Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26424	Thank you very much. My colleague Vidic, I agree most of the things with your emotional debate. You've explained nicely who the aggressor is, who the victim is, you've listed what's going on in the Republic of Croatia. and now I want to know why everyone or most of you is silent when colleagues from the Parliament continue to attack and call Croatia for ethnic cleansing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26425	Late. Zoran Vinkovic, third replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26426	Dear colleague Franco is a very inspired speech. And about the ethnic cleansing, it's a little bit late for Mrs. Rose, but first of all I want to add 122. The Đakovci brigade, add 46 Djakovchans who went to Vukovar, 250 killed from the Đakov and Đakovština areas. We were reminded of all those years and the days when we were attacked by the large-serb Chetish Yugoslav people's so-called. Army, so-called. People led by Slobodan Milosevic, led by various dukes, and this policy still lives today. And that is why, on behalf of all of them, the dead Croatian defenders, on behalf of all those who gave their lives for the freedom of Croatia, we can live here ourselves. The register was published, so all the defenders got those IDs, there's one. I ask that a list of rebel Serbs be published, asking for a list to be published of those who attacked Croatia in '91. A year. And what we're running from, is that normal? Is it normal to know who attacked Croatia, is it normal to know who destroyed Vukovar, who destroyed Djakovo, who destroyed villages and cities, Osijek, who attacked the Ban Courts. Is that normal, ladies and gentlemen MPs? It is a legitimate requirement for every Croatian citizen and every Croatian defender. In addition to this list, we publish a list of those who attacked Croatia because those who gave their lives for Croatia deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26427	Thank you very much. Replica's reply, the esteemed representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26428	Thank you, dear Vice President. As far as ethnic cleansing is concerned, the Croatian Army has never participated in any ethnic cleansing. That's my position, my opinion, but I think it's the attitude of both the prime minister and the president of the Republic of Croatia who spoke of it on many occasions. Therefore, I do not see that the Republic of Croatia has participated anywhere in any ethnic cleansing. Besides, so we can participate in ethnic cleansing in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We freed our country, we didn't clean anything. They and some others were cleaning something up, and occasionally they got dirty. We didn't clean anything, we freed our country. And as for this second part, my colleague Vinkovic, yes, I also mentioned in my speech that there are a lot of brigades and people who are responsible, which I simply can't count, there are a lot too many and it's good that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26429	Next replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vidovic, I could also talk a lot about this since all the time in the Homeland War from the first to the last day I was in various units and the MUP and reserves and guards and I remember all those days very well. Today I just want to say one thing, so it would be nice to bring together a law that will benefit Croatian defenders. I don't know why you don't want to understand that the perilous population through seven victims' associations that have been declared to have signed in this letter that I gave to the minister clearly speaks of not being satisfied with the bill's proposal, offering them something they don't see, feel, and will not be good for that population. The register of Croatian defenders is only one in a series of bone throws in front of a people who is jobless, with no money and who is in an increasingly difficult situation. So are the defenders. To promise the rights of some advocates who will never be achieved is equal to to encourage or throw gasoline on a burning fire. Be aware, the population of Croatian defenders really appreciates what has been made possible through the law so far, those improvements that should have been clearly needed to be manifested by material indicators in the budget and not. And so we can't say that we have something when we don't. We have a false hope, and that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26431	The replica corresponds to the respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26432	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Djakic, I would be happy to pass the law by consensus. It's obvious that there are, we said and we realized at the first reading, you have 100 reasons why not, we have 101 because we won the election so that one why something does. And it's just like that. I don't think anyone has the exclusiveity here, neither you nor I. I can speak for myself, on behalf of my party, but I have no exclusiveity to represent all Croatian defenders, but neither do you. So you represent one part of the defense population, as I represent one part of the defense population, but not all. And they're divided and I don't see anything wrong with it. As I said in my speech, it is a list of honest people, as the minister said several times the most honorable people surely in the Republic of Croatia. You said you remember those days, so there was no small thing then taken up arms, there was neither the Republic of Croatia recognised, there was nothing in fact, there was no army. Let's be realistic. The army formed on foot with the fall of the military, the abduction of weapons practically. Part of the weapon was imported, those numbers and whatever other devices, but in any case everyone who went at the time risked their own head, they risked in the event of a failure to establish practically a state to end up all in the case of the case, all in turn. I say, I'm sorry we're getting apart, I'm sorry about a lot of questions that we're getting apart, but that's democracy. We have the right to do that. And maybe it's not bad for us to part ways if it turns out to be something good. I think this law is good and it's good that it turns out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26433	And the last replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I responded to the replica because as defence minister for almost 6 years, I listened to a similar thought and a lot of what you said as a Croatian defender I heard, with a lot of compassion, a lot of things I saw. I agree with you, this is a time when, at the end of the debate on amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, we should be more united and complex and more together, but we will not be. The publication of the register of Croatian defenders will not contribute to this. It will not be a Christmas gift as the minister announced that everyone would be happy about. What I'm afraid of and what I was listening to as a minister, so when those discussions opened up about the publication of the register was a lot, a lot of believe in disdain. What I am afraid of is that the publication of the register of Croatian defenders will wake up some new tips, that they will wake up some who will not wish well to the defenders, neither to you on the one hand, nor to us on the other hand, nor to us on the other hand, nor to the top, nor to the bottom. And what I ask you to ask yourself, and all of us in this debate if even one Croatian defender who opposes publishing the register, and I know so much for different reasons, personal, human if he is crucified on a pillar of shame, if he is wrongly accused in the media, in various institutions that he has misused the law, and he has faithfully defended how you spoke to his country, is honorable, as you yourself said, he went to the defense of the country. If he's crucified on a pillar of shame and don't give God any of these people a hand to themselves, and I've seen a lot of them, who won't be able to bear that burden simply to accuse him. that he's being accused, and he's right. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] So what do we do? And that's the doubt we're discussing today. We who are not in favour of the register being published.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26435	The last answer to the last line, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26436	I'd like to thank the esteemed Vice President, my esteemed colleague. I don't believe it. I don't believe that publication of the defense registry can lead to anyone raising a hand to themselves. At the end of the defense register, you were the secretary of defense, the defense register was the thing that was formed during your term of office. I have to tell you, I don't like my name on any secret lists that I don't even have access to. And it's not good for me to know, man, honestly. But as for what the same Croatian public is often afraid of, it is the prosecution of some from Serbia. Well, they're pressing charges now. No register published, we have 300 indictments I mean for the Vukovars, I don't know 25 for some others etc. They're pressing charges now. I think it's a matter of Croatian diplomacy, the Croatian rule of law, to put these things in place, to vote for the people who fought for her eventually. In other things, I think we'd be able to agree, but in these two we certainly won't, and that's what I'm telling you, I don't believe anyone will raise their hand to themselves. Because I say honor again, pride. These people, however difficult they are on the one hand, all these people have that spark and that thread they had in their 1990s or 1990s. That's not why they put their hands on themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26437	One notice. In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure have expired in 10.42 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And now we're going to continue the club debate. The HNS club's position will be presented by respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. A few words on this subject after the first debate in which it was said quite a bit on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club. Homeland war, here it has been almost 17 years, in fact 17 years since the end of the war operations. In one war imposed on Croatian citizens, which no one was smart and responsible for. We are all, of course, and all of us would be able to return a round of history back to choose a peaceful path as a way to form a sovereign, free, democratic Republic. Unfortunately, the circumstances and the lack of responsibility of some outside our borders in these areas have led to bloodshed and aggression that has been followed by stifling the free will of Croatian citizens. This war, of course, was like any other war, had its conjecture, its consequences as the distinguished representative Kosor said only one victim of that war would be a great sacrifice, and when we remember the fact that the numbers of the dead, the missing, the prisoners, the disabled, the widows, the children without parents in thousands, we are all aware of the dimension of what the citizens of this country have been going through. Of course, as a society in its education, one that comes from raising individuals in the family, at school, among believers in the church and in other institutions, which we have deeply in rearing the rooted compassion and humanity of this society made up of such citizens after the war brought the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders to the fact that there are also people who have been killed on this path of creation of the Croatian state, that there are people who are both civilian victims of war and military victims. The defenders were taken care of in a way that passed the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defendants. The time for this generation of Croatian citizens changed the circumstances, and hence the need for amendments and amendments to the law was created, so we testified that several legal changes were made in this Visko home and that the circumstances in which this population and that generation lived were being monitored. And that's positive. In the first debate, I recently thanked myself on behalf of the CNS, but also as a defender, man and representative to those who made their larger or smaller contribution in the past years when it comes to taking care of Croatian defenders. Understand this law, especially this part that applies to certain corrections in the rights of Croatian defenders or members of their families, as just one in a series of laws that goes towards following a change of circumstances in the lives of those people we owe and be confident and it would be good, that is my personal opinion and us in the HNS, that in a few years we look back at what changed in the lives of these people and that according to the opportunities and good intentions that I believe we all share, we ensure that these people live with as little difficulty as possible and that they feel the consequences of that sacrifice they gave for the Homeland. I'm going to look back briefly on what's the basic paper of this law. This law provides the possibility of housing, i.e. assistance in housing care and Croatian defenders who are not Croatian wartime people, but have already arrived in late years. Many of them have lost a professional battle, many live quite scarcely and it is good that we have foreseen that possibility in this law. Certain additional opportunities have also been given to the widows of Croatian defenders. And that's where the polemics opened up during the first reading, and here are the clues to the dilemma today. I will take the liberty of ladies and gentlemen to remind you of one fact. A woman who, unfortunately, had been fired by a grenade or a bullet who had taken her husband and who had lived in that status for 10, 12 or 15 years was also a victim of the Homeland War. Many of them were raised by fatherless children, and of all things they had only the respect of Croatian society in general and one expressed through certain financial support. Let's not deny them ladies and gentlemen that respect, and let's not deny them the right to live. Because one thing's true is that once the victim remains a victim his whole life. And the fact that some of them or some of them have found a new emotion again, a positive emotion, find a new companion, support in life doesn't change the fact that the victims were and the victims were left. And I really think that we at the HNS find it unnecessary to create polemics about it. Because what's the alternative for us leaving them out of reception at the age of 45 or 50? Who's gonna hire them? I don't see him, at least not in this recession and crisis. Other questions related to our respect for the dead defenders have been arranged. The question of maintaining a cemetery, the fact that we give them and the certain historical significance that truly belongs to them. Certain sequential provisions have been introduced for those who do not respect the rights of Croatian defenders in employment, and that is good. And it would be good for us to introduce in all laws the conjectures for responsible persons to enforce those laws, which are not adhered to by the same laws. Because there's a lot of them. And the very fact that there are certain things that are not caused by conjecture creates a single freedom that often gives birth to temptation, and temptation gives birth to wrong moves. Finally, the largest controversy over the Croatian Defence Register, which has often gone towards the stigmatization of the register and the attempt to create perception that the register is some sort of a pillar of shame. Ladies and gentlemen, this register is a list of proud, list of worthy, list of those who have given their youth, many of them and their health and some unfortunately lives for what we have today and for the fact that today we are in this High House in a free democratic state discussing laws that should be better for Croatian society. Hypothetically, the publication of this defense registry will create difficulties. I don't think they hold water for the most part. Whether an isolated case will happen, and how subjectively, how will anyone subjectively experience this register, of course, that it is the right of many to be opposed, of course, that it is the right to be safe among Croatian defenders to be those who think it is not a good move, but that move was not any fog, that move was something that was apostropheded as one of the things that a coalition of parties today in power will do. And that was known before the election. The election was attended by defenders and members of their families. The result is clear from the number of MPs in this House. A lot of documents, much more data was printed in various publications not to list them all and this was mentioned during the previous debate. And whoever wants to know some of the facts can do it without the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, we finally put that list here in the Parliament of contexts that belong to him. It is a list of those who are responsible for this country and it is a list that should respectfully be read by generations of those who will sit in this home or walk the streets of Croatia when we are not there. There's no reason for us to see him differently. As for some other lists, I wouldn't identify them with this list. These are lists of a completely different character. How and how data can be obtained in the same way can be a free debate in this House, such representatives are entitled to do so on proposals. The democratic majority will make a decision. Finally, when we remember all those who gave their sacrifice in the creation of the Croatian state, those whose bullet or grenade stopped youth, life, those who were raised and walked without a father, women who were deprived of the first love or the greatest love or life companion, however anyone experienced it, when we remember all of our comrades who today's impaired health or with a high or higher degree of disability watching this debate on Croatian television, then what must be a fundamental thread of this kind of debate is my deep opinion. It is our duty that these discussions be at one level that is not even common in this House to be at the highest level, to be at the level of mutual tolerance, respect, respect for the ones I speak of. That we do not constantly remove the affairs and accusations from the closet, from the naphthaline, to leave everything bad on the subject of the Homeland War in this Assembly behind us, and that in these mistakes from the past of Croatian democracy in which we have, in the name of democracy, taken the right to politicise about the Homeland War, to spread unnecessary passions and tensions, to separate Croatian citizens, and even to encourage some international intolerance to leave it behind and in all future debates concerning the Homeland War and Croatian defenders, ladies and gentlemen without distinction to political options, without differences to the parties, without talking about this event of the affirmative period, let us approach these laws affirmatively and welcome any and even attempt, if it is a failure, if it is an attempt that goes in the direction of Croatian defenders, victims of the Homeland War, people who have given their health to create this better state. Such a level of debate will best preserve the integrity of both the defenders and the Homeland War itself. I don't think these people deserve to be on democratic grounds in the context of a debate which is of course necessary to witness and dissipate certain passions, mutual bickering, accusing, calling and so forth. On that threshold, with the best desire for future generations of Croatian politics to recognize the importance of this historic time and the contribution of those people who gave their victims. The HNS Club will of course support this law and in the future will support all those laws that follow the needs and changes in the lives of Croatian defenders and members of their family. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26439	Thank you, too. And on this exhibit, we have five replicas reported. First honorary representative Anna Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26440	Thank you very much. Well, you've told your colleague several times that this law provides the possibility of additional housing, that it brings the widows of the defenders to some additional rights, to insurance pensions, and then if they haven't turned 50, which is fine. But I'm correcting you, this law does not bring opportunities, this law gives these rights. And that's why we said that in our first reading. We'll do it again now. I read the explanation: "This law provides for the recognition of certain statuses and monetary rights and further for which there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for implementation." It's just impossible, this is impossible. So the insurance of additional rights of housing, therefore the circle of persons who are entitled to housing, which is good and desirable but are not provided with funds. The right to an increased family disability, the right to supply for widows and now explain how much money it is in the year, but the first position so far, in the current budgets where housing funds for the victims of the Homeland War have been secured has been reduced rather than increased. The position of the Ministry of Defence has not been increased, so the budget could be increased by this estimated amount of legislation to be proposed. So what we're talking about, you can't give people opportunities. A law is passed that gives them certain rights. When they have those rights, then in administrative proceedings they have the right to demand them and to receive them. It is not possible to fulfil all the rights given to these laws without increasing resources in the state budget. It's simply not possible, and that's why it can be a blur, and you know what the worst thing is, to promise people something and give them legal rights, and after that, we didn't promise you anything, we didn't provide you with the money in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26441	The replica is in line with the esteemed representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26442	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrin, I am truly grateful to you for your legal instruction, if you are an excellent lawyer, of course you can teach me what to do when it comes to formal matters and here's my excuse if I have wronged using the wrong terms or chasing concepts. You will forgive me as a layman who is not at your level of legal education. And as far as the figures are concerned, I would still leave it to those responsible who have made a commitment after they have proposed this law and brought it to debate in this Croatian High House that they are responsible for what will happen with the implementation of this law. There's Mr. Minister, that's his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26443	Second replica, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26444	Well, dear colleague Baranovic, we agree that we and you are also in favour of the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. However, I do not see obstacles since many of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who lived in that occupied part of Croatia were not against the Republic of Croatia. So I'm not looking for a list of such people, but I'm looking for a list of those who put on those Chetnik uniforms, carry the coke on their foreheads, wear that red star, be the citizens of the Republic, nothing will happen to them. I just think that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, families of Croatian defenders, dead Croatian defenders, all Croatian defenders have the right to know who they fought against. And this is a truly honorable list, and that list should be a list of warnings and we all know who we're dealing with. Is today many are cuddly, kind, good neighbors and good neighbors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26445	Next replica, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Baranovic, I'd also say that I can really see that this is in the interest of the defence population that it is good and I certainly support him regardless of the party's discipline on any political decision. Since I belong to the defence population, I will clearly read to you what the defense population is saying about what has been involved as amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. He says this way "The parliamentary deputies who will vote the text of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements must be aware that it is not the same as the result of consultations or public debates, nor the attitude of most members of the Defence Council, nor the position of most representatives of defense and victims' associations, but of political will over the defence population, justified by several examples of the same-minded in the ranks of defenders. If they are willing to support the promoter, not those which the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families are knowingly taking part in... democratic procedures and supporting the non-transparentity of the process." This was written by these 7 victims' associations, which are families of the imprisoned and missing Associations of Parents of the Dead, the Association of the Association of the widows of Croatian defenders, children of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, the Assembly of Veterans of the Guard Units, the Association of the Special Police and the missing signature here is HVIDRA that agrees with this attitude. Why don't you respect those whose law should be like theirs...? Why don't you respect the word of those you put in the minister's advice to contribute to the better and more transparent and secure life of these Croatian defenders?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26447	This replica is matched by the respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Djakić, you were a Croatian defender, as I am probably known to have been a Croatian defender from '91, I am not a member of any association, and many of my comrades are not members of any association. Reactions to both the forwards and the attitudes that I express are as likely to be obtained through writing form, through SMSs in direct contact with Croatian defenders, and so do I. And I have to tell you that the most congratulations I get from people from your HVIDRA. Let's not open a discussion about associations. They play their part in society, they advocate as much as they can to achieve the rights of their membership and Croatian defenders. They have different opinions, as some associations have one view, so in the democratic society of a particular association of Croatian defenders have a different attitude. And they give it to us in writing, and support what is today a theme in this House. Democracy is ultimately and beyond the system of opposing associations and their opinions, which are legitimately stressed legitimate, they have the right to do so, manifested also in parliamentary elections. Croatian citizens, defenders and their families with voting rights gave a clear basis in the elections for the work we are doing and for the responsibility we are acting in this mandate. When we lose that trust, it will be seen the week it comes out to the polls. As long as we have him, we'll win. That's my answer to your replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26449	A respected representative, Branko Bačić, also signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Baranovic, you say the Defence Registry is a list of honest and honest people with whom I agree, and you continue to speak if 1% of defenders have certain problems it can be a subjective impression that cannot justify the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. I absolutely disagree with you on that. If only one not 1% but one defender of the real Croatian defender is having problems in the first row of the judicial nature, it cannot be justified by the publication of the Defence Register more than the Republic of Croatia has a number of instruments to separate the rights of the defenders within that register from the false defenders. And secondly, this law lays down a new right to the housing of combat sector members who have not acquired HRVI status in the Homeland War, and they have spent at least two years, which is one way worth their long-term participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. I do not understand that the Ministry of Defence did not determine the number of such potential beneficiaries of housing, how much this will be in the next period for the state budget because it is not possible that there will now be fewer people who have the right to housing than it has been before, and according to the State budget in 2013, 50 million kuna has been established on the housing of Croatian defenders, in the next 42 million, and in 2014. 33 million kuna. I don't know, you said it was a formal matter of the promoter to define how he would enforce this legal provision that we adopted today. It's not a formal thing, it's a fundamental thing that we give someone the right, we allow the state to solve the housing issue, and at the same time, we don't provide them with the means by law to provide that housing. I think...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26451	There will be a response to this replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26452	Here, I'll finish. I think that such an approach is absolutely guilty and will only create additional problems in the defense population.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26453	There will be a reply to the replica of respected Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The issue of consequences for defenders, not defenders in particular, not the vast majority of honest Croatian defenders who fought in accordance with the Geneva Convention and with all the positive postulates of war law will not have consequences for it, be sure. But one of those who are formally on the list of Croatian defenders in another context might have problems if we are a legal state and we are dealing with the truth. Because after the Croatian generals were released on the Hague tribunal from the burdens they were carrying unfairly, the responsibilities they did not have objectively for what happened, and it happened, then make sure that the country that normally operates legally will in the coming years identify and bring justice to justice. The fear of those people who have killed civilians and burned houses, a burned country, who did not have the authority or the permission of Croatian citizens to do such things regardless of the crimes committed by the Croatian people both in Vukovar and in Škabrnja, that fear cannot be the fear of a total Croatian society or that burden should be borne by all the citizens of this country. If such people are to deal with controversies through legal processes for what is eventually revealed to them and prove that they have committed it, then neither Croatian public nor Croatian citizens nor this High House, nor the defence population that I am stressing in the largest number of wars under the Geneva Convention, regardless of what we experienced as a people both in Škabrnja and in Vukovar. We fought in the highest number honestly, honorably, as honorary soldiers of the honorable state. And the price of anyone who doesn't need to hover over that truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26455	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, at one point you said that every effort to help any defender is to say hello, and I agree with that, and I believe we all agree. But the effort needs to be carried out in action, something needs to be done. We can't be aware that we're just going to find out we need to do something and do nothing. The biggest problem is that only when the media discovers a case, when a case is found out one way or another, is it then reacting. But honestly, for a year now, there's been this power, and I'm not going to re-absorb that case, but I guarantee there are cases like this just about as soon as the media haven't found them, they haven't published them, and these people just haven't experienced it to help them, and they need help. I said, mentioning from the pay phone today, I think the man's name is Pejanovic, a lawyer from Sisak, whom his own children simply took and assigned to another family for care. The man simply raised his hands, fortunately still not on himself but on himself, but these are the cases with which this ministry, or services within the ministry, should be dealt with, and not only to be reduced to office work and now to the recipient of applications, to solve applications and the sweets of the refusal, or to some I don't know what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26457	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26458	Dear fellow Members, I agree with you that such cases should be cared for in the best possible way, and I agree with you that unfortunately so far there have been situations where Croatian defenders have been left in a way of mercy, in the cleanliness, but precisely because of this, by supplementing the laws of those who have been fully positive and context-adjusted so far, and also by the future additions of this law that we have today, we need to create a system that clearly defines who is responsible and who is in charge of taking care of Croatian defenders at the highest level possible because it guarantees complete, systematic, quality care for those people who deserve it. Leaving the case of this problem is not a good practice. I know that's what's happened so far, because unfortunately no law is perfect, neither have these so far, nor is this one today, and it's not likely to be the future that's being brought to this topic. And I personally witnessed some situations, and in some, even personally, as a man and a friend, I helped. It is the duty of all of us, but it is the primary duty to create a system and, through legal standards that will be quality adopted, open the way for real care to Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26459	Thank you very much. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, Tomislav Ivić and Josip Djakic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26460	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families. In the debate during the first reading, we also presented key reasons why we do not support amendments to the law. The fact is that the amendments to the law are only proposed for one reason, and this is the publication of the register of Croatian defenders. It should certainly be pointed out here that the Republic of Croatia has a well-developed system of care for Croatian defenders and members of their families, but that is understandable above all about the victims of the Homeland War, so to the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, and the disabled of the Homeland War. Over the last eight years of separation from the State budget has been more than doubled, and today it amounts to more than six billion kunas. And what should be particularly stressed is that the law has been strictly implemented over the past 8 years, so it was enforceable according to the state's material and financial capabilities. That during the past period, dubiosis has been resolved according to the defence population, for which more than two billion kunas have been allocated from the state budget. That a whole series of projects and programmes have been launched, that the agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina has resolved the issue of members of the Croatian Defence Council, that the Croatian Defence Fund has been established and established, and the foundation and scholarship fund of which the defence population has benefited greatly. The system of care should be upgraded and therefore some amendments are acceptable to us, and we are not against them as an extension of the right to housing for volunteers who have spent two and three years in the Croatian military, respectively. But it is completely unacceptable to explain that they do not need additional funding, especially knowing that the Republic of Croatia has so far allocated 16 billion kuna for housing care, and that 35,000 Croatian defenders have been resolved. We have no law or projection at all of the number of defenders who are going to get it right, and we know that at the moment 13100 Croatian defenders are waiting for a housing solution. So we are essentially making promises to defenders that we know in advance that we will not be able to solve them in the next 50 years and that they are not and will not be provided with the resources in the State budget. Nothing worse than false promises. We also cannot support the realization of the pre-election promise to the Kukuriku coalition on the publication of the Croatian defenders' register. We have warned and warned and now that there are serious obstacles from legal, security, to the precedents you will make, which is that the Republic of Croatia will be the first country in the world to publish such a list, and it is about lists that are normally protected data. You are neglecting the fact that public announcements will lead to the fact that the street will actually assess and judge whether or not someone was a Croatian defender, that it will open up many discussions and disputes, including judicial disputes, and that it certainly leads to further divisions in the defence population. I'll say it again. We're not against checking. We are aware that among the 500,000 Croatian defenders there are those who do not belong there and that the state has all the instruments to check each such case and sanction it. But we are opposed to the intention to question the entire population because of individual cases. You will reopen the stories and debates on the topics that we should have completed a long time ago. Croatia is tired of these topics and stories and difficult words or is just as the defence associations say in their statement to draw attention from important problems, to throw bone among the people and to remove people's thinking from the catastrophic economic and economic situation, from the fact that there are 350,000 unemployed, permanent gatherings on the stock market, the announcement of new tax presses and harras towards Croatian citizens, with the fact that Croatian citizens are barely joining the end, that this government has nothing to boast about and that it offers no perspective. And that instead of discussing the dreary Croatian everyday life, we are re-imposing the issues of '91, '71, '41. year which can only cause new, old divisions in Croatian society. Because of all this, as I said, the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support this law. This seems to me to be the first time in nine years that we haven't had a representative of any defense organizations at the gallery. Mr. Ministers should ask themselves why today there are no representatives in the Croatian Parliament of those we are discussing today and making amendments to the law? As a rule, the gallery was always full and whenever the last nine years discussed legal proposals for Croatian defenders was generally agreed and the vast majority of defence associations were, as I said in the replica, supported the new law that was passed in 2004, but all changes including the government's decision to cut wages by 10%, which is obviously not the case today. And the stories of the defenders being republished are thus falling into the water. Thank you very much, and colleague Djakic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26461	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, namely, the HDZ Representatives Club, and I could agree with this law if these eight amendments were put on the bill as a club and adopted. I'll say something on behalf of the club about them. We propose to leave the status of the family of the deadly victim of the Croatian Homeland War defender, who, as a result of the disease as well as the obligation to improve the causal link between the disease involved in the Homeland War, since the most common causes of the death of Croatian defenders are recorded in the last few years as a result of the behaviour of the service, i.e. the deterioration of the disease or the occurrence of the disease. In particular, many cases of Croatian defenders died of malignant cardiovascular and other diseases that are associated with the deterioration of the health status of Croatian defenders caused by the deaths in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. According to official data from the Ministry of Defense in '95. By 2011, nearly 12,000 Croatian defenders died, representing an increase in mortality of one hundred and sixty percent. In 2010 alone, 2187 defenders died, and 2354 defenders died in 2011. The largest number of defenders died of cancer and the result of a heart attack and stroke while the suicide rate is 10%. Which means that suicide has been committed by 2,000 defenders and has shown from the practice and medical skills of the defence attorneys that cumulative war stress can serve as a trigger and cause the disease that develops gradually. Since it is evident that there is an increased and alarming number of deaths of Croatian defenders as a result of the disease, i.e. the worsening of the disease. the stroke is necessary by medical skill to determine the causal link between death due to disease and participation in the Homeland War. The provisions of the applicable law, as well as the teaching final draft of the law, completely abolish this basis for recognising the status of the deadly Croatian defender, who, on the basis of current data on the mortality of Croatian defenders, is the most common and the possibility of professional medical skill is abolished for the purpose of proving the cause of death. On the basis of all this I have given you in order to properly determine the right to recognise the status of the deadly Croatian defender, as well as the rights of the family to a family disability and family pension due to the cause of the death of the Croatian defender, we will suggest that the amendment to the law and that we are aware that 40 million kuna is less in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, that another 47 less in the space of the Ministry of Civil Engineering which was for the purposes of Croatian defenders and housing, that the total amount of the health system and the pension system of construction and defender is reduced by 142 million kuna we think that this population of widows who remain after Croatian defenders who died and died as a result of the wound or later illness and related to the behaviour of the service should also be included in this law. As for jobs, we welcome the sharping of the teeth of the legal sanctions that will be applied to those employers who will not hire Croatian defenders, and the priority of employment and so far has been given to Croatian defenders as well as children of the dead. However, it has been played many times. The law now deprives the advantage of employment in the case of employment in business jobs which have been identified by law or other legal regulations as managing jobs in public administration bodies. And we oppose such discrimination against Croatian defenders who have been perfected through the Croatian Defence and Scholarships Fund, educated and have come to one of the real titles that can behave in service and in such places in public institutions I don't know why I can't make it impossible for them to be the public service executives. This seems to me to be made only for the needs of those who will be workers in the lower categories of employment. What about the other amendments we've prepared? The organized construction is carried out through the Ministry of Defence in cooperation with the Agency for Legal Transport and Property and the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning. This is where we ask that everything be put in the Department of Defense so that you have control over a series of irregularities that have been happening so far in the construction of housing facilities, i.e. in the non-quality operation of the Ministry of Civil Engineering as regards supervision. Well, today I know you have a lot of problems improving these living conditions. There's no insurance that can compensate for unquality construction and that's hard to fix. Parents, widowers or widowers of the death-suffering Croatian defender from the Homeland War Depending on the established degree of damage to the organism have the advantage of housing in the homes of social care. I also have an amendment to which we would like to say that, on the final draft of the law, the advantage of housing in social care homes is recognised only by Croatian wartime people of the Homeland War that from 100% damage to the body and is more expensive to 80% of the physical damage. We would suggest there to be for everyone since indeed those with a smaller percentage of damage to the organism are also with smaller incomes, with fewer opportunities and accommodations and concerns and concerns and concerns and these are in the most invisible position. As far as the Croatian defenders' register itself is concerned, we want to improve this amendment with an amendment, but not to mention everything, the consequences and everything that will be. I just want to say one thing, allow every one of you what is democratic and constitutional law that comes out of Article 37. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to allow a general part of its data on the web portal with its written statement. Then you will certainly not make a mistake, then we will raise our hand for it, and respect this amendment and so it will be, and then you can say in a statement that you are asked to publish my general part, I allow a special part to be published. Then I have nothing to be ashamed of. I'm afraid and I'm really scared and I'm really warning both this House of Highers and you ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I know there's no responsibility, it's hard to bear any responsibility when it's too late. I warn you and beg you, consider these amendments by tomorrow, see, let's improve this situation, let's bring together a consensus that will benefit Croatian defenders and then the HDZ club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26462	Thank you. It's the replicas. First on the presentation of Mr. Ivic, Josip Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26463	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleague Ivić and in the first and second reading here, I think we all agreed that the previous law was good and that this was just an upgrade to this law. There's five, six things changing there, but as far as I can tell, you don't see the forest from the tree and the most I can see is how much you're talking about in the publication of the register. So then I'll look back on it, and last time I said in the replica, you quoted that publication of the Register,... that the street will judge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And last time I asked, which street, what street? Who's gonna be on the street? Do not scare people with the street, the Croatian state is a legally regulated state and if any irregularities are observed in that register it will not judge the street be without worry. The challenge of the street isn't exactly, it's a dangerous thing actually I'm asking you not to mention such a dictionary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26464	Replication response, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26465	Thank you very much. My colleague, you said that I did not see the forest from the tree, but you from the forest not wood and here I said that the law that was in force so far was an enforceable law and that it was the greatest value of this law that all obligations towards Croatian defenders to the last lip were respected, that we solved all the dubiosis we inherited in 2003 when we came to the Ministry of Croatian Defence, they were not small. And secondly, my colleague, I agree that Croatia is a legal state and Croatia has all the instruments that if it suspects something, in someone's status it also legitimately checks through institutions. And that's what I stood for, and now I stand for it. The state therefore has all the instruments to check certain doubts that exist, and you will not convince me, however, that by putting the register of Croatian defenders on the board and by publishing it online we are essentially putting it on board will not decide the street, and that they will decide and you will see what all of this debate in Croatia will be caused by the publication of the register, and I am convinced that this will result in the number of mutual accusations by the defenders but also by numerous charges and charges by the court defenders against the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26466	Dinko keg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26467	Thank you. Dear colleague Ivić, I will also look back on your statement that the street will decide and determine who is and who was not a fake Croatian defender. We don't need to be afraid of who he is and who he wasn't, who he belongs to in the register, who isn't going to be determined by the competent institutions, but that the street as you say it is, and I would say not the street but the Croatian citizens of the Real People's War, our comrades point to those institutions not to those who are there, but to those who don't belong there. It will not lead to a situation where there will be a fight and a dispute between the real participants of the Homeland War, but I am convinced that all of them will be united together against those who, in the Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, are not the place and in this it is only possible role and importance as you say the streets, I would say our fellow Croatian citizens, whose duty I expect will be to indicate and expose all those who are among the honorable people whose place in the register is unlike those whose place in that register is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26468	Replication response, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26469	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, my colleague Buric is not me for hiding and hiding those who do not belong in the Croatian Defence Register. I'm just for the rule of law and the institutions of this state to do their job and they have that opportunity and they've been doing it all these years. The Minister of then Mrs Kosor and, in my 2.5 years, how many Croatian Defence Ministers I was daily came to dozens, especially when the falsh register was published on dozens of anonymous letters but also signed where, as you say, citizens or comrades reported suspicious circumstances of obtaining the status of Croatian defenders. All these anonymouss, all the signed applications were submitted where they belong, passed to the State's Attorney's Office, were forwarded to the MUP, the MORH, the Military Police and, therefore, in several recent years, 2.5 thousand people have been deleted from the list of Croatian defenders. After it was found that, for this or that reason, in the opposite way, they acquired the status of defenders, they were deleted from the Croatian Defence Register. So I'm into that kind of variant. Check that every day, but not a hack, not a question of all 500 thousand people. And this way, by publishing the register, we question all 500 thousand people. And the fact is that it will be debated in both cafes and in the street and in places where such discussions should not be conducted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26470	And Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26471	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Since fellow Ivić has reused that term so that it can happen that about defenders who are on the list of the Register of Croatian Defence Courts of the Street I assume that you were thinking, first of all, of what we call public disgrace, public humiliation. Once someone has experienced public disgrace and humiliation in that sense that the media or someone else has called him a liar, so that he lied to the state and that he lied to the public, that he lied to his family about being a defender, and that it is not, or that he is, on that basis, entitled to it, it is, if it is not true, nothing, and can never be fixed. I'm warning you of something else, so that shame if it happens, and unfortunately I'm sure it will, then in the rule of law, it won't be just that individual's name and last name, but ultimately his commander. Namely, do not forget the status of Croatian defenders were given among other things on the basis of the signature of the commander. And I will not now list all commanders of the victorious Croatian army who could be indirectly disgraced. And just before my colleague Ivić mentioned here while I was almost 6 years Minister of Croatian Defence, Mr Ivić was State Secretary. Every tip, every indication anonymous, signed and we've been delivered and that's the rule of law to the State Attorney's Office or USKOK because the Ministry of Croatian Defence has not even been any segment of persecution except, of course, the MUP, therefore, only the institutions that are authorised to prosecute and ultimately prosecute the courts. And finally, Mr. Ivić, I remind you that some of the employees of our own ministry, whom some defenders have indicated have abused their positions in the ministry itself, we have tried to sanction But that's another story. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Unfortunately, these employees, too, eventually returned to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26472	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26473	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I agree, of course, with what you said and that is the fact that this is going to happen and that is why we are against this publication of the register. And what you said was that if only one Croatian defender had problems while crossing the border, when carrying out information on his war route, and then it was later found that what was presented was not true then the register certainly did not have to be published, and that will be. You will see what happens and what kind of problems all the problems and processes will be after the publication of the register. It is true that in those two mandates during the HDZ government, we did not deal with politics and politics, but worked in the interest of Croatian defenders. And that is why I have stated on behalf of the club some of the projects that we have implemented, and that is essentially the task of the Croatian Defence Ministry, to care for and care for the present, and perhaps more about the future of Croatian defenders, rather than having empty debates on certain things that are not crucial for Croatian defenders, are not important. Croatian defenders are interested in how they will live and how their children will be educated, what is actually interested in all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And we are constantly going back in time, trying to use this issue for day-to-day political purposes, which is certainly not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26474	And now the replicas of the presentation of fellow Djakic. Ivan Shuker first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26475	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Djakic, you're right. With the amendment of this Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and the granting of some new rights, it wants to cover up the real reason, which is the publication of the Defence Register. Because if it is the real intention of the minister and these governments to help Croatian defenders, then they will adopt these amendments that will be proposed by the HDZ Club for the simple reason that these amendments are accepting a new state. Because Croatian defenders today are 17, 18 years older, with new problems, with new needs, which unfortunately at the time of writing this law 5, 6 years ago could not be predicted. And, Mr. Minister, if you really want to help not only through the media to write to General Dedakovic and many others, then you need to adopt these amendments proposed by HDZ and then you will really show that you want to help Croatian defenders. If you do not do this then it is evident that your message in public, in fact the message of the Minister in the public of Djakic that he is indeed the only real reason, which is that he will publish the register for Christmas. I'll talk about the register later in an individual discussion. But, Mr. Minister, when you propose some legal rights...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26476	The replica of fellow Djakic, not the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26477	And I can tell the minister but it's at Djakic's hearing, but it's the minister's warning, and counterpart Djakic said the same thing, so he knows what I'm saying. So, counterpart Djakic, if the minister proposes some law law, then he must secure the funds for it, but unfortunately in the past few days we have been arguing to propose strong laws that will please the Croatian public, and there is no money for them. Therefore, because of the ageing population of Croatian defenders, the budget of Croatian defenders must grow. I can't secure new rights if there's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26478	Thank you. Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26479	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, yes, it is true that we want to hire unemployed Croatian defenders, 26 to 30 thousand of them even from the total number of unemployed, but we are reducing the funds for the recruitment of Croatian defenders in the budget and these legal provisions that would essentially be commendable, which would be good for Croatian defenders, would be an improvement if there were really insurance funds. But if we have reduced in all the positions needed for Croatian defenders, for 142 million kuna budget then we cannot say that Croatian defenders can hope for something better. I can hope for a dead letter on paper because she will not get her rights to be voted in this law. That this is also how Croatian defenders realized that the purpose of the publication of the register was also clearly spoken about today's memo sent by the roof associations of the victims' population and the Special Police to which the HVIDRA of the Republic of Croatia joined. They also see that there is nothing of the agreement that has been defined by the agreements that defense associations have signed with the Croatian Defence Ministry and that further work and cooperation is coming into question. The Croatian Defence Ministry, counterpart Shuker, is not formulated and formed to bring political assessments but to worry about the needs of Croatian defenders and those in the most threatening situation. Most of the laws have defined the rights, what should have been complemented should have remained within the frameworks of budgets which unfortunately do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26480	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26481	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Djakić, this law provides for the recognition of certain statuses and new monetary rights to Croatian defenders and we have nothing in the HDZ club or I personally against the right to the housing of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, volunteers with at least two or three years of participation in the Homeland War to provide them with an apartment. However, here in the past... years, at the position of the Croatian defenders' housing, the Republic of Croatia has spent about 16 billion kuna. It is not clear to me, I would ask that the minister explain to us and to the entire Croatian public how it is possible to introduce monetary rights, and that at the same time no additional funds should be provided for them in the state budget as stated on page 29 of this law. Not only is there no additional funding provided, but what I have said before, in two positions in the state budget relating to the housing of persons with disabilities and defenders in the Homeland War, in the position of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and in the positions of the Defence Ministry, the total reduction in the amount of housing over the next three years. So I don't understand how we're going to make it possible now to increase the number of defenders who will be entitled to housing while at the same time in the positions of the state budget, in those positions that should enable this new right to be reduced. I simply can't understand it, and I'm sorry that such a good idea to enable volunteers who have participated in the Homeland War for three years, as provided by law, to enable them to live care, to make it possible for them by this law to declare it, and to really, through the positions of the state budget, make it impossible for them to do so. I don't know when the laws were working normally had to be done parallelly and an assessment of the financial impact which was the assumption that some law could be proposed. I'm interested in that form... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26482	Replication response, Josip Djakic. Please watch on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26483	Comrade Bačić, you're absolutely right. What do you say? We create new obligations in the state budget and in the Ministry of Defence, and we haven't even solved 13.5 thousand HRVIs waiting on apartments lists. They are disabled with 20 to 50 percent of the damage to the organisms that have already grown up and can no longer benefit from the privilege of having children enter the family, so they are reduced by the cost of paying off the apartment. So they're already being punished for just growing up and leaving them, they can't use them as family members anymore. It's on one side. On the other hand, the creation of this obligation while at the budget level of the Ministry of Construction from 16 million to 9, almost by half, only for half where construction is written, while we have in the making of apartments in Dubrovnik that we can't even complete the funds for these apartments. But where, in order to grant commercial loans with a preferential interest on these, say, 6 or 7000 waiting on the lists. I would also like to welcome volunteers to provide housing. They deserve it. They were lucky, they didn't get killed in the Homeland War, but there's no money. As soon as we reduce such terrible positions in all the parts that monitor the care of Croatian defenders by 142 million kuna, we can't hope that in future time they will sort themselves out somehow. The only thing you can assign is that part that's... State housing, but that's not enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Department of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, which is the most prospective, state agencies as well as state-owned companies that can give these apartments. This is too little to satisfy those needs that are on the lists, let alone the new 40,000 volunteers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26484	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26485	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Djakic, here I don't know we've talked a lot about not being insured in the budget for all these many rights given to this law. I would be interested in whether there is still a commitment of PFU, so-called PFU under the new Croatian Government's Rules of Procedure. an assessment of the financial impact of the form to be approved by the Ministry of Finance on the occasion of the adoption and proposal of each law if it still exists. I would be very interested to know who signed this PFU form and the financial impact assessment for this law. But I'll talk about something else. You mentioned that you mentioned an excellent amendment to Article 35 of the basic law or Article 8 of this law which speaks of the rights of advantage in the employment of Croatian defenders and members of the families and children of the deceased defenders where, in an explanation that does not normally correspond to the text of the article in the law, it is said that the rights of Croatian defenders are spread, because they are introduced into persons who are obliged to respect this right and legal persons with public authority other than legal persons owned by units of local self-government, state and state bodies. It is, however, one small extension to some agencies, chambers, etc. But they're not said to be drastically reduced by that right. Why are they shrinking? Because it prevents them from applying with the advantage of a job opportunity to all the leading places. Why does the defence minister and the promoter, why, ultimately, Prime Minister Milanovic and his government underestimate Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders who have been educated, who are highly educated that they cannot apply with priority to leading jobs when a competition is called under the same conditions and for all others so-called. The usual places I can. And why in the end you didn't even need to write this for the state authorities and for the state administration because you've already suspended the competition for all the executive jobs, so the defenders wouldn't be able to apply for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26486	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26487	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Lovrin, it's clear that everything that's been done as good at funding schooling, i.e. The scholarship from the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders falls into the water when she today, with a college education or a master's degree or a doctorate who has achieved Croatian defenders, cannot apply and have an advantage in employment. This is a clear message that Croatians do not need educated Croatian defenders, that they can not be the manager because they probably do not meet the criteria introduced by the coalition. I am afraid that this discrediting of Croatian defenders will certainly not help them in further employment, and this in law is also offensive to all those who have fought hard to gain title and diploma so that they can continue to lead certain and public institutions to the welfare of Croatian citizens who in these institutions understand differently the needs of Croatian defenders who are not well enough and are not in those institutions as they deserve it. I believe that this amendment, which we have referred to as a club, that the minister but also the ruling coalition will respect all aspects and needs and that this legislative provision that says that there is no room in public administration bodies for the leaders of Croatian defenders who have all the same conditions as all others who report to the tender to be deleted. I ask you ministers to think about this, because this is really discrediting all those who have been educated and who wanted to achieve the most in the Croatian homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26488	And Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26489	Thank you. Dear counterpart Djakic, the thesis that the publication of the Croatian defenders' register would endanger possible individual Croatian defenders, above all, those who do not live in the Republic of Serbia or the Republic of Serbia. And in that sense, your proposal, an amendment to allow individual defenders who do not want their data to be published, believing that they will be threatened or safety where they live, could be acceptable. It could indeed be acceptable, but perhaps the minister should consider it. But it should be stated that this really applies only to those Croatian defenders who do not live in the Republic of Croatia. Because I don't think any Croatian defender living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia will want to, but he will fear that he will not be left out of the Croatian defence register by chance, let alone to ask for it. There's no reason to ask when the law offers him, though even the things I think belong. The only possible reason that one of the Croatian defenders living in the area, those in the register of Croatian defenders, not Croatian defenders, who lives in the Republic of Croatia for me, could be to avoid the possibility of finding his name and being thrown out to the public court, and the activities of institutions when it comes to how and under what circumstances it is found in the register of Croatian defenders. So, you might think about it and think about those Croatian defenders if they really request that they not be in it just on condition that they are defenders who are no longer living in the Republic of Croatia. Let all others be revealed, and let them be seen who is right, and who is a false defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26490	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26491	I would like to agree with you, and I am glad that you recognize at least one segment that is threatening the safety of Croatian defenders. But if we all thought together in common with our Croatian Defence Minister how sensitive and ticky the subject is, and I'm going to say what you think about those who go to their relatives and live in the Republic of Croatia, they go across the border? What would you say now about your resident from Osijek who ended up in Toronto and was interned there and served his sentence? What would you say about Mr. Dina Kontic, who was being punished in that group, served time in prison, went to visit Toronto, and now he's in prison. Because our judiciary hasn't wiped the stain off his face and we need to intervene to help him let him go. What do you think of all those who worked in our intelligence services and communities in gathering intelligence that will be found on that register? If we're going to discuss specifically what you think about the citizens of Serbian nationality who were even in enemy troops who worked for our service? If we're going to be honest with each other, aren't we jeopardizing their safety? Aren't we jeopardizing the national security of the Republic of Croatia? Who will ever again, by any intelligence, give our officers or services information or be an associate if all these lists are published? These are issues which are of a security nature and which should be well, wisely considered in the smart state, assessed and given by the court and the National Security Council should be discussed in order not to bring about what threatens all those in such an unfavourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26492	Thank you. The word was requested by a proposing representative, Minister Predrag Matic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26493	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As I said at the beginning, I thought I wasn't answering the conversation, but since most of you here are not familiar with certain things, and if the Croatian public is following us, I have to intervene because there is a very large series of untruths here. Of course, what's been going on for the past 20 years, forming the truth right, clouding the truth and emptying the story. So, the first story they sold you and they shared this pamphlet here, Mr. Cain said he wouldn't call a pamphlet but it's a pamphlet. So, for all of you who do not know in Croatia, 1160 associations from the Homeland War work. The Law on Associations treats them all exactly the same, and here a statement has been sent to six organizations where I see honorable names, here even there's no signature, so it's the form of a special war as it's done. There are no associations on the balcony that you once needed as support, as support, as encouragement and as a means of pressure on other parliamentary representatives. I said at the beginning of my term, and I stay with it as long as I'm a minister, and my biggest advantage is that I wouldn't kill for being a minister unlike some others and I can't wait for my term to end because this is a pain in the ass, and here I'm sick of it the most. I'm lucky I was in camp, so it's a lot easier for me right now. ... You especially don't tell me anything. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26494	Not throw it out of the bench. Don't get it from the bench. You have the opportunity to argue and you have the possibility of replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26495	At the beginning of the term of office, I told the associations that they would be my partners, that I would work very closely with them and cooperate, but that they would not be the ones to run politics like they were in previous years, and they certainly won't be as long as I'm the minister. When someone else is, let's keep running the policy. I gave myself a little effort here while you were talking, so this pamphlet signed as I said 0.005% of the Homeland War Association. Now that these are the biggest representatives, they're not representatives and so on. You know for yourself, and that's what I said last time, that with the defenders, it's not worth 100 people, 100 protégés. For them, it's worth 100 people, 125 proboscis. Because I have data, for example, when it comes to the rights and status of widows where they send me an email in which they very much support me, then in two days an e-mail arrives that they don't support me, and then they say it's a good provision, and then they say it's not. And I am once again speaking here by amending and supplementing this law provides for more than 10 fully positive and affirmative provisions that improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. However, you've reached the register and that's what hurts you the most. So, it is mentioned here when the register was made and when the late President Tudjman spoke after the war that there were 350 thousand defenders, when the register worked then it was found that many members of the Croatian Army were at the beginning when there were no Croatian military members and the Police, and later they moved to the Croatian Army troops and we had Peru Periæ on two lists, and then by establishing the register we put it on one list. So the math says there couldn't have been more then there could have been only less. When you speak also to draw attention to any other problems that Croatia has, and there are, last time you also asked me some questions about agriculture, about education, about health care, about what not. Unfortunately for me, it's not my portfolio and I don't influence it. That something could have been better done probably and is, but after 20 years of systematic devasting Croatia is difficult for a year anything is done. I work as defence minister and take care of Croatian defenders and their problems. Again, so where's the blur going? He says there is no need to introduce a right for which no funds are provided, according to the esteemed representative Lovrin and Mr. Bacic. We keep having, constantly we have a lot of pressure on housing, and we don't have solved issues and housing funds, which means according to your logic, and then we should be more honest, so we shouldn't have consumed that right from the start because it's just impossible. So again I'm telling you, by this change and addition, Croatian volunteers, the fighting sector that spent many years in the Homeland War for me are bigger victims than 20, 30% disabled and have the right to be on this list. And we will continue to share 200, 300 loans or apartments as we did in previous years, only who will be the head of the list we will see now that after the New Year we make a new list. Only 200, 300 so many funds will be settled, and whether there will be 13 and a half thousand as many as there are now, or if there are 135,000 if there are so many more, 200 to 300 loans will be distributed again as there are. We're talking about strict law enforcement, Mr. Ivić was talking about strict law enforcement, about us implementing the law. One of the provisions that no one here mentions is that, in the previous period, according to the claims of members of the Croatian Defence Council, 11 million kuna was paid neatly by the Croatian State, this year 40 million, and if we continue to strictly implement the law and introduce some of the provisions, it is 62 billion kuna and it is strictly law enforcement also 62 billion. In the end, you're going with the biggest pressure, and I have to answer that. So let's put the thesis upside down or you set it upside down and correct it, so far we've killed 2,000 Croatian defenders, maybe because they had to look at those who used rights and who might have belonged to them and they're looking to use the others. I don't want to be a bookie here and play with that kind of stuff, but let's set up that thesis. So far, when everything was fair, fair, fair, 2,000 defenders have been killed, so here I am taking responsibility to see how many will be killed after the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. Names for eternity, these are the best Croatian sons who will be on the list and in the register of Croatian defenders. To those who don't belong there, it's not. You have repeated one inaccuracy again, so in the past period, but over the past 17 years, two and a half thousand Croatian defenders' status has not been annulled, but we have gathered here, so we have reached the number 700 but well, two and a half thousand is worth a lot more. As for some other provisions regarding the disabled Homeland War, ask Mr. Glogoski's widows, ask only widows, ask disabled people, as long as I am at the head of this resort there will be no opinion of five, six people who represent hundreds and 500 thousand Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26496	Thank you. We're on our way to replication. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26497	Well, Madam Vice President and Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that you used really words that these confettis of these honorable people who represent all those that you speak of in 186 of 186 are associated if you don't know or associate with associations at the state level or are joined in alliances at the state level and that category you'll have to understand at some time even though you don't want to understand it so that one foundation of the association from a small town or municipality is at your will but its roof disagrees with that and there you are wasting yourself in space and time because you don't want to hear the voice of truth. You haven't had a democratic debate with the defenders, you've deceived them in hopes and you've been cheating them, and in these false promises, none of them have been supported, so don't tell us that we're demagogues, we want, we're giving you the opportunity to make amends to fix what's good, let's upgrade it, let's all raise hands for it, let's all go together to give ourselves a hand and help these people, to the teams of our defenders who have allowed us to sit in this House so that they can be supplied and, above all, get those 142 million kunas back to the budget to have what they're looking for. They have made clear what they seek, and you have not answered them. To these associations you spoke of, you didn't send me a lady, weren't the werewolves' mothers who sent me a fax, was it Mrs. Alvir, who is the president of the Association of Prisoners and Missing, that their children, the special police, are these the marginals for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26498	Replication response, Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26499	So here again, Mr. Djakic, here, 160 associations from the Homeland War, is listed here 6 by not being signed and proof that I'm telling you the truth unlike many others, you're just standing up here and saying, and HVIDRA is joining it. HVIDRA is me? Is that what you mean? Now you're up here and you just said and HVIDRA joins, so HVIDRA makes 60 thousand people disabled or probably 30 and doesn't treat Predrag Matić like that, but the law treats 6 associations compared to 1160 is a negligible number.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26500	Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26501	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Matic, you know very well that the associations did not lead these policies of the ministry because in all governments you were practically in the Ministry of Defence, and while the defence minister was the late Mr. Njavro you were the secretary of the cabinet, the chief of cabinet and while the minister was Mrs. Kosor, you were an adviser and while Pancic was the minister you were in that ministry and now you are head of the ministry. So political omens are not important to you at all and don't tell us about your resignations or anything like that. If they are special police associations for you, if for you the Association of Guard Brigades is a marginal association, then you better not be the minister of Croatian defenders, as well as these associations of victims, such as the Alliance of Family Associations held and missing, such as the community of parent associations of dead defenders, such as the community of widows of Croatian defenders. For you, these are marginal associations? Mr. Matić, you have to take care of what you're talking about. And I'd like to ask you a question. You were in a situation and position why did you never encourage the creation of the Croatian Defence Register? Why wasn't that register made in the first term when the Croatian Defence Ministry was founded in '98 when you were the head of the cabinet of the late Minister of Njavre? Why was it not made in the second term when the minister was Mr Pancic but was made in the third term when HDZ's power came. You can laugh. And when this process was launched precisely by Mrs Kosor and when in less than a year we built and met the Croatian public with the fact that the register was made And we had no fear of bringing out the data that you were hiding like a snake's feet. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26502	The reply to the replica of Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26503	Just when I think I'm not going to answer myself, but when I'm attacked personally, believe me, I have a sharp tongue and I can answer like that. So in all the functions that I've been to, these are lower functions, but you can see a lot of things, and that's exactly why when I say that the associations have run politics, I know what I'm saying, and I'm saying that, too. And please don't, I mean it or I won't say it. So at all the functions I've been honorably to, I only went to the bathroom when I had to.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26504	Anna Lovrin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26505	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And the Ministers. Will you stop my time?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26506	Here you go, fellow Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26507	Will my time stop until the gym calms down?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26508	Let the representatives of your club calm down, and then you'll have a chance to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26509	Whatever order the chairman has to secure. So, Mr. Minister, you've quite harshly told us that this is the usual manner of your government that there are at least 10 provisions in this law that increase the rights of Croatian defenders, and we're caught just talking about the register. I didn't mention the register myself. I was talking about something else and you answered me. I was talking about when the law gives citizens the right to provide budgetary resources for the exercise of these rights if the government wants to be serious and if it really wants to implement the law. You have now answered me that before or not before any funds but that you have now introduced one category because they have more rights than those who have so far had rights under the law. Let me translate that. So far, the law has defined categories that have the right to housing and, if you remember, certain time periods were when this right will be realised depending on how the funds in the budget will be secured. You are now not on the same cookie but on a reduced cake because at the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering you have reduced the funds and for I do not know 7.8 million kuna in that position, introduce a new category, so honestly say that you are actually reducing the rights of Croatian defenders because those who have so far expected to be resolved will now be in a further position because you have expanded the circle of mandaters and you have reduced the means to achieve that right and that is the real truth, as you have reduced the possibility of taking advantage of employment for Croatian defenders to all executive jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26510	The reply to the replica of Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26511	So this is what you said about extending the rights is just roughly that definition, of course you read but after the law is passed will be passed and a special regulation on housing care and then you will see that we have foreseen some new things in which Croatian defenders are allowed easier, simpler and accessible housing care than before. If here I can answer that, so far it has been if the Croatian defender in any way I go into solving the housing issue he automatically falls off all the lists in the Ministry of Defence. When the law is passed, and then a regulation that will regulate it, Croatian defenders will have wider opportunities and greater opportunities to move towards resolving the housing issue with the support of the state they will be given. That's what you'll see when the regulation's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26512	Ivanka Roksandić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26513	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I don't know why you're angry. Well, we're not personally attacking you. You've turned your debate into that. So you wanted to change our opinion in some way with your exposure and the answer to our debate. So we are allowed to speak in this Croatian Assembly. We don't have to agree with you. If you can't handle it and resign, we won't force you to. You make your own decision and your government. And now for the decisions. I don't know by my exposure to associations I think you underestimated yourself badly underestimated the work of civil society associations not only defenses but all, but mostly defenses. The organizations have done a lot to strengthen the rights of defenders, the defense association. I don't know if you were in the government discussing the budget, so then you could see that this government is for 2013. I don't know how many times I've increased the resources for the work of the associations, so I wonder why any associations? Why? What, some selected government associations? Or just for some. I don't know as if you really haven't been sitting down because in your presentation, you're actually underestimating the work of all the organizations, and especially those for which you're in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26514	The reply to the replica of Minister Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26515	Thank you for your criticism. If I've gone too far, I'm sorry, and here's thank you so much for calming me down. But when you've moved on, I've got to answer the same thing. Yes, you increased the funds and that there were and there were associations with a great U and with a small in, and I don't mean events from World War II but those that are privileged and those that are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26516	Comrade Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26517	So I repeat once again, 1160 organizations under the law that you have brought here are equal in this country. So far, it's always 5, 10, 15 of the maximum association has cheered and clothed the defense population, and I can't allow it, not because I'm not allowed to do it, but because the law says so. Here I'm full of one, the other, the third phone is full of messages where the representatives of the association say the situation is a little different than you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26518	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26519	Thank you. Let's get the debate back to a quieter water. Mr. Minister, today is the holiday of St. Lucia, the many protectors in the Christian world, including the protector and the eyes and you have no reason to be nervous, it is not good to mention and separate any association, it is wrong. Wrongly, the more the vast majority of Croatian citizens stand, the more they welcome this bill, the more I am convinced of it. So don't lose your temper about it. When you said that information about the 350 thousand defenders at the end of the year, who the late President Tudjman had said, and now we heard here from the former Croatian Defence Minister, only in a year made that register that suddenly ended up at 500 thousand. The vast majority of Croatian citizens, in line with the holiday of St. Lucia, want to see and see, the real truth to know, Croatian citizens, Croatian defenders above all, but the entire Croatian public is concerned with the knowledge that there were 500 thousand of us and the right answer is asking how and by whose orders and directives only one year from 350 has grown to 500 thousand. Those who do not want the publication of the Croatian Defence Register I fear that they do not want to see their handiwork and who, throughout the family, have become Croatian defenders after 10, 11 members of one family overnight, and have neither seen the battlefields in the fighting and non-combat sectors for days. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26520	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26521	Here says my colleague, Mr. Buric, whom I greatly appreciate precisely because of the emotions he can express in the House and without passion there is no politics, you resent the emotions you have shown. I don't think it's anger. I think it's emotion. It is precisely because of the sincerity of emotions and because of your good intentions that the public considers you to be one of the best ministers in the government, and I repeat it and I never feel embarrassed to repeat it. First of all, I read different things you said. Yes, many hide behind the Homeland War Associations, many identify the president of the Homeland War Association and their opinion as the opinion of all defenders, that's a lie. If you bring research and you say out of a total of 500 thousand defenders registered 250 thousand thoughts, then you have the right to speak for the majority. But that's what the political singing says, the people think so, the defenders think so. So whoever did this to investigate how the defenders think, that's what you and a few people think. Therefore, what happens at the Ministry of Defense even gives the defence minister the right to do what he does, because on his side there are all these polls and I don't think that because of the excess emotion anyone here will get a headache in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26522	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26523	Thank you very much. I think, Mr. Minister, because of the sensitivity of the subject a little less passion, less personal insults wouldn't bother you, but let's get back to our subject. What are you gonna do when you talk about the register with those where some are in the register, and some aren't. What about the representatives of the crisis headquarters who had their clear function since 2.8'91. until the 2nd month of '92. Some are, some aren't, while you're already talking about justice, but I'll discuss it in an individual debate. Mr Matic, these people you say will ask for 62 billion kuna from Croatia, you have clearly received a reply from the real representatives and members of the Croatian Defence Council. These are people who were also in Vukovar with you, perhaps some of you know, who later went to defend their hearths after the aggression in the spring of '92. in BiH. These are people who love Croatia first and will never ask Croatia for this with which you scare the Croatian people. And don't scare the Croats with the Croats, it's a story that's long gone and these people will never ask for those 62 billion, so be sure. And also as a resolution minister should see how much it cost to solve the problem of members of the Croatian Defence Council because the government has simply not given them certain rights since 2000-2003. And as for the devastation of Croatia, we will see what will be at the end of your term and it has the Bible, let the first one to throw away, and you have certainly participated in many governments, so don't throw yourself away.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26524	Replica response, Minister Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26525	Here's to the accuracy of information to the public, Mr. Schucker, you don't tell the truth, or you don't read the data. The members of the Croatian Defence Council were resolved by an interstate agreement from 2006 and there is a legal solution and that is all right. This is about 109, Mrs Kosor and Mr Ivić know very well, and probably you do, but it is about people who have not been one day, not for one second in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, nor have they fought in the troops of the Croatian Army. If they were, that would never be the least of the problems. And I agree if you're here well at first said they'll never sue. So far, 200 have been sued and I have to pay them more than 40 million kunas. With this amendment and the addition of the law, we prevent further possibilities. And the worst thing about it is those defenders, they are Croatian defenders and of course we are obliged to take care of them, because that is how the Constitution says we should take care of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. However, under a premeditation or inciting with several greedy lawyers who have seen an easy opportunity to make good profit, they file charges, giving the attorneys power of attorneys. And so far, there were 11 million last year, now 40 million and journalists have calculated how many all would have done, and if there hadn't been these changes and additions to the law now, no one is telling them not to make it 62 billion kunas would have cost us. It's the truth that works.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26526	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26527	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Much has already been said about this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families. So while this bill is changing or supplementing a total of 36 articles so far in force, it is evident from all debates that the biggest and fundamental objections are being made to the addition of the current article 109th law in question and that the one relating to the register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War both to its structure and to its purpose, the data it contains, the use. But especially on the fact that his recent public publication, more specifically, will make this register publicly available in electronic form by way of an entry into force of this law. Given that this amendment, more precisely, the addition of the law so far, has led to the greatest attention not only of representatives in the Croatian Parliament but also of all Croatian public on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, I would like to point out immediately that we are unequivocal for the publication of the Croatian Defence Register from the Homeland War. The reason for this attitude is a lot, and I'm only going to look back on some of them. The first reason is that the existence, but the availability of the public of this register, in our opinion, is indeed in order to strengthen the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, in order to promote the value of the Homeland War, and for the purpose of the real and well-deserved strengthening of honor and reputation of Croatian defenders. For every Croatian defender is and should be proud to be on this list. This pride is earned by every Croatian defender for his personal contribution to the realization that we often like to say the thousand-year dream of countless generations of the Croatian people, to establish an independent and independent state of Croatia. because of its contribution to the defence and independence and sovereignty of Serbia's aggression, because of the fulfillment of its patriotic obligation and towards its ancestors, as well as to its children, grandchildren and generations that come behind us. But this pride is worth every surviving Croatian defender and for those who gave their lives for freedom, independence and independence of the Republic of Croatia. And it's true that being on this list is truly an honor. However, it is not necessary, it cannot and must not close its eyes in front of the fact that there are those who have this honor in the register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have not earned it, and in question, so often and unfairly, they have obtained this honor. The register of Croatian defenders existed before this bill, we have already talked about it. And it is this unpublished register that has caused many recommendations, primarily because of the fact of the number of those in it, because of those in it and not their place, but also because of those who are unquestionable there, but perhaps the accuracy of the data relating to time, which they spent as Croatian defenders in the Homeland War, and even some other data. And when we add to this the fact that despite the multiple and multiple publicly expressed doubts about the unbelief of the existing Croatian Defence Register, there are those who are absolutely opposed to its public announcement, and yet for insufficient reasons. Then he suspects that something related to the list of those found in the existing register is getting even greater proportions. It should be extremely open and say the vast majority of Croatian defenders do not believe that during the Homeland War, 500 000 Croatian defenders participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their belongings. the combat or non-combat sector. And this particular fact is the main stone of doubt that in the existing register there are those who are called false defenders by the public. And we at the HDSSB club also believe that unfortunately and such doubts are justified. And that's why we want to make public publication of the register of this suspicion either removed or confirmed. Not only for the disclosure of these false defenders, but also for the real strengthening of the reputation and honor of true Croatian defenders, who are indeed the place in the Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. We advocate the publication of the Croatian Defence Register and because it will reveal not only those false defenders whose goal may have been to achieve non-accompanied rights but also for some other reasons, e.g. which will also reveal any false protected witnesses in the political and judicial persecution of some Croatian defenders whose false testimony was accepted while refusing to accept evidence that these persons who were granted the status of protected witnesses were not at all Croatian defenders during the period for which they testified. I had already discussed one of these examples during my first reading. Remember, I cited an example of a fake so-called. The protected witness 06, who has the status of Croatian defender from 15 October 1990 to 28 June 1991, falsely testified that the Croatian defender was until 31.12.'91. A year. The publication of the Croatian Defence Register will reveal that this so-called The protected witness 06 is nothing but a liar. Unfortunately, however, this example of the so - called false so - called so - called “false. ” The protected witness is probably not the only one. The question arises how many such false witnesses used by politics for the purpose of persecuting individual and true Croatian defenders in the mounted politically motivated processes in the Republic of Croatia? The answer to this question will probably also be published by the Croatian Defence Register. Among the often mentioned arguments of those who oppose the publication of this register, which we could hear today, I think the former Prime Minister, the former Croatian Defence Minister, said, is often mentioned as an argument in order to make this publication and by establishing the existence of so-called. false Croatian defenders could also raise questions about the responsibility of the commanders of those units who confirmed their participation in the Homeland War to these persons and signed it. Now, in this regard, and these doubts on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, I will again make it clear and loud that any commander who has participated in the signing of false certificates on the basis of which false defenders acquired false statuses with the aim of possible achievement of non-accompanied... Such commanders, with all their merits, have, if they were and have done so, been offended by the real Croatian defenders they had commanded and who, with their shoulders, had exposed their lives to the dead, to the suffering and to the wounded, especially if they had done so, violated the victim of the disabled and especially the dead Croatian knights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those who have done so, if they have done so, should be held accountable. For there were also other commanders who were cast out by such pressures, but they did not succumb to them. I'm going to give a real example from the first half of the '90s. A prominent Croatian football coach who journalists often say is the coach of all coaches, and he is always very pleased to hear it, the coach asked Branimir Glavas to sign a certificate of participation in the Croatian Army for one of his relatives, nephew, who was not even a day's participant in the Homeland War with the aim of avoiding leaving for regular military service. It was that coach who boasted that the late President Tudjman wanted to get into bed to get the flu out of him to prove how much he appreciated him. If he's got the flu I don't know, but high-ranking officer I'm afraid he is. Branimir Glavas refused this request by replying that such confirmation would not have been signed by his own brother if he had not been in the Croatian Army and was not an actual participant of the Homeland War. But given the influence of the football coach mentioned at that time in the structures of HDZ authorities, it would not be surprising that it may have been such a false confirmation for a relative and won somewhere else from another warlord but I sincerely hope not. The publication of the Croatian Defence Register may also offer an answer to the question of how it is possible that some political officials have received high rank without having any troops, let alone seen battlefields in either the fighting sector or the non-combat sector. I am convinced that the vast majority of those who truly belong on this list do not object to his publication. And because of them, but also because of the publication of the names of those whose place is not to be on the list of Croatian defenders is honor and pride. I am a volunteer of the Homeland War, and I am proud of the possibility that both my children and my grandchildren may one day and when I am not there know what their father and grandfather did to them in the honorable times of creation and defence of an independent and independent Croatian state. And like the vast majority of Croatian defenders, I am not afraid of any consequence of the publication of this data in the Croatian Defence Register. I am, and all of us representatives of the HDSSB for its publication, as we support most of the other solutions that this law offers to Croatian defenders and members of their families because we believe that even with the shortcomings of such a legal solution, a positive shift forward for Croatian defenders. However, I must stress that we continue to insist on the request that, with the Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, the publication and the register of all the abolised participants of the Serbian aggression against the Republic of Serbia, as well as the register of all those Croatian citizens, regardless of their nationality, who failed to meet the fact that this was repeatedly mentioned in their constitutional obligation to defend their country. No matter whose jurisdiction Mr. Minister, which ministry that is. As we insist, at the request that the Ministry of Defence finally ceases to bear the name of the Ministry of Defence already at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, we also talk about the Law on Croatian Defence, and then the Ministry of Defence should also be called the Croatian Defence Ministry. The final club of representatives of the HDSSB and with certain remarks supports the publication of the Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War because all of us who wore the honorable uniforms of the Croatian Army, the National Guard Assembly, the MUP clearly did not have 500 thousand in our sleep, because there were indeed 500 thousand of us who believed that we would be really hard to stop and reach Zemun in order to get there probably faster than Sulejman was magnificent. Those who oppose the publication of the Croatian Defence Register will be reminded of a sentence. Every politician must have three things: thick skin, good stomach and a clean conscience, you who oppose it first two things and thick skin and a good stomach but I'm not sure you all have a clean conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26528	Thank you very much. We're going to the Rules of Procedure first. My colleagues, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26529	Madam Vice-President, I call on Article 216, not to think but I am sure that MP Buric severely violated that provision, but also the Rules of Procedure as a whole because they, and I, too, are opposed to the publication of the register and they argue that it will not be something good for Croatia as a whole, actually put in a group of people who have a problem with the conscience, so he said that we do not have a clear conscience, and someone has no clear conscience of politicians, logically that it is believed that in that group of people who are on the other side of the law. So, I think it is absolutely unacceptable that some MP in the Croatian Assembly some of their colleagues because they argue why they did not and why they put in a group of people who do not have a clean conscience. I have a clear conscience, Mr. Buric, and I strongly protest your debates and this is one of those in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26530	The same violation of the Rules of Procedure, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26531	Dear Madam Vice President, I think you could have reacted to Article 216 as well because your colleague was talking about something that I didn't mention to you by any name or last name, you at one point when I spoke in context that you said about the commander. Whoever recognizes himself in an old saying, I didn't make it up, anyone who recognizes themselves in that sentence is his problem, it's a problem with his purity or his uncleanness of conscience, and I pray that nothing I haven't said in my mouth that I haven't said for a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26532	This is where you actually used the Rules of Procedure's injuries to express your position. As I conduct the session, I tolerate everyone to be able to express their position so as not to give any warning, I think that there have been a lot of harsh words here during the debate this morning and this hour afternoon, but you will allow everyone in the Croatian Parliament to express their position but without insult, I did not estimate that my colleague Buric hurt anyone. He talked about politicians in general. Now we're going to the replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26533	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. So there was a lot of that said for defence purposes, publishing the register because you dedicated your entire speech, we're going to talk about another, and that involved a series of things that have and have nothing to do with it. The acts were mentioned, the acts had nothing more to do with it, you know that there are honorable acts, which are something tenth of the acts earned in the real defense of the homeland. They exist, they're legitimate, so let's not mix apples and billiard balls together to defend some of the thesis we're trying to defend. So that's the first thing. The second thing, I'll ask you what I asked you when I first read the Honorable Minister, I didn't get the answer, I might get it from you, but I doubt it. Everyone's talking about whether we should publish the register, why we should publish it, we haven't heard a lot of arguments. Then we have arguments why not publish it, but I would turn the saw upside down, I still haven't heard and I didn't get that answer even though when I first read it, I made it clear why he insisted on publishing. What's going to happen to that? If it's because of the so-called. the false defenders then it has absolutely nothing to do with it. So if it's due to doubt in the number of defenders, it doesn't have anything to do with it either. All mechanisms to discover possibly false defenders exist... there are structures of the state, there are services and if it is to be done and if it is suspected that something can be done and... without any public publication. The registry exists, everything can be examined, and therefore everything can be done without publication. So the question arises why does it insist on publishing this particular register? In the country of Croatia, there are various registers, no one insists that they be published. Some are very nimble registries and it might be very interesting for the public to see them, no one is asking for them to be published, insisting that this one be published. Will something be cleared up by that publication? It won't, nothing will be cleared up by that publication but only divisions will be created, quarrels I dare say... many will be completely pointless etc. Nothing's gonna happen to that. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26534	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26535	Dear Mr. Academyman, dear colleague. First something about rank. There are reserve acts, well I know you were talking about honor I'm reserve. There is no citizen in the Republic of Croatia who approves that politicians have won, at least I don't know, that politicians have won doesn't even matter what rank, some even generals and later they didn't even remember commanding any unit. There is no person who has approved that acts are given to politicians. For the merits of defence and state-building, those who were not in the uniform of the Croatian Army can get medals, and the acts are intended for soldiers, officers and officers, therefore an officer. On the other hand, you're asking why the announcement and I'm asking the question and why not? Why not? My belief is, and I believe the belief of both the vast majority and the population of Croatian defenders and Croatian citizens that the publication of the Croatian Defence Register will now make it easier for the institutions to discover those who do not belong in this register, to make it easier for false defenders. And I agree with you that's not why I said so and in the debate that only the Croatian Defence Office is to be published. There are many other registers to be published. This is not ticklish this one will be proud of all those who are located unlike some of the other registers we are asking to publish, which would not be proud, the register of all the abolized participants of the great Serb aggression. I am not sure that they will be too happy to be there as is the register of all those deserters or those who have failed to fulfil their constitutional obligation, which was spoken of by counterpart Grubisic. I'm up for it, too. So we're looking for an announcement and other registers. and in the argument why, why not [[Thank you very much.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26536	You have more replicas and you will continue Tomislav Ivić replica. [[Intruder: There will be an opportunity, yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26537	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Buric, the debate on the number of Croatian defenders should not be based on some kind of flat-rate or subjective feeling. It's the same as if I said so I don't think there are 4.5 million citizens in Croatia, despite the list that was conducted, I think there are 3 million citizens. A registrar's registry has also been created with a registrar's registrar's registry. I have it in my hand. There is also a Mr. Minister at the ministry from which if the analysts were to be read a little more carefully then it is pretty clear how and why half a million citizens participated in the defence of the country. I don't know if you know the fact that up to 15.1.192, until the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia through troops of the Croatian Army and police, 282 thousand 619 were citizens of military taxpayers, members. And from 15.1.1992. p. until the end of the Homeland War means the rest of some 218 thousand, people who were no moment in the Croatian Army's troops until 15.1. That only in the Storm and in order to carry out this final grand action were around 200,000 people hired. I also have here a list of all the Homeland War units and the number of people who went through those units. I don't know if you know the information that your brigade and my brigade went through about 5,000 people, and it was a formation of about 2,000 people. So there were twice as many people in it as she was, and that's how it is with all the units that are on this list. Of course, there were not half a million people in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26538	Reply to replica Dinko Buric [[Intruder: At the same time yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26539	Dear colleague Ivić, I am pleased that you have presented these figures now. And I absolutely agree that the Court of Justice should not be brought on the basis of some flat-rate evaluations. And precisely because I'm against bringing it around, from the eye, alone to publish the Croatian Defence Registry, to determine the credibility and this data that you have now provided. I would very much like to see the list of 286 thousand members of the National Guard Assembly, which was already at the time of the Croatian Army, which was in the uniforms of the Croatian Army until 15 January 1992 and defended Croatia's homeland. Now, my war buddy, if we had been so many before January 15, 1992, the Storm wouldn't have been in 1995, we wouldn't have waited until the end of '92. A year. I said in a joke one of my fellow MPs here the other day at the first reading, is that Mile that we were 350 grand as much as a joke would end up in Vienna, out of fear I think. And he smiled at it, said that, about so I don't speak for him. Now imagine there were 500 grand of us. 286 thousand on January 15, 1992, don't Mr. Ex-Minister with such information never talk again because he'll question it, I'll tell you about it later, everything we think and say, I'll say when the opportunity comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26540	Thank you very much. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26541	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Buric, I must confess that you have offended me. You said everyone who's against this law is fatheads, people of good stomach and guilty conscience. My conscience is clear, I gave this country everything she asked of me, even more than that. Who are you to share honors with the wicked, are you some moral authority in this House? Who are you? Are you the Almighty? You're not. So what do you need? It wasn't the meaning of my replica because I raised it long before it was said, but now I'm going to tie you to your registries that you support. We have a pension register in this country, not public. If all pensions are obtained by law, we can see from some cases that they're not. Who separates those who are not from those who are the institutions of the state but have no public record. If we have a social benefits register, we do. If they're all legal, if they're all just, if they're public, if they're not. Who separates them, the institutions of the state, not a public announcement. If we have a concession register, 14,000 contracts, are all obtained under the law and those not yet registered. Is that a separate public announcement? We have experience in public publication of taxpayers. What happened to this country? Well, indifference has increased, even more for those who don't pay. We've solved the problem. Now, you tell me on the basis of the provisions of these laws what it will be like when you determine one wicked man who has a guilty conscience, even if it is me. You are the Almighty, you always know everything, and tomorrow the law will come to the vote against which you will be, and yet it is a matter of honor. Will you then be dishonest, will you be unclean to your conscience because you have the right to think differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26542	Thank you. Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26543	First of all, my dear colleague, if I have offended you with my deep apology, a profound apology to you and to all who have only been recognized in the quote of one... No, no, wait a minute, so in the quote of a saying. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But neither by name nor by last name, and especially by you, I'm not particularly into you, and here's what I'm gonna do, okay. If you accept, you accept, if not okay. Part two, pensions, that content part of the replica. So have you forgotten when it comes to pensions that it was just us from the HDSSB club during the last government, lastly calling on the Croatian Parliament, while HDZ was in power with its coalition partners, here in the Croatian Parliament in the debate, that in the debate, we have raised questions about the accuracy and credibility of the data that today, 67 years after the end of World War II, there are still 34,000 pensioners who are receiving pensions as participants of the National Liberation War. If their children were born today, they were born in '45. You should've been 67 by then, you were in power, you didn't move your finger to at least check and ask the question if there's really so many of those who belong to the right to receive those pensions. And I am for all things to be cleared up, all that is illegally provided should be returned to the Croatian state as well as all that has been alienated in numerous affairs and past power, God forbid it should be repeated in this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26544	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26545	Thank you very much. Dear Buric, we are aware that you are willing to offend anyone who is opposed to your views. We've felt it not once, we've experienced it many times. It's not the first time or the last time. And today your debate is also going to this no matter how you don't want the publication of a public register to clear the wheat from the weeds, rather than to continue to suspect and write criminal charges to the well-known and unknown, in order to discredit people on any basis only if they are against your opinions and attitude. That's what we felt. And today we feel the same trouble given your words, just because we're against each other. And we are opposed because of Article 37. The Constitution guarantees the security, confidentiality of personal data to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia even though we know that many times you are against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Sometimes I'd give you right in some segments that can be explored, prove and I'd even help you with that. But I can't let you insult me because I'm against the register. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is also against the publication of the register, and we are all meant by your category to be evaluated and offended. That's not very nice or honorable. We could say a lot more. But if you want a register where you'll know 50 people or 100, and you won't know everyone else, and you won't be able to say anything about them, but someone will whisper to you or tip you off, and you'll write a criminal report saying that this man will feel when he'll have to prove his innocence to this earth's investigative authorities like you did to me and Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26546	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26547	I have no intention of apologizing to everyone anymore. I apologized to Mr. Boric, and I think that's enough. As far as your allegations go, I don't know everything, nor do I speak to offend. No, I'm just talking the way I talk. I'm telling the truth! And truth offends many times. I have the right to say my doubts as you have the right to display figures whose credibility is or is not questionable. Penalties, Mr. Djakic, I now speak as a Croatian defender and as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. It's not my idea to file a criminal report because someone's gonna whisper to me. Whoever whispers to me that he's suspected of something, I'll have him file a criminal report, and my role in any criminal charges will be completed. However, I will personally report to the institutions of the Croatian state those whom I consider that something in the Croatian Defence Register does not correspond to the real state I will do so. Just for what I'm convinced. Because I'm thinking today what I said publicly, and I'm going to repeat, not you, Mr. Djakic, not just you, but I don't know any valid reason that any Croatian defender defended Djakovo 15.8.1990 in Djakov in a unit that was founded two years later. If the data were later and typed, then at least they should have been placed as volunteer armed groups, Not a unit that was founded in 1992. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26548	Thank you very much. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26549	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My friend Buric, it's never good to generalize in his life. Now I'm going to say something personal that I've never said in this high house. So, you said you were proud of your war route. You see, my colleague Buric and I are proud of what I was in the Homeland War. But unlike you, my name is not on the Croatian Defence Register. Now I'll tell you, look. I was president of the Crisis Headquarters in the sixth-largest city in the Republic of Croatia. We had a few dozen kilometers of battlefields, I had three large barracks where I ran the negotiations. Every night he sent a report to President Tudjman and General Tus. And now look, your children will also be proud of you because you're on the list, and me, mine won't because I'm never on the list because I'm never a colleague of Kosor or a colleague of Ivić, no matter what I was a minister in the government, I didn't say I wanted to go to the Defense Office. If someone believes that the presidents of the crisis headquarters, and those who participated in the Homeland War know well how important their function was even outside the brigade commander in those first few months, they know well. So I've never dropped it, and now you come here and you say and you look at our side and you say that I don't have a clean conscience. My friend Buric, I have a very clean conscience. And that's why I said here exactly because you were talking about your pride. And I'm telling you, your Belisce is two or three times smaller than the Great Gore. You know well that in Velika Gorica and the airport and the barracks where there were 1800 people, that ZTC where there were 23 moments and which was very interesting for the occupiers and that it was military in Buna where there were practically half the weapons of territorial defense of the city of Zagreb. Let me just tell you 15000... But look, I never asked, and now, Mr. Minister, if you're talking about honesty and legality, what about me and someone like that if I apologize for my own, but if it wasn't for my colleague Buric, I would never say this here in the high assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even when they once called government members where they were. But I just want to tell you that you can't talk about justice and hit on someone, and you don't know the truth. And now my colleague Buric is not doing what you say. I know why you're saying things, but you don't need to generalize. And if you're proud of something, let others be proud and allow others to be clear of their consciences because someone's head at that point in view of the position is I'm not insulting you any more exposed than yours. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26550	Thank you. Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26551	It's very simple. You can see we can agree. Well, I absolutely agree with my colleague Schucker and I advocate that both members of the crisis staff and members of the national protection, although you have now refused to do so in an explanation but should insist that these people also be recognised as Croatian defenders. Your place is in the register, in my opinion, it's not a dispute. And you have the right to be proud. It's a place for you. But it's no place for those who don't belong there. That's what this is about, Mr. Shuker. That's what this is about. Not about you, you have the right to be proud of what you did during the Homeland War. And all the members of the crisis headquarters who did, they put their heads in the bag wearing political responsibility for that. So, it's true to you, it is a place in that register both for you and for everyone else, but we're saying it's not a place for many who are probably not prejudged again, so let it be published, so we'll see, it's not a place for many who are there, and it doesn't belong to them. And I'm afraid among them, given the time when the number so rapidly increased from 350 to 500 thousand is a large part of those who were sympathisers or members of a particular political party, and unlike other political parties. And that's what to think about. It will be interesting to see if exactly from one family and grandfather and grandson and brothers and sisters all left the house and all 11 went to defend the Republic. There have been such, with all due respect, but unfortunately not all of them are in the registers, unlike those found. A lot of people know what I'm talking about, so it's gonna be a turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26552	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is a colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26553	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today in the 21st century 67 years after World War II or 68 we are still in the semi-lime, arguing about blackness from and after World War II. We're wondering why and we're wondering how we do it, why are we doing it? Why haven't the crimes been prosecuted? And then we mostly swear that we were that generation so that we wouldn't do what they did, cover it up, push it under the carpet. They didn't want justice and the truth left to us to clear it. So what do we say now? We wouldn't raise our hand. And then I say I'm sorry for the expression a little bit tomorrow. A moment ago, there was a talk here in the conference room about excuses, who apologized to whom and why. And now one question, who even when he publicly apologized to Mr. Milly Dedakovic? Now I've heard one before, yeah. The case of Mile Dedakovic – Jastreba, and I am talking about it because here in this debate, in these few hours, there are countless times the importance mentioned. He looks abstract. The integrity of the defender of Croatia is an abstract concept that we do not seem to understand well. So, the case of Mile Dedakovic – Jastreba says that we treat defenders with hypocrisy, very hypocritical. Which is why Mr. Dedakovic's case is not solved, which he himself urged to solve, his wife sent the public, names and last names of some people, what is this about? Why not process those who beat and destroyed Mr. Dedakovic's Croatian hero? That's what nobody's asking, we're talking numbers, we're talking about the integrity of the war, we're talking about the integrity of the defense attorney. Why is no procedure being initiated to determine the truth under which circumstances Mile Dedakovic was killed after leaving Vukovar? From who? By the hand of which? Croatian authorities say. So let's get this over with. Well, that's a shame, that's a lie. It's a lie in the Croatian Homeland War. Why isn't that working out? Why don't we start now, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you nicely to initiate the investigation, ask the DORH. We talked before, there are no papers, ask for it, it has to be dealt with. One of the greatest heroes of the Homeland War can't go home even if it has all the conditions and has all the carts of the world, all the drugs and all the strips that are not ashamed of this country should be investigated under what circumstances Mr. Dedakovic has died. Who ordered the beating, who locked him up, who these people are, who these gray eminences are. That's not what we're discussing. I fully agree with Mr Buric that, and many hundreds probably have people, I will not speak to thousands by heart, those who did not deserve to be on that list of defenders. Yes, on that list of defenders, there are 500 thousand who have been on the battlefield, and they are not on that list for a variety of reasons. Some of them I know, who I was on the battlefield with, they said no because we don't deserve it, even though they wore their heads in the bag. We didn't carry a weapon and we didn't fight with a gun, and every day they were killed. At least 15 of them, 20 of them, I know who did it. Which aren't on the list. Then the team before that list of 500 thousand is too high because there are none, but there are many others who are. So if we're saying all the time that I agree completely that we should defend the dignity of the Homeland War, then we should also defend the defendant's dignity. I am pleased that in this House there are many defenders who have defended the Homeland, who have defended the Croatian homeland but I am inconceivable that it is not, I was a little late in Parliament today because I had a meeting, I thought that a session would be interrupted, that a session would be postponed to discuss before today's topic about Mr. Dedakovic with whom I was lucky to speak as a journalist and even as I can even say as his colleague. There is an excellent song by Arsen Dedić, who says, "Behind them, theirs is behind ours. This is what they rejoice and fear at this very moment. Although the song is dedicated to something else but it is very illustrative for what is happening. Yes, that's the second song, Mr. Buric. One side, this left HDZ, not literally left, on my left says no register should be published, the other side on the right is categorical in the need to publish a defence register. Mr Buric's arguments are very firm, there are arguments from some HDZ defenders I have spoken with, who are also very firm, who say that the honorable people who have defended themselves, who say we do not want to be on that list. My moral dilemma is whether I have the right to cut with a knife and be on one side or on the other. I don't know, last time I said it was in the first debate, when it was in the first reading, I'm not sure of either. But I am quite sure that we should safeguard the dignity of defenders, Croatian defenders, people of name and last name, and that we should dispel those who are not defenders who have defiled the honor of defenders, those who have come in various relationships and almost all of them know who came and who say they were not defenders and they are on the list. And then somebody threw it to them in the first debate, so why don't you turn them in? And before they did, how would we, why should we report it? I don't know, that's what I'm saying is a moral dilemma whether or not to publish a list of defense attorneys. The question is, what more will help the rise of the Homeland War to publish or not publish the defence registry? Surely if we knew who the defender was, if we had that list, quite certainly to know who was fake on that list, but still it's not our job to look for those who are false, there really are state instruments, there are institutions of the state that need to do it. The second thing, another example of how we do not protect the honor of the general even, Slobodan Praljak is General HV, thousands of times has been repeated, a lie in Croatian media that crashed the bridge in Mostar, an old bridge in Mostar, there is a ruling of the Rijeka Court in which the newspaper and journalist who wrote it were convicted. After that verdict in the rule of law, no one should ever repeat that he crashed the bridge in Mostar himself. But it's not just a lie on behalf of Mr. Free Praljak, it's on all the defenders. It continues to repeat whether the Associations of the Homeland War were fiercely protesting the lying that is being planted. The case of the old bridge in Mostar is not in The Hague, no one is charged with destroying the old bridge because the Croats did not bring it down, but it is not being protested, and the facts are not being protested. As you are not protested and the fact that in Ahmiæi was committed a terrible crime, about this crime just to tell you is the ratio, is thousands of times on HRT has been spoken a thousand times. On the same day, I don't know how many days, the hundred miles in Trussina killed 50 Croats, nobody ever mentioned it, we're wrestling masochists not to talk about the truth about the war, we're not talking about that life that lived there and we're not talking about defenders who have defended them with honor. So I ask you, please, let me appeal to protect people from the names and names of any defenders who deserve it, and I repeat Mr. Minister in the end about Mr. Mile Santakovic Jastreb's fate, the Croatian hero, the man who defended Vukovar who ended up in some kind of prison, detention, some kind of room where they beat him just because he told his truth about Vukovar, you need to run an investigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26554	Thank you, four replicas for your exposure. The first is Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26555	Thank you. Mr. Vuksic, you spoke of Mr. Dedakovic's fate, so which are unknown forces, there are no unknown forces, I don't know if you've heard of the State Commission report on the circumstances of the fall of Vukovar, it's a very clear document as a public state document of the Republic of Croatia, I don't know if you've heard of Josip Manolic who was the direct enforcer of the action of arresting and beating Santakovic. The people who did this have their names and last names, they are well - known, but these are the people who were just following orders, therefore there are no big misunderstandings. There is all clear and public knowledge, what is embarrassing is that the Republic of Croatia as a legal state is nothing in these 20 now almost three years of existence, or 20 years of that report that the Croatian rule of law has done nothing, that this shameful report by the State Commission on the circumstances of the fall of Vukovar is reanalysed and rejected, because it was about a pamphlet that was actually sought by the internal enemy and accused those who defended this Vukovar in that pamphlet which has the status of the state document that was precisely those people who defended Vukovar at the head of these Dedakovic and with Borkovic and Tota and with all others were accused that they were guilty of the fall of Vukovar, that they were involved in the conspiracy to destroy the constitutional order and that they were in fact, and that Santakovic was arrested and had the fate of such as he had. Therefore, the basis of this is, in fact, that comforting click that was carried out at the end of 91st and the only one that can be rational today and who has to do to return the dignity of the Vukovar defense is a thorough analysis of this report and putting that report out of force and the adoption of a new report on the circumstances of the Vukovar defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26556	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26557	My dear colleague, I agree with you in one thing, the most important one you've ever spoken of, has not been reacted by the rule of law. The rule of law has not responded to many things in Croatia. You say everything is clear, everything is familiar. It's all known, but it's not processed. These people you've been talking about here now is the time in the Parliament we named them, we asked the Minister to be processed and what's to stop someone. I don't believe he'll be processed, unfortunately I don't. I don't believe everyone here swears someone has said before Croatia is a legal state, it's not, this proves Mr. Dedakovic's case as a Croatian hero proves that Croatia is not a legal state. You said before that no country in the world published its register. Well, no country in the world treats its heroes as the Croatian state treats its heroes. And to agree with you, this report should be put outside the law, a new report should be made on Vukovar and should be done because if Mile Dedakovic is guilty of what he was accused of then Mr. Minister is guilty because he is. I know it's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26558	Franco Vidovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26559	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic here's what I have to say, too, is that in this section around Mr. Dedakovic I agree with you. I think it's inadmissible first it's not true that no one mentioned it, I mentioned it yesterday, and I mentioned it before and there it was, it wasn't important then, I wasn't a parliamentary representative. I fully agree with you, I think it's a situation that should simply be closed down. The findings of this famous committee have not been resolved to this day. Not only does he refer to Mr. Dedakovic, I think he refers to Mr. Borkovic, that he refers to Phoenix Toto as referring to some other people who were key at some point in the Vukovar defense. As far as the ministry's reaction to Mr. Dedakovic's disease is concerned, I think the ministry reacted without delay and did what was to be done. Could the system be any better? You got it. Perhaps they should have had insight into Mr. Dedakovic's illness and we can even agree on that. But the system is what it is, and we're here to fix it. And the processing of the people who then called it mildly interrogated Mr. Dedakovic as much as I read and according to his testimony worked on typical bone fractures. If I was absolutely and for that, and I think it's really a story that I should end once and for all. And I think that Croatia should admit to people who are truly heroes of the Homeland War, I have listed some, and Mr. Dedakovic has some more that they really need to be acknowledged that they are heroes of the Homeland War, and I think that in this direction there was both the establishment and the medals and the proposal that came from my fellow current Minister Ante Kotromanović, who accepted and Mr. Matic the current minister to establish the medal of the Homeland War hero somehow and absolutely support it. I think Croatia must bow to its heroes. 15, 17, 20 years after the war but the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26560	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26561	Mr. Vidovic, let me just say on the way that we're replicating each other that I liked your debate because it was filled with emotion and it was a good debate, unlike some of the other colleagues who condemned the debate. We here in the Parliament can't just argue. We're the legislative body here. We're in favor of the government. We don't answer to the government. We should look for conclusions and we should ask the government tomorrow before the vote, order, assign the Presidency of the Parliament, make a statement and ask for a case to be launched in the investigation of Mr. Dedakovic's case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26562	And the last replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26563	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Vuksic, you are on a good track to reflect on the question of publishing, protecting or not protecting, rights or justice. These are things that you have really well defined and said whether it is necessary to protect Croatian defenders from the register but also those who have been freed from the guilt that has been placed on them as a staff on the neck of Croatian defenders. In the last few years and especially during Pancic's discredition, persecution, proselytes, you've seen it happen. This is a milder form that will happen today. We have those who really need help and protect them, we have those that you didn't mention. And... he's been tried several times differently. The process has not been completed yet. We have those who, as I said, end up in Canada in custody and have served for their sins, which have been condemned by a court of law and cannot be helped. How many of those will they be in the next period? How many such heroes who were not mentioned and weren't sound names and were not first and foremost like Mr. Mile Dedakovic? On several occasions in this House and in previous conferences, the War Veterans Committee has also discussed and sent out requests several times and now. This is commendable to ask that they be processed, and I ask, equally with you, to ask that state institutions, regardless of which no one has filed a criminal report they hear, they have an insight into how they can write a report and conduct investigations for everyone else in the papers, but to this day, here are colleagues reporting that at Mileta's home no one has come to ask the generals who beat you. Neither the police investigator nor the state's attorney's office has come to his end yet. It's sad in the Republic of Croatia. And I would agree in one good part we defend Croatian defenders and on the other hand we are persecuting them. We are persecuting without grounds without established facts, and strategic sites and battlefields We always forget Voćin where he is today....../The speaker away from the microphone doesn't understand. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26564	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26565	Dear counterpart Djakic, I do not agree with you that the Ministry of Defence at the time of Mr. Ivica Racan persecuted the defenders, I wrote about it then as a journalist, but I won't, it's too long a topic about it. But I agree that the state's attorney's office should react already on the basis of these discussions. Here's the SDP also agrees that HDZ's representatives agree with both the HDSSB and Croatian Labourists agree on what else is needed for the state's attorney to react and what the state's attorney's office will do in these seven days we will see very soon, and after that, if it does not want to react then it means some kind of conspiracy and then it is necessary to call a special session of the Parliament and discuss some things about the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26566	Thank you very much. Comrade Buric, you gave up? Thank you. It's Joseph Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26567	Thank you very much, Vice President. The fact is that today we are here for the second time in just 10 days talking about the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. The fact is that really looking at this bill, there was no change in almost nothing compared to the first one, except that I was able to read that Croatian railways are the so-called railways. HZ-holding, meanwhile, disappeared, and Croatian railways were inserted as a term into the law. It's the only change compared to the first bill. So I wonder if we really were at that time in the 20th and some debate as people's representatives who have certain experiences, who represent certain people, were we really not able to say anything important in these few hours of debate, nothing important that the Ministry of Defense could consider as a better proposal. Is there really universal knowledge in this ministry that none of us can come to? As the proposal is the same as the last one, then I'll try it the same way as the last time I speak. I remain in the position that if the right theory is then this law truly gives more rights theoretically than the previous one. However, every law is also followed by finance, and it is evident from the budget that in the following year this law follows 40 million kuna rights of Croatian defenders less than in 2012, and only with projections in 2015 do we have the same rights as in 2012. Can there be a story about the same rights? There are no same rights, only fewer rights. This is what finances say, and they are the only real rights to help Croatian defenders. I tried to establish my interest because I asked the question the last time, but it didn't come up with a reason for the denied. Why we did not respect the question, which is the purpose, which is the procedure of eradicating guilty, dishonest, false Croatian defenders. The Ministry couldn't answer that question even though you heard it very well. You couldn't answer, you couldn't. I'll try in my debate. I don't see my interest except sitting in front of a computer, looking at that computer, staring at it, thinking about hundreds of thousands of names. We don't know if it's going to be in the list of regular numbers, if we're going to have a search engine that we're going to type names in, so we're going to think of maybe 5 of them to see if they were in there, if they were somewhere. What criteria do we apply to that in the first place, if we want a time criterion? There were those before me, there were those after me. Shall we do the territorial criteria? In small towns, I may know some people, no one knows anyone but one small circle of people. How do you even solve it? What can even a true defender find in this Defence Register, the only satisfaction that he'll be on that list in the register with his regular number and particulars and it'll be his only satisfaction, that he was a defender but he already has, has his own defense card. He's already got it, and then he'll be a little happier. But there's a possibility for whoever might be guilty and he'll be on the list and he'll have his defense card. What he might have, unlike this other one, possibly some kind of fear that someone might notice him. It's completely wrong. What will those who establish a false, false, false defender do? They have to start the proof process. What's that gonna bring to the one who's gonna do it, nothing. We heard it here, if anyone notices I'll pass it on to someone else, maybe I will, maybe I won't. The question is really the purpose of all this regarding Croatian defenders within the register. There is no procedure for eradicating these wicked, guilty ones. As a result, I find this law completely pointless, but the abuse of this same law in the problem makes it possible to find true defenders. They were on the front line, they were going into certain areas of action. Not the ones on the side, the ones on the side, the ones on the side. They will be seen and possibly abused by their data and their name and name, and therefore this law is for me and dangerous. And when we talk about registers, I've listed everything in the replica register, and pensions that are secret and social benefits that are secret and concessions that are secret but not determined whether they've all been obtained in a proper and correct manner. It doesn't interest anyone, it interests them very much. The institutions of the state do so, there is no need to publish a list of millions and some pensions to determine individuals who have exploited themselves in the wrong way and come up with something that does not belong to them as well as social benefits, including concessions and all other registers. And we saw in the experience of registers, people who, taxpayers who owe you, did nothing but increase in liquidity in the state. I don't know if the ministry has asked themselves since we're talking about a 500,000 number here. Because we have 4 million people in Croatia. How does three and a half million people who aren't on this list feel? Do they have the right to feel? Whether they're guilty of something because the state didn't call them at that time, it didn't need them, they didn't need them, and their options for certain reasons. Are these people less honorable Croats than those who will be as we hear on this list. Is it their fault? The state didn't need them. That's the same question. That's the question, have we thought about their feelings? Whether it becomes an object of the story in the cafes, in the pubs, whether it's going to be calculated somewhere on the road or not, I don't know where. I don't know, here. I think I may have got it all wrong, so I'm going to make this announcement at the end of the register of consciousness perhaps in the simplest way the minister said pre-election promise. However, it was only worth the first reading. In the meantime, we have heard the words of the Prime Minister, and that the Kukuriku coalition has not promised anything, so nothing should be done and nothing should happen, so that the pre-election promise is obviously not right either. Maybe we can't make more sense of the publication of this register or the pre-election promise. And when it's all that way, I'm going to conclude in the end that we have no use for it, and obviously it's not a promise. This law, as we hear and publish the register, has no purpose and purpose. I then bring it down to the end under a simple whim, the whim of a missed policy. And the whims come and go. But what's more important is that people stay with their fates, and I'm afraid someone's gonna change after this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26568	The replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26569	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Boric, you're right. As to the publication of the register, it would have been better if we'd waited and talked about it, held public debates. This is how the defense registry is going to cause a fight and fight the defenders whether they want it or not. However, I answered because here maybe a minute ago, two of them called me Mr. Dedakovic and asked him, first of all, to welcome you, Madam Chairman and all the parliamentary representatives and asked that we not mention his name in the assembly and that his case is not politicized because he does not want it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26570	Thank you very much. Comrade Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26571	Thank you. Dear colleague Boris, in connection with the final sentences of your presentation on how those who will not be on this list will feel. We don't have to worry about that. The Croatian public already knows in what times who could have been the Croatian defender and who the possibility was, and I would even say that privilege since I really believe that we are a chosen generation who has granted the privilege. In the end, who also fulfilled his constitutional obligation under Article 47 that the military obligation and defence of the Republic of Croatia is the duty of all competent citizens to do so. And I don't believe any of those who won't be there, and they know they weren't hurt by it. The publication of the Croatian Defence Register is intended to strengthen the reputation and honor of those who had the opportunity and took advantage of it, and for all those who were not, I said in the debate, and I would also like it to be published as well as the register of those who had the opportunity and did not fulfil the constitutional obligation. For many have carried out the constitutional obligation of the defence of the Republic of Croatia in other ways, beyond the provisions. And that's what we need to talk about. And those who are both members of HEP and the hydrogen, and therefore the hospital, health workers, everyone, the firemen. They are all responsible for the defense and have fulfilled the constitutional obligation. But there are also those who were... The battle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why don't we also publish the register of those who are or... which were either in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's how my colleague Mandic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26572	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26573	Mr. Buric, I think I put that question right because, first of all, not all the environments were in the field of war. There were also those who were in some period, in an area that did not cover war. Within that area I know personally numerous people whom the state did not call, did not call out regardless of their age to a certain activity concerning military activities. They didn't escape, they were there, but they weren't needed by the state because she couldn't seem to serve everyone she might have needed at some point. That's why I asked the question. I remember how those people felt in that time and '95. And after that. They felt perhaps less valuable than those we today speak of as honorable. Who says we're not gonna give him back the same feeling today? Shall we put it there? Someone's gonna type it in and stuff, so you're not there. Where have you been? You were 20. Where have you been? We'll discuss it here. I think there's a lot of that, because I'm saying if the number is 500,000, and we're 4 million. Believe there's a lot of them in that crowd and they weren't deserters and they weren't running away. And there were opportunities for the army as long as it needed and how many calls she shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26574	And the last replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26575	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Buric, you said this was a whim of Croatian politics. I don't agree with you, this is a misery of pictures of Croatian politics, this is a tragedy of Croatian current policy, this is the emptyness of Croatian current policy, this is a proof of emptyness, unideality, unsustainability, imperceptibility of this policy and not a whim. And you know what I'm worried about? Not because of this publication of the list, but I'm worried that the number of unemployed may rise to 500 thousand in a month, two days, so there will be more unemployed than defenders. Now that's the question of all the questions in Croatia today. And this is a waste of time today, and I'm sorry and the time of these debaters on this side, and I'm sorry that I kind of had to replicate on this side. Emptyness, so do you gentlemen know they're forbidden to publish where you were at the JNA? Personal so-called The record of JNA that we have each of us who served JNA is forbidden to publish. Do you know that? If I had been sued by the court because, in some way, through some TV show of mine, I was on the BUSCOC, the DORH was investigating me for the fact that I said something or showed some personal record of JNA. And here we want to announce the defenders. Are we normal? No, we didn't. I'm sorry about the time and all this together. But I'm not sorry about the time because here we are, so we're sitting, but I'm sorry, or I'm afraid of the fact that in a month or two, there will be more unemployed than defenders. And that is the real question of Croatia and the question of all questions at this point. And this isn't even a real question, it's an empty straw beating.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26576	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26577	A colleague of Marasović's... a different name and trying to interpret the purpose and purpose of publishing this law with all the consequences it will produce in future time. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] And I'm saying I tried that in the simplest way that it was a pre-election promise, but the prime minister recently said they didn't make pre-election promises, that it had nothing to do with pre-election promises, and the minister kept saying that it was at least to keep something. And I claim that this pre-election promise is not good and that not today, not in two months or three months, maybe in a year or two, we'll have certain consequences, and then, as usual, we'll be a little late, we'll get some ash and move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26578	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It is Boris Blazekovic who is not present. Damir Cain, also loses his right to debate. Josip Djakic, please. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26579	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ma'am. I don't know if you're an assistant or if you're in the ministry, I'm sorry, Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues. It is saddened that there is no minister, and it is even sadder that we are so few in the assembly, but the saddest thing is that unfortunately we are on the subject in which we should all be united because the defenders are on the one hand and on the other. Fortunately, '91. We weren't looking at political options, we were looking at how to defend the Homeland. If we had lamentated like today, ask God if we would be sitting in this high house today. Is the register of Croatian defenders something that we need to fight so much about? Did all these past years have to be Satanized by the defenders, should they have been forced from time to time to time to have the defenders have such privileges or privileges? First of all, the defenders have no privileges, they have something that the House of Commons gave them, and none of these people went to the Homeland War to create some kind of privilege. But when we get out of the context of time and space where certain things happened, certain battles, where any units you can't practically find two or three cities that had the same or similar situation. Every city, every area that was attacked by the Jujuarmia and the Chetnik had its own specificity. The brigades were organized somewhere. They're not somewhere. Let's go back to '91. and remember, on January 19th, when the chairman of the SFRJ Mesic presidency then fled Belgrade because they practically wanted to kill him, so when the military wanted to go to the streets, we had nothing but special units that were just in the draft. So then we had the National Protection Units and then there was a bloody Easter, it was Borovo, and then they followed all the casualties. How in what area were the units organized, and so the people defended themselves. Only with the fall of some military in the fall of '91. They created preconditions to form armed units but based on some lists and lists of territorial defences that were still from the former Yugoslavia. And so, in principle, the Croatian Army began to form. And now get out of all of this who was the defender, who wasn't, so there are institutions that were supposed to do it and record it. Whether they did their job or not is another pair of shoes. How something has been done so and for all other solutions are nothing from time indefinite to time indefinite. All can be eliminated as well if there are arguments. But whether it is necessary to Satanize the defenders and whether it is necessary to keep that story to false defenders. I'm the opponent of being told he's a false defender. We only have defenders and we have guys who want to show that they're defenders, and they're not. Because of the dignity of all the defenders, all the dead, because of the dignity of our country, we must not use the term of false defender, because there is no false defender, you have a fraud who can be a fraud in all forms, and so we need to eliminate, and we don't accept something that someone throws at us a story with false defenders. Well, everyone in their midst knows where he was and how he was. Through my 153 brigade. There were seven and a half thousand people, but because of specificity we had something that had practically no city in Croatia, we had so-called. space units that were associated with the airport, military around the airport, this ZTC which was the largest service center for moments outside Russia and this large warehouse of Buna where it was practically the warehouse of the territorial defence plan of the city of Zagreb. These were these spatial units that little where you could find them in shape, and it took us a long time to put those spatial ones in any form at all to get what they belong to. I'm just talking about one specificity, and we're wasting our time today, instead of helping these Croatian defenders who are very sick, many of them are out of work, how to see, how to solve their existential issues, we're dealing with something and we're breaking up which is totally irrelevant. We apologize to everyone for comparing some things now. So pompous was announced Mr. Minister's famous debt list. Everything will be settled in Croatia when it is published, it existed, it was published, 10, 15 days after a neighbor, a friend of friends, an enemy of the enemy, a little talk, no talk anymore, unfortunately nothing has been charged and the story is finished. It'll be the same for you with the list of defense attorneys. Mr. Matić, no one should tell you where you lived in Vukovar who he was. You well know which werewolf is the fourth month, which is a werewolf for eight months, and who are the wolves who stayed until the end, just like every one of us here in his town where anyone has been and doesn't need any great philosophy, so go as if it were the most important thing in this world to publish a defence register, I think that you as a minister have lost all your energy in that you may have to seek the help of all MPs and surely there as a resolute minister would have the support to strengthen some of the positions on your budget with Croatian defenders. I think the energy should be invested there, and let's say the Croatian defenders have one big building, and today unfortunately the heating goes 38.5% to send them a message because today it's Saint Lucia, the day of my city's protector, and the day of my city that you sent them a message, I'm going to help you pay for the heating and then you'd have the support of all of us here for that law. But if unfortunately we're fighting here about the Croatian Defence Register, then on the one hand, we have our own arguments, others have others, then some of us start shooting around and then we go in the wrong direction. You are fortunate to be at the head of the Ministry although you cleverly propose laws all your laws will be passed with... And did General Gotovina and General Markac show what unity of the Croats when it comes to the Homeland War? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This same unity when it comes to the rights of Croatian defenders but you, as a resolute minister, must not allow anyone to talk about privileges and that is your task as a resolute minister because simply these people do not have privileges. Everything they get, we vote here. If someone thinks that Croatian defenders don't need to get something, you know what are the legitimate rights in which laws can be applied, let them propose laws, let him explain it, if he gets most of them to change it. But he can't talk about privileges, and there's a big mistake, Mr. Minister, that we're not talking about many Croatian defenders who are unemployed today, which we're not talking about many Croatian defenders who have entered certain entrepreneurial projects can't repay credits today, about how the position of housing funds increases, that we end this story once and for all, and that we would have support, we shouldn't even react as nervously as we have reacted. And be assured of such things you will always have the support of me and my colleagues at the HDZ club, but also support for something that will not bring anything and can make a great injustice to some people you will never win. And that's why you don't need to be nervous. It's our right to think of one thing, I told you if you listened when my colleague Buric answered something personal, I'm very interested in how you're going to do it now. I have all the documents, I never said that in my closets. Well, I wonder what you're gonna do now. I have every legitimate right to say it, and when you guys are drilling so hard that you want to do something, I wonder what you're gonna do. You will receive all documents, six cities per Croatia by size. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26580	Thank you. Replica, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26581	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with what you said in your debate, especially I would like to say a few words about the topic you have opened and which has often been used with us when talking about defenders and mentioning privileges, etc. and benefits or I don't know how these people didn't call, and that all these discussions I have such... Water to impose a dangerous thesis that 500 thousand Croatian defenders is a great burden for this country, that 500 thousand Croatian defenders basket billions and billions of kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth is completely different. The fact is that even today here are 15 years after the end of the war, little more and more, which year over, almost 380 thousand Croatian defenders are doing their job and feeding themselves and their family, that 70 thousand of those who are beneficiaries of the rights stemming from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, that there are 58 thousand Croatian wartime people and persons who have earned the right to retire because of the disease that 12 thousand families are killed, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, so only the victims' population enjoy the rights of the law. As regards Croatian defenders who do not have HRV status, they have only 2.3 rights, the right to participate in the Croatian Defence Fund, have the right to bury the cost of the state, have the right to a protected pension, provided they have 65 years of life for men or 60 years for women and have participated in the war for at least 100 days. So what are the rights? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26582	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26583	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm glad you've further dismembered mystics about this privilege and the rights of Croatian defenders. And even when we talk about the defense attorney's pension being below 40% of the average salary, we're not talking about any privilege. These people, when they retire, have so far worked neatly to pay their pension fund whether it will have 3.4 or 5% pensions from it, the Croatian state will neither fail nor be helped. But it was simply the law that tried to say that there was some kind of minimum, some recognition of society to people who at some point went and had the honour and everyone who participated that we had the honour and the happiness of participating in the creation of the Croatian state. Thank God we stayed alive and healthy. But also those who have lost a part of the body who have died mentally, unfortunately, should be cared for by the state. And never, when we talk about privileged pensions in the status of privileged pensions, should we talk about pensions of people with disabilities from the Homeland War, can we simply not talk about them because they are not privileged pensions because they are not privileged pensions. That's the minimum we could give them for what they gave for this country. And for that you must fight, Mr. Minister, and if you fight for it, you will have the full support of all of us at the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26584	Thank you very much. A new replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26585	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Shuker at the beginning when you started your debate when you were saying what a certain situation was like in a particular city, municipality or region, and you were right when you said that. And the first units from Zagorje when they were moving on the battlefield in the 10th month we knew exactly who was going. And then there was still from the territorial defense was that structure of the diversant platoon against... the independent company so it wasn't the formation of the Croatian army. And you said yourself that we knew who he was. However, Djakic said in one of his discussions and last time we had in our first reading and today who will remember everyone who was, a lot of people went through the troops. But every commander of the water knew his men every commander of the tenth. Otherwise, we know very quickly from our area who was on the battlefield who wasn't, but we don't know that's our list. We don't know who's on the list. You can read the list we will immediately within a few minutes at least I for my unit will immediately know if someone is on that list who shouldn't be. And that's the key to the whole story. That's one thing. Secondly, I have not heard in the first reading or in the second reading of anyone in this assembly who has mentioned the privileges of the defender in any single word. I haven't heard it in a single word that someone has said that any right by defenders or widows or children of the victim is a privilege. I didn't hear that. But look, we're talking about a debate in this House. We're discussing it, there's always been a fool and a war out there, and we have to make peace with that fact, and we're never gonna convince everyone that the sun is coming and going. But there was no mention of that in this High House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26586	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26587	Thank you very much. My colleague, I think this debate of ours clearly shows that we could have discussed this law without a problem, but someone has imposed the subject of the register. Not a month ago, but a few years ago as a first-class political topic, and that's the problem. I'm telling you how we did practically from the lowest commander... and that's how it was done. I was talking on purpose about these spatial units because it was the specifics of the Great Gorica. You space units can't find anywhere in Croatia because of what I said. And those people had the biggest problem getting them into legal units, but that's what people did. But what matters is that we need to know only 42,000 has been continuous for all five years through the armed forces of only 42,000. I told you my brigade was over 7.5 thousand people. But someone deliberately, I repeat on purpose, turned the register into a subject of political reckoning and that's what's not good. But I'm glad you're replicating it because it shows that we can talk because we're thinking the exact same thing. Because with the same goal with the same love for our country, we all fought for it. There was no war in Zagorec, but they passed all the battlefields and left the bone everywhere just like my Gorics. We had our front but we were a tactical group and there were us from the south to the west battlefield everywhere. So out of respect for them, let's get this story out of the way and I'll give you the register for Christmas. So you know what that means? Give people material rights for Christmas then they'll appreciate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26588	Thank you very much. We ended up with replicas and responses to the replica. That's the end word. Okay. There's a Dinko Buric written down. Dear Representative Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26589	A fellow Shuker in connection with the advent of false defenders, that's something that bothers me very much by dividing me into false and true defenders. But I'm going to quote you, and I've been thinking, in my debate, whether or not I used that term and then I used it because I'm going to quote Mr. Ivic from the first reading debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club at one point said no one is against the detection of false defenders. Listen, I'm in a dilemma now, too, if that's what the former Croatian Defence Minister says and use that syntagma of false defenders, which is what's left for the rest of us than to use the same expression for those who don't belong in the Croatian Defence Register. And I agree with you that we need him as little as possible. The bloody Easter you mentioned, a very important thing. Why is this Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence as important as the Declaration of the Homeland War? Because it once again confirms in that definition who is a volunteer, since 5 August 1990 it confirms that it is the Homeland War and that all those who put on the uniform before 8 October 1991 that we have defended the Republic of Croatia in legal units, not in paramilitary units, as the Croatian court has written in the ruling of General Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26590	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26591	My colleague Buric, when I was talking about false defenders, I was saying my position. And I think that all of us should simply stop using that term when we talk about defenders, simply because of the dignity of all people who died above all, give their lives for this Croatia should use it. Thieves and swindlers are thieves and frauds in whatever segment you want, and therefore, because of one breakthrough, you don't need to generalize everything. That's my attitude and I said it in my debate. And as for the date, you know well that practically with the balvan revolution when it started practically in Rakiti they started to come first volunteers because we knew what was waiting for us and what poor little weapons, only better things don't talk about because I can charge you with a lot of things, but I repeat, let's get that secretion off the Croatian Defence Register, we're taking care of the rights, all that's done well, we're going to improve some more things and we're dealing with problems that don't happen to us much more Mila Dedakovic unfortunately, defenders who don't have any rights, and we don't know for them, and we don't know because they't so much media attractive. And Mr. Minister's registry won't do you any good, so be assured. Many lists have been published in this country, however, a list of Kosovoers who tried to create a diversion at the end of the 8th month when they were forced to land... planes in Zagreb Airport, so our boys met them there in Mičevac and....
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26592	Thank you very much. Now we've really exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. The final word of the respected Defence Minister Fred Matic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26593	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians. Here in the final word, we talked all day about amendments and additions to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Before the closing words themselves, I would like to apologize to everyone for speaking the hard words, but I also ask you to understand me for the man who has paid two parking tickets in his life I find it difficult to fall when my friends are invited to Vukovar and ask them if you have anything for Fred to make mistakes and you simply can't understand that there is no. And those two parking tickets I paid for. Unfortunately, I don't keep payments because it was before the war. Mr. Shucker, for your answer. It is amazingly surprising that, therefore, it is true and regrettable that there are crisis presidents throughout Croatia who are not on the honorable list of Croatian defenders, and I am more surprised by that, and you children are rightly asked why you are not on the list of Croatian defenders and I am sorry about that. However, I will remind you that the late mayor Drnisha Ante Djavalija recently died and we had trouble providing him with a funeral with military honors he certainly deserved, but the man was not, everyone was surprised only the day he died everyone was surprised that he was not on the list of Croatian defenders, but we settled it with the president as a significant person who contributed to the Republic of Croatia for his life. It's important here to point out that you incredibly, I'm saying, this right-hand side that opposes the publication of the register, you constantly seem to be defending yourself there was so much. Not a single moment except, of course, intimately I have the right as well as the esteemed representative Buric to ask a question really if we were half a million di would be the end of us, but we do not express our doubts. For me, all 501666 are Croatian defenders, and we will publish this honorary register, there is no choir. Whether there were 200 thousand, 300, 500, I even allow it to be 800 because I know that there are people who are not in the Croatian Defence Register, and they were Croatian defenders and that's just as controversial. So it's not a questionable number at all. You were or you weren't. In the end, this is the debt of all of us surviving Croatian defenders to those who died, according to nearly 10,000 dead Croatian defenders who wouldn't care if they were listed together with those who were in Munich, as you say, they don't care. I, whenever I come to Vukovar to the cemetery, I have one debt to my friends, I have no conscience, I've been there, I've offered myself, I've offered myself the same as they, the bullet wanted him, he didn't want me, sometimes I regret that he didn't want me, I really regret it the most honest. And this amendment and the addition of the law without politicizing is very positive, it's very good. It has been improved in all possible segments, according to only one principle that there is no funds. We can't break through. Even this part that we said, which here is suspected of not being able to materially achieve on the side of the residential for which they need large amounts of funds. But for these other things we will internally redistribute despite the reduced budget we will find the means to fulfill everything that is written in the law, to the extent that this can be done. The law, I urge you to agree to amend and supplement this law unanimously tomorrow. It is our debt, and an integral part of this law is, of course, the Register of Croatian defenders which we will publish on the pride and honor of all Croatian defenders and will be a list of names for eternity. All those who suffered died. This is where a thousand-year struggle for Croatia was mentioned. Those who are on this list are those people who have achieved a thousand-year-old Croatian dream. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26594	Thank you very much. Now we have a line of replicas. The first replica and respected representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26595	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, tomorrow this honorable House will pass this law, there is no dilemma at all. The register will be published, and let it go to the conscience of those who will raise their hand for it. But I want to tell you, you'll be the first to have trouble publishing the register. Take your book "Nothing False" which you wrote and compare the data from this book to the data that stands in your war route in the Croatian Defence Register. Here you mention that you entered the Croatian army 3.9.91. A year. See what the Croatian Defence Register says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26596	Replication response, Honored Minister Fred Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26597	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivić, for the book commercial, and I recommend to anyone who hasn't read it. They don't have to buy it, I'll give it to whoever wants it. So everything that says in that book is probably in the register. I'll defend my war route in the register, I'll publish it first to fully understand all the faithless Tom and all the faithless Toms who don't believe in the warpath. I will defend him with my own honor. I've said it many times, gentlemen, so you can't pay two parking tickets. If I have to, I'll pay them again because I lost my bills. You can't, you have to understand that there are people, there are trust me. There are people in Croatia and in other countries who have not sinned in the laws of this country, who live honestly their entire lives. And here, except for this double-park crime, there's nothing wrong with me as hard as you're trying. Here, I call here honorary parliamentary representatives, there's probably a phonogram, to compare the contents of the book with my war route. Here, I'm calling. What Dinko Mikulić would say, we worked with him, I pay the lamb if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26598	Pay us the lamb when you're right and right sometimes. Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26599	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, there is no law or any legal solution that is ideal. There is no law that offers answers to all questions and solutions to all problems. Nor will this legal solution solve all the problems of Croatian defenders and members of their families. But we at the HDSSB club really think that such a legal solution with these amendments and additions is a positive shift towards achieving the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. We hope that the funds will be provided for the fulfillment of all that is written in the law. Because if it stays just a dead letter on paper then it won't do any good. And when it comes to what caused the biggest recommendations, and this is the Croatian Defence Office, we talked about it a lot. I would just not have said that in the debate I reminded you that you might still consider on page four if you have time to take advantage of the employment benefits that people make. It says it can't be achieved under point 17. If it's a imposed sentence of termination of service before, then canceling the service if they haven't satisfied at trial work, written termination, etc. This cancellation of the service if they are not satisfied with the trial work can call into question the achievement of theoretically may question the right to take advantage of employment, because then everyone can only be admitted to the trial work, meet the condition that he has had the advantage of employment and then cancels him, calls for a new competition and he no longer has the advantage of taking advantage of this already one right. Think about it. That's what I forgot to say in the debate, and I wanted to warn you of that potential danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26600	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Fred Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26601	I thank Representative Buric for today's day-long constructive debate. Thank you very much. You said a lot of things I meant to say myself, but I didn't. But I know you're always as honest with me as you are with me, and thank you for that. And here I agree, too, but look, we'll try. The law is, we've seen it in these 20 years can always play. Our intentions are fair and honorable and we will strive to defend the defenses in any case, so we have put in those criminal provisions, and the gap in the law can always be found. But for the end. The law is also living tissue. If they show up, as we have done here, to change and supplement the law, if the needs for any further additions and amendments are shown in the next period, we will do so. All in favor of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26602	Thank you, Minister. Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26603	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I listen very carefully to you when you have discussed the law in the first reading and now in the second reading. I must tell you that you have not been able to convince me enough what the goal is, what is the purpose and what you want to achieve by publishing the Croatian Defence Register, except for the impression that it is primarily done to try to determine which ones were real and which ones are not. For me it's... the second time, we're at the HDZ Club both in the first and second readings trying to explain that for what you want you shouldn't have published the register. But there's something else I wanted to tell you. This law, apart from enabling the publication of the Defence Register, also provides some new rights for Croatian defenders. Well, you see, there is a minister who, after this law, needs to convince all of us in Croatia that there is not enough resources in the state budget to pay off existing rights to public sector employees, while at the same time you promise Croatian defenders some new rights. Well, either Minister Mrsic is incompetent, and you're a magician or something else because of what I really don't know. Therefore, it is not clear to me that at the moment we abolish existing rights, the Christmas card for this year and next year and the regression for next year that at the same time you in the budget have funds for housing that are huge and for other rights prescribed by this law. It really doesn't seem to hold water and there's not much logic in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26604	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Fred Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26605	I'm glad you asked these questions, so I'll answer you. So there's not much logic in many things that we've seen for the past 20 years. Here if you wanted to now as it is said in the jargon to throw a bone between me and my colleague Mrssic I'm telling you that this part is about a small number. Look, you've mentioned widows, and you've had so much trouble with it, or criticism about it. So far, we have eight of those widows who don't know what to do with themselves in the next year or two days and we give them that supply. This is about 1100 kuna per month for a period of year, for a maximum of two years and we will do so within our reserves, within the ministry, within the budgets that we will arrange and do not need any additional funds. And here, when you're talking about workers, peasants, proletarians, and all that is about hundreds of thousands of people, that's a different story. The publication of the register, the register is not published that someone would search for something by hunting witches. Says the old saying, "Clear up in front of your yard so you can call others." Mr. Buric has mentioned Mr. Marasovic more than once, and I'll just list some. Croatian defenders are the moral verticals of this society if there is anything yet that is moral in this country that remains even more defenders. When we publish the register we have a lot of right to ask if the public is interested in who they were and how much more does a partisan pension, how many of these abolized people have a list to publish, the defenders aren't against it. Dr. Crescent. Marasovic asked for a list of students to be published, to be published. List of agricultural land users, why not? It's the 21st century, so that's where you voted the Law on the right to access information. Well, he's no longer the mayor of the community or the mayor of God that he can't be asked anything. I can ask him everything, where my resources give me the right to ask him. Therefore, Croatian citizens have the right to know who they are paying for military pensions, whether they are defending, whether they are Partisan, whether they are other or third, you know there are them there and they are silent. I don't have ideological prejudices, you publish everything. No secrets in Croatia, no secrets. The 21st century is people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26606	Thank you, Minister. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26607	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there's a list of good wishes in front of us that won't be realised because there's no money. That's exactly what we can say. We can say that none of these wish lists will come true. But it will deprive Croatian defenders of the advantage of employment in leading jobs in public enterprises. This has been put into law, and therefore this law is not entirely for the sake of dignity, but even for the shortfall of Croatian defenders. And when you talk about achieving volunteers who are two or more years old in the Croatian Army, I would like to ask you what number have you established of those who exercise their right and who do not have legal obstacles? And second of all, tell me, how long will this widow exercise the right to once-in-a-lifetime financial assistance to obtain the right to retire after a dead disabled person? When you answer that with certainty what is this number say how you'll cover them when they're situationed? They have land, a car, they have a tractor, a house, and they don't satisfy the social censorship that's meant for supplies that are only for those who are the poorest?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26608	Replication response, Honored Minister Fred Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26609	Thank you very much. So, of course, every law is a list of beautiful desires. I beg you as well as a month ago here when we talked about the Communist Crimes Research Office and the War Victims wait for the year, the year will pass, I will appear here if God, if not someone else, in a year and I will justify everything I have said. We'll see what we've achieved. This question of how many housing units will be solved, same as in recent years, the same. Maybe less, maybe more. Only now will they have the right to have more people, those volunteers, so we have advocated them, and I am strictly in favour of that initiative. Second, how many widows will there be? Well, as many as there are. God forbid there's as few of them as possible, but no matter how many of them there are, we'll figure it out. When you say this as much as they have land and this, so it's in the law if there's no other income of property, etc., I mean it's all listed. Look, who wants to see it this way and who wants to see it that way? I think the best answer is I'll see you in a year, we'll read the report, and the numbers won't lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26610	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for questioning. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met, I hope tomorrow morning. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, second reading, PZ No. 208. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'd like a representative of the motionary, the esteemed Deputy Secretary of Defense Vesna Nadj, to show himself. Let's get this straight. Amendment No. 1 Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26612	Amendment number 1 is not accepted and the following explanation is not accepted. Article 14 The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, National Journal 137/09, stipulates that on the day of entry into force of this law, therefore on 21 November 2009, the recognition of the status of a member of the family of the death-suffering Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the right to a family disability on the basis of the death of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War as a result of the disease, the deterioration of the disease or the occurrence of a disease in the defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendment would not allow the re-recognition of the status of a member of the family of the dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the right to a family disability on the basis of the death of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War on that basis, since the proposed provision would be in conflict with that article of the applicable law. In 2009, it is noted that during the long period of time since the end of the Homeland War, the recognition of the status of members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders could no longer be established by medical skill with certainty by the end of the long period of time since the end of the Homeland War, due to the disease with the participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Since it has been three years since the entry into force of this provision, it would be even more difficult for the artificial authorities to establish the cause of the death of the Croatian defender due to the disease as a consequence of participation in the defence of the Homeland War. The provisions of the applicable law governing the status of the deadly Croatian defender from the Homeland War have not been changed as a result of the suicide, so unfounded claims are that such provisions of the final proposal of the law also encourage Croatian defenders to commit suicide.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26613	Dear Deputy Minister, you can make it easier for us to understand the explanation. And now a representative of the amendment's proposer, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26614	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, we cannot agree with your argument because due to the unequal criteria of determining the status of the deadly Croatian defender, members of the family or widow of the dead HRVI, other than the 100% family, are in a completely unequal position because they recognise the status of the family of the deadly Croatian defender only if the death occurred as a result of the suicide. These provisions of the applicable law and the final proposal of the law encourage Croatian defenders to commit suicide so that their family can exercise basic existential rights and that is why we cannot accept the law. In view of all those who have been ill in the past, and there are others, you have seen how many, along with the 2,000 defenders who have committed suicide in this way, you continue to encourage, because of the existential foundations of your family and widows that will remain, to encourage Croatian defenders to commit suicide. I believe you know what you're doing. ... /The noise in the hall./... I believe you know what you're doing in this way, since 12,000 Croatian defenders died of malignant diseases, as well as cardiovascular diseases since '95. until 2011. Mortality has increased by 116% and this is why it should now introduce the possibility of obtaining a family disability as well as family pensions to Croatian widows and should not make a difference. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26615	But, Your Honor, I am convinced that the Croatian Democratic Community does not share your position and the qualification that you have said, I am convinced of that. Now you're gonna... Let me use the Rules of Procedure the way I think it's best. [[You can't hear it.]] If you think I made a mistake several times I told you that you have the right to open the debate in Parliament, you have the right to request a statement from the competent authority. And my point of view and the protection of values that I believe I have the right to protect I said in the easiest way. Qualifying that someone encourages suicide, if you're behind it, just say the honourable representative. ... I said I'm convinced, not that you think or don't think. ... [[You can't hear it.]] All right, all right. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] If I have offended any member or club or member of the Croatian Democratic Community with my own opinion, I apologize deeply, but I am convinced of what I said. Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Please amend number two of the HDZ Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26616	Amendment number two is not accepted with the following explanation. Article 8 paragraph 2 of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families proposed to comply with the case law of the Administrative Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, or the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, which confirmed in the rulings that the advantage in the employment referred to in Article 35 of the current Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families does not apply to management posts. In the same way, competent inspections have also taken place, which have also decided in their decisions, in a way that the advantage in the employment referred to in Article 35 of that Law cannot be applied to management posts. It is not about individual cases which are segregated from the application of Article 35 of the Law but about the position of the court which has been applied in all the same cases which appeared before the Court of Justice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law is the employment of unemployed Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families primarily of children killed, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who can develop and be deployed to executive jobs after employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26617	I'd like a representative of the motionary, the HDZ Representatives' Club to be made manifest. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And please don't ever doubt what I say in front of the club again, because this act, which came to the President of the Parliament as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is signed by the motionary. So I don't know what your comments are. First of all, I would like to say that we cannot accept the explanation of the Deputy Vice-President in relation to this amendment, given that Articles 2 and 4 of Article 35 deprives defenders of the priority in employment in case of employment in the case of jobs and work tasks established by law and other legal regulations as managers of public administration bodies. In the light of the proposal and the opinions given on the proposal for a law which was not adopted by the applicant, the applicant states that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, held with its rulings that the priority in employment cannot be realised when the guiding posts are the same in all decisions as the competent inspection, and there is no reason not to prescribe the same law for the purpose of predicting today's case-law. However, the applicant does not state the tax rulings of the Administrative Court, i.e. the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, and can only conclude from such a flat-rate formulation that it is possible that individual cases are singled out, and these cases cannot in any way serve as an excuse for short-term advantage in the employment of defenders in the guiding posts. In particular, it should be pointed out that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states in its Article 4 that the Republic of Croatia is governed by the principle of the division of the authorities in the legislative, executive, judicial, and limited by the constitution of the guaranteed rights to local and regional (regional) self-government. Nevertheless, the proposer of case law gives power to a legislative authority which the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia does not have. And for this reason, I ask for a vote on this amendment, given that it is also a constitutional category of denying employment rights in public authorities' management jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26619	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number of the two HDZ Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number three of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26620	Amendment number three is not accepted with the following explanation. The Ministry of Defence does not have enough human and technical resources to take over and continue all the work on the organisation and implementation of housing for the purpose of assigning finished dwellings to persons on the list of home care championships of the Ministry of Defence. It is not justified that the partial business of the organised housing is transferred from a public-legal body which has successfully carried out those tasks for many years and there are no economically acceptable reasons for changing competences and in the field of organised housing. Of course, in the current institutional framework, cooperation between the body of the administration should be improved in order to achieve the best effects of organised housing. There is also no legal obstacle for representatives of Croatian defenders' associations from the Homeland War to be appointed to a commission to select bidders for organised housing of victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26621	I'd like a representative of the HDZ Representatives' Club to show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, ma'am, we can't accept your argument. We are encouraged by the frequent objections of Croatian wartime wartime disableds from the Homeland War in connection with unqualityly built apartments based on the Program to organise construction for the housing of the victims of the Homeland War. We propose that it be transferred to the power of the Croatian Defence Ministry and that a proposal be adopted on the appointment of members of the Croatian Defence Association on the Commission for the selection of bidders to organise the housing of victims of the Homeland War. But since we see that you have not provided the necessary means to complete the housing, it is hard to expect that anything will be done to keep the housing in common with the units of local self-government and to further increase the capacity of those who will be entitled to housing, and these are volunteers who have been satisfied in the Croatian Army for over two years. The quality to be monitored, which is the category in contract forms, which can be charged from that insurance provided by each contractor is not applied and should be applied. The Ministry of Civil Engineering is not concerned about this, and it is therefore necessary that the Ministry of Defence do so in order for the defenders themselves to monitor the course of those public procurement procedures in organised construction as well as the quality course of such construction. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26623	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 3. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Please, Amendment No. 4th of the same club of MPs. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26624	Amendment No. 4. is not accepted with the following explanation, the extension of the circle of persons entitled to favour accommodation in homes of social care which the founder of the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional (regional) self-government cannot be accepted since this right is provided primarily for the most difficult Croatian military disabled in the Homeland War, of which the vast majority have obtained the right to care and help of another person. As is the case with Croatian wartime disabled persons who need special care and care, this is a real advantage and at present justified for Croatian wartime wartime people with physical damage from at least 80 to 100%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26625	I'd like a representative of the club of respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26626	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we cannot accept your argument, and we can safely say that the final proposal of the law is an advantage in housing in homes of social care that only those with disabilities of the Homeland War who are with damage to the body from 100% and the group to 80% of physical damage. Since Croatian wartime people with a lower percentage of damage to the organism are categories with lower and low incomes and satisfy the social component which is intended to achieve this article, and does not require any additional financial resources other than formal identification of the order of advantages we suggest that priority be recognised in housing in homes of social care to all Croatian military disabled persons, depending on the established degree of damage to the body, and not only 100% of the first group and up to 80% of the physical damage. I think that what you don't accept is just strict politics, not that you don't recognize the real need to be the ones who are low-income on the ranking list and who are actually the social category today. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26627	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 4. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'd like you to make a statement to the Deputy Minister on Amendment No. 5th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26628	Amendment No. 5. is not accepted with the following explanation, Article 109c of the final draft law is fully in line with the provisions of the Data Protection Act as it is provided that personal data other than the consent may be published in the case of a specific law which is currently provided for in Article 109c of the final proposal of the Law. In addition to those constitutional provisions, personal data may only be used subject to the conditions laid down in the law. The final draft law lays down the conditions for the use of personal data and the legitimate purpose for their publication. We believe that further strengthening of the dignity, honor and reputation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War will be influenced by the publication of data from the Defence Register because this publicly published list can serve only on the honor and pride of those recorded in the Defence Register and participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in the armed resistance of the aggressor and the action in connection with this resistance. It is precise that the data that are classified and will not be published before they are declassified by the owner of the MUP data, i.e. MORH by the rules on the confidentiality of the data.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26629	I would like a representative of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26630	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, we cannot agree with your argument that we have sent this amendment, in which we propose that the abolition of the provisions relating to the public publication of the Defence Register is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 37, which guarantees the security and confidentiality of personal data and the laws which provide for the confidentiality and protection of personal data of persons from the security data of the Croatian State, that is, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Data Privacy Act and the Data Protection Regulations in the Defence and the Data Protection Regulations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. These are all acts that regulate the confidentiality of personal data and the protection of Croatian defenders. The publication does not meet its purpose of strengthening the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and promoting the value of the Homeland War since no interrogation has been conducted nor has any official or credible poll by defenders of the vast majority of Croatian defenders and associations declared against the announcement. And its application would have far more extensive consequences for the safety of Croatian defenders as well as a restriction in their freedom of movement. On the basis of a public announcement made available via the internet in today's political uncertainty situation in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs calls on Croatian citizens not to travel to Serbia, no one can guarantee the safety of Croatian defenders nor can give them the guarantee that they will not be arrested and falsely charged as the defender of Tihomir Purda experienced, and Croatian defender Veljko Maric maintains the prison sentence in Serbia. Since there are institutions that can legally establish possible illegalities in the acquisition of the right of a defence attorney, the question is, what is the public’s service and whether the public will determine who is the real one and who is the false Croatian defender? I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26631	Thank you very much. We would like to make a statement on Amendment 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to amendment number six of the same club representatives. Dear Deputy Minister, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26632	Amendment No 6 shall not be accepted with the following explanation. Recognising the right of spouses and extramarital friends who have recognised the status of family member of the death-injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the deceased Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War, the first to the fourth group and the corresponding rights lost by way of a new marriage, the extramarital community will not be able to achieve the opposite of Article 14. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, NN 137/09. It is clear from the text of Article 35 of the final proposal of the law that the spouse or extramarital comrade of the death-sufficient Croatian defender of the Homeland War who granted the right to this status by virtue of the disease as the cause of the death of the Croatian defender and the status and the right to do so have ceased because of the conclusion of marriage or the extramarital community will not be able to regain the rights to the family disability as well as other rights under the law. The status of a member of the family, the death-sufficient Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the right to belong, will be recognizable to a married or extramarital second who has lost that status and due to the conclusion of a marriage or an extramarital community only if that status has been recognised for the following reasons. Their spouse or extramarital comrade from the Homeland War died in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, was killed in captivity in an enemy camp, committed suicide as a result of a mental illness caused by participation in the Homeland War or died from wounds or injuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26633	I would like a representative of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26634	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Vice-President, a married extramarital friend from Article 6 of this law who has obtained the right to recognise the status of members of the family of the dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the deceased Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War from the first to the fourth group by entering a new marriage or extramarital community cease to be members of the family of the deadly Croatian defender from the Homeland War or the deceased Croatian wartime invalid, As you have decided, so you should have allowed the children of Croatian defenders to use their father's pension after 18 years of school or after finishing their education, as you have allowed the widows who make up the new marriage union. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26635	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 6 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7 of the same Club of Representatives. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26636	Amendment No 7 is not accepted with the reason that the medical documentation that suicide is due to participation in the Homeland War can only be established without skill, means with an assessment of the skills through a second-degree or first-degree medical commission. In this case, no skill is required, so we deleted the art from this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26637	I would like a representative of the HDZ Proposition Club, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26638	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy. Well, we can't accept your argument since we made it clear in the first amendment about these things when you panicked about it. Now there is no need for skill if suicide is committed, it should not be a causal link in order to achieve the existence of a family of the mortally injured Croatian defender who is no longer required and who will only be an assessment of who in the Ministry gave this suicide matter and the consequences of the behaviour of the service in the Homeland War. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26639	I would like to make a statement on Amendment 7 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 8 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26640	Amendment No 8 shall not be accepted with the reasons we have already given in addition to the amendment not to accept the article, Amendment No 1 on non-acceptance of the Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26641	Thank you very much. I would like a representative of the Proposer Club, the respected representative of Josip Djakic to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26642	Thank you very much. Well, Madam Deputy, by the power vested in this 2009 law, you have seen the consequences of the Croatian defenders, you have seen how much has been done, how much mortality has been done, you have seen the consequences of these deaths, you have seen that 12 thousand Croatian defenders, and after them and widows. For them, you have prepared one-time cash aid that is limited by social status or bribed by their receipts as well as property and from cars, houses, oraries, all of which are obstacles that cannot achieve what you put into the law and that is one-time cash aid of 1092 kuna. I therefore believe that you should have considered these people and these families who would remain behind Croatian defenders who are safe because of the stress they experienced in the battlefields also experienced malignancies as well as cardiovascular diseases that are evident and which are in a terrible increase. 160 enormous percent of Croatian defenders' mortality clearly shows that you have to do something, that those 142 million kunas that are no longer in the defence ministry's positions have been used for such care and care. That would be terribly commendable. This is how everything in this law is a dead letter on paper. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26643	Thank you very much. Please make your statement on Amendment No. 8 HDZ representatives' clubs that the government does not accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please plead. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 89 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 3 votes were abstentions to the law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on the short payment of certain material rights to public service employees, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 228. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. You may submit amendments until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The final proposal was discussed by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26645	Dear MPs and MPs, you have before you a bill on the short payment of certain material rights to employees in public services with a final draft of the law before I explain the law I would like to remind you of some of the facts that preceded the adoption of this law. As you know, Croatia is in a deep crisis and this deep crisis has triggered a trend which is back five quarters negative. We had negative GDP, on the other hand, we were aware every day that we were losing more jobs, losing jobs, increasing the number of unemployed at the Employment Service, we crossed the number of 350 thousand, that despite the fact that we hired more people in Croatia this year, it was not enough to reduce this negative trend that started in 2008 and beyond, we lost over 200 thousand jobs. When I talk about industrial production, in 2010, it recorded an annual decline of 1.5% in 2011. 1.2% and 5.6% in the first 9 months of 2012. The construction work index was reduced by 15% year-on-year in 2010, and in the first 8 months of 2012. 11%. It is also expected to continue the negative macroeconomic movements and the decline in GDP that we have had the opportunity to see also according to the results of the State Statistics Institute itself. With the 2013 budget aimed at strengthening the economy, it is necessary to implement the fiscal savings measures previously and in 2012, we reduced the spending side, and this year we are expected 10.9 billion interest on 170 billion kuna of public debt. Unfortunately, spending in the country, state spending did not follow trends and did not adapt to the crisis, so in the last 5 years we have dropped exports, we are falling GDP, we are falling investment and the state's consumption has remained at the same level. What is also a characteristic that at that time when negative trends have gone and continued, collective agreements have been signed that have not followed the crisis and the rights that have been negotiated in these collective agreements have been far from the possibilities that the state can finance. It was probably because he wanted to buy false social peace, which was bought through continued borrowing because it was easier to raise a billion kuna for wages than to sit at a table with social partners and in difficult negotiations or to reduce the payment of certain material rights. Even at a time when city collective agreements were signed, which was the end of 2011, when the rights that went far beyond state funding were signed, at the same time with the signing of these rights were further in debt. To maintain the fiscal rule, we said it was one of the foundations of the budget itself, it was necessary to reduce the payment of certain material rights to civil servants and tenants and employees in public services. For this reason, we have opened negotiations with civil servants and tenants and with public services. What we have succeeded with civil servants and tenants within a very relatively short deadline in 5 rounds of negotiations is that it is important that we have a basic collective agreement, that material rights in this basic collective contract be maintained and that, by adding a basic collective contract, we agree that there is no Christmas pay and a regression in 2013 and Christmas in 2012, with better definition of the cost of transport, reducing the basis for jubilee awards, reducing the daily from 170 to 150 kuna. And this was signed by all trade unions representing trade unions that participated in negotiations with civil servants and tenants. Unfortunately, we failed to achieve this with the public service unions and the government was still in effect to cancel the basic collective agreement because of the inability to deal with public services, and it should expire in 20.12. At the same time, while realizing the commitment of both the trade unions and the government that it is necessary to have a basic collective agreement for public services, new negotiations were launched on a new basic collective contract for public services that should have replaced this basic collective agreement in the denunciation and the basis of the Law on Representativeship was established by a new negotiating committee which, under that law, some trade unions that had been excluded from this negotiations for years were given the opportunity to participate in the negotiations, the negotiating committee had 11 members and here, after the talks, was signed yesterday, a new basic collective agreement for public services which contained all the rights that were contained in the old basic collective contract, and the addition in the basic collective agreement, reduced the payment of certain rights as agreed with civil servants and tenants. Unfortunately, as in June, and in these negotiations, we have not come across the understanding and understanding of the situation by four unions joined in the Matrix of the Union. And in these talks, although the government was approaching union positions, there remained an uncompromising position of the Mother Union that it was important that it was important and their condition was that what we gave up for this and for the next year, hypothetically cheat when the situation was better or when the situation in Croatia was better. What was the question of what does this mean? What is better in Croatia? Are we going to say that the gross social product is greater than 2, greater than 3, greater than 5, greater than 10? So the government couldn't agree to this condition for the simple reason that we didn't want to make a commitment to pay for something that we couldn't pay for, and on the other hand, we didn't want to make a commitment to pay for something or make a commitment to a future government to pay for what we agreed on. So we also wanted to break a practice of delayed unionism in a way that made arrangements under the table in secret arrangements in the evening in the Banski Dvora and where the deal was well agreed on, we'll give you a break on this, but you sign with us one day to return here and here with this other favor. In this way, some trade unions have secured themselves better negotiating positions with another government with another negotiating committee, and we wanted to break off the practice. We wanted to agree on a clear, clear table with arguments and to do what we signed and done. And we did it with seven unions. 7 unions signed or initialled a basic collective agreement and were listed yesterday by 6 trade unions, unfortunately the Renaissance Union did not sign even though it initialled a basic collective agreement. The practice that has been tied back to this delayed unionism or the question of trust was that what we agree on in basic collective agreements is once again copied into the border collective agreements, so if we happen to lose those rights in the basic collective agreement, some rights will remain in the border, so while the government is still launching negotiations in the border, we will be in a position to pay for it. Although the trade unions have committed themselves in a basic collective contract for public services that within 30 days we will align the border collective agreements with the basic collective agreement, since part of the union did not sign that these trade unions are clearly and part of the border collective agreements, it is unlikely that these border unions would sign and amend the border collective agreements and what happened in 2001 would happen to us when the famous shoe was agreed where the shoe was agreed in the basic collective agreement and should have been translated into the border collective agreements. And part of the union did it, but part of the union was making humps and just left it in its border collective agreements and there was inequality in the constitution. Some of them were honest, and they got it, and the others didn't say they were dishonest, but they found ways to play that deal, they got something that the others didn't get. So, with the border collective agreements having a Christmas card and a regression, we are following the signing of a basic collective contract in the position that since it exists in the border collective agreements for part of the union will pay Christmases in 2012 and Christmas and regression in 2013. Not wanting the inequality in the system to rule out wanting us all to bear the burden of the crisis equally, wanting the unions that have signed, most of the unions that have signed one or another basic collective contract not to get their membership Christmas and the others to get a Christmas card. You have before you a law that regulates this, so the law that we deny the payment of certain material rights to employees in public services and thus ensures that two basic collective agreements are implemented and that the exercise of that will that was expressed during the negotiations is important, which is that it is important that we all get the same or that we all give up certain material rights equally. On the other hand, the government also agreed to a union proposal that was introduced in addition to a basic collective agreement that in the event that any of the unions receive the payment of these material rights, we must also count on those trade unions that did not participate in the negotiations, but they have the same right as the trade unions that participated in the negotiations that the Government then undertakes to pay off this material right to all, whether they have signed to give up or not. The motive for the adoption of this law is the fact that the material rights of employees in state and public services are financed from identical public and fiscal incomes, which is why we believe that employees in public and public services must be equal in relation to the scope and height of their rights. I would also like to point out that, in the short term, the payment of the Christmas card and the regression of employees in public services who come solely from contractual obligations, and not from the laws and regulations, will result in an appropriate part of the necessary savings in the state budget, which together with transport and savings at the level of jubilee awards is about a billion and a half kuna. It is important for us to point out that this law does not slow down or dispute the freedom of collective bargaining guaranteed by the Constitution. Since we have the opinion of the International Labour Organisation, the Committee of Experts since 1996, but also from 2011 on the example of Greece, where the Committee of Experts stated that in the case of economic reasons, in the event of problems in the realisation of the state budget itself, the Government has the right to intervene in collective agreements and has the right to intervene in salary levels. This intervention shall not be permanent, shall be time-limited and shall focus on those material rights located in each part of the system. This law absolutely follows these rules, so it is limited to a year and affects the material rights that are throughout the system because they are Christmas and regression throughout the system. The Institute of Payments and other contracted material rights and other labour rights agreed by this basic collective agreement shall remain in force and shall be paid in such a way as has been so far. In our view, there is no change in the very system of collective bargaining. We'll sit very soon with the unions around the border collective agreements. The next week will be decided on negotiating committees that determine their representativeness took a little longer, probably because it was the same calculation of whether to be able to sign a basic collective agreement, and then let us stay on the border because there are rights that were in the basic collective agreement. The law is limited action, limited reach, ensuring equality in the system, ensuring stability of the budget, ensuring that those savings we need to make in order to maintain the finances of the state to do so. It is clear that there will be criticism of this law, but when you look at the situation in which the state is located, when you look at the situation that collective agreements did not follow the rhythm of the crisis, that they did not adjust the payment of material rights to the rhythm of the crisis but even increased, and that on the other hand the work in the public and state service is in Croatia at the moment one of the forms of privilege because the wages come in time, because wages are paid on time and it is certainly a job. Many of the people who work in the real sector or those who are now at the employment office would be happy to have such a privilege. And when you have such a privilege, then you need to adapt to the moment we are in, and you need to adapt to those economic indicators that are not good at the moment in Croatia. Of course, the Government, and I hope other social partners agree that at a time of crisis should be covered with as much as we have and that when we talk about the social dialogue itself, social dialogue continues, the Economic and Social Council continues to function and as far as the Economic and Social Council is concerned, it will be formed very quickly under the Law on Representativeness where we will finally see who is all representative in the Economic and Social Council itself. I hope that the future, and the negotiations will continue to run and this government will continue to negotiate with the trade unions here we are now negotiating an agreement on the basis of public wages which is also one of the ways of delayed trade unionism. The agreement signed in 2006 and then in 2009 was a signed add-on to this agreement is an agreement that is constantly delayed. And the unions themselves, part of the union, they said let's do something to make an agreement that's real, which will allow public sector wages and public services to grow when it's time, not to tell our members every year and listen this year they didn't pay. Maybe next year, if we don't postpone it again. So, we are just negotiating with the social partners on the addition of the pay agreement to public services where we will also agree that for this year and next year, given the situation, we will not be able to raise salaries in the state and public sector, and on the other hand we will also be able to adapt this agreement to the conditions in which it is. Both the government and the unions agree that the agreement should remain, that an agreement should remain on when wages will grow in the public sector. But that should be based on real economic indicators. The law allows everyone in the system to equally bear the burden of the crisis and the law implements what we have agreed with the unions. All those additions to the basic collective contract that we agreed on, and on the other hand, the promise that we gave both to civil servants and tenants, but also to people in education in primary, secondary, higher education, we also realize. So, given that we are better in the basic collective agreement, we better regulate certain things for public services such as transport costs, the jubilee prize. We are opening negotiations next week with civil servants and tenants to include that well-negotiated part in their basic collective agreement. So that everyone has the same good and bad sides that the contract itself carries. And we will also return 3579 to the Regulation, which has served as a beating and carrot for a long time, which has served in negotiations, which has been illegally paid for 8 years. It will return to the system via the coefficient system and everyone in the system will now have a guaranteed salary related to their performance results. We're sorry we didn't make it with the school unions, but we were ready in the sixth month when we had to raise the salary by 2.3% then we agreed to also propose to the unions to postpone the salary increase by 2.3% and legalize regulation 3579. However, since we failed to agree we had to raise the wages and to maintain the budget itself and the salaries themselves had to stop paying off the illegal regulation 3579. Once again, it will return to the system, a collective bargaining system for border collective agreements and educational employees will have their salaries secure and will not depend on a regulation that was illegal, or which was paid without having a valid legal basis. So now we have negotiations that I hope will end with success as well as these negotiations with civil servants and tenants and with public services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26646	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We've reported several replicas. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Zeljko Reiner and the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26647	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Well, I have to say, I'm actually appalled that this law came before the Parliament. I was kind of hoping until the last minute that the government would pull him out. It is for the first time in the history of the Croatian state that without a previous opinion of the Economic Social Council, a collective contract is actually suspended. And it's not true that there's no change in collective bargaining. Quite a dramatic change is taking place, because all further negotiations will actually be marked by a single simple message. Either accept what the government is offering you or if we don't, we're going to give the law that we're going to derogate anyway. So this law actually loses its purpose in a way collective bargaining and puts it under one big question. What should also be said is that this law derivates Article 7. The labour law which clearly defined certain things, and I want to remind the same that the crisis in Croatia was the biggest in 2009. That's when GDP fell by 6%. After that, in 2010, when the then government tried to change precisely because of this Labour Act, then it was your party and party leadership that went to sign the petition thunderingly against the amendment of the Labour Act, etc. Therefore, we must also remind the Jelačić Square and everything that has happened. It is clear that this also collapses the fundamental legal principle of the Pacta Sunt Servanda or contracts must be respected because this is why it is not respected, and that is one civilization principle that is centuries old, and this time these contracts are not respected. And I have to say that I am very surprised that this is all done by a government led by a party called the Social Democratic Party because what is done is exactly the opposite of being a social democracy that should represent exactly what and be close to the unions and represent the interests of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26648	Thank you very much. It was a replica of the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament of Željko Reiner. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26649	So I'm sorry that this discussion was from members of the opposition who were in power at the time when agreements and collective negotiations were signed that far exceeded the state's own capabilities, at the time when border collective agreements were signed in 2011 at the same time the finance minister was leaving for new loans so that pensions could be financed and salaries could be financed. Thus, there was a time when it was possible to agree that certain material rights would not be paid off, and then it could be agreed with the trade unions to settle things. As regards Article 7, Article 7 states that a worker has the right when there are two rules or two laws or two novels to apply a favourable rule, that we did not put it into law then any member of the union or any employee, given that there is a border collective agreement in force, would have the right to sue and obtain a Christmas and regression. With this, we don't get into the Labour Act because there are two things that need to be separated. One is that the government has also consulted the International Labour Organisation in the law-making process, so I made it clear what the International Labour Organisation thinks about it. We also did not suspend the possibility of collective bargaining, and as for this issue that we have signed the amendments, that we were against amending the Labour Act an expected attempt is likely to be today a light-motive discussion on this side, so we were opposed in the way it went in the process of amending the Labour Act. And to point out that we just started two days ago changing the Labour Act in the right way, which is... by dialogue between unions and employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26650	Thank you very much, Minister. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I have honestly been shocked by your opening part. You're really talking like we're some kind of messy country. Secret deals, fake borrowing, collective agreements. If you want to make a serious argument, then say that and that collective agreement with those and those provisions then and then. However, the biggest untruth you have said is the Treaty 3, 5, 7 and 9%. So you know who signed it and when? It was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Granic when the Prime Minister was the late Mr Racan, and this was the result of the abolition of all those rights in the agreement with the IMF and not following those major strikes. So that contract is from your time. If he was illegal later, then he was illegal in 2003. Another thing, what do secret deals mean to you? Well, Mr. Minister, are you aware of what you said? If the deal is in the government, if a statement is made to the press, if it's followed by the media, if it's published, then how can it be secret? And the other thing that means false borrowing? How can someone be falsely in charge? I know that you are neither a lawyer nor this, I appreciate your medical knowledge and respect your reach in this profession, but don't take the right to use the terms in some other professions that simply don't lie down. It's just not true. Because 90% of the things you said here aren't true. You know exactly what happened to the public service negotiations, who forced them and how they ended up and who was removed from those negotiations. For honesty. ... Well, then, but you also have a clause that's embedded there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But the problem is somewhere else, I'll talk about it in an individual debate. I'm just asking you, Mr. Minister, for the state's dignity, because of the government you're sitting in, don't use such expressions because they simply can't survive. No secret negotiations, no false borrowing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26652	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26653	When we talk about false borrowing, then we're talking about borrowing the signatures of basic collective agreements and the signatures of border collective agreements where we're in charge of something that we know might come back, maybe someone won't come back. When we talk about illegal agreements, look at the collective agreement on primary education signed by the minister who was in your government. All other border collective agreements do not have one clause that this branch collective contract has where you clearly agreed to take away the government's original rule, which is that wages are regulated through coefficients. Article 10 of the Treaty states that the coefficients in primary education cannot be changed during the term of the collective contract. That's how you automatically took the government's right to deal with the pay issue... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26654	Your Honor, be patient, you'll get 10 minutes. You'll have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26655	Therefore, these are secret arrangements where something was put inside, so it was agreed that the government should be deprived of its primal right. That's one thing. On the other hand, as regards 3, 5, 7, 9 2003, a regulation was adopted, a regulation was strengthened in 2004, and then that regulation was either to be translated into laws itself or to be re-imposed. Yes, but neither while you were a minister nor after that, no one has ever renewed because the regulation lasts a year as far as I know. Therefore, no one renewed the regulation and continued to pay off without the regulation being renewed. It would be fair if the regulation had been renewed. And when we talk about secret deals, ask the unions who would leave with one opinion, and some would stay and then get delayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26656	Thank you very much, Minister. There'll be more chances. Next replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26657	Thank you very much. Well, my predecessors said, one is appalled, the other is relieved, so I have to admit, I'm a little surprised at that, and what did you expect more? After a year of this kind of work, and what they've shown, I don't know what you're surprised at? After all, the Prime Minister said the state of emergency and what you are now doing with these changes. This is suitable for some totalitarian systems, and this looks more like some of the moves some of the knaves they're making. You have the right to collective bargaining but you will only negotiate what you receive in writing, possibly what is offered. This is really shameless and another word from the Social Democratic Government. Plan 21. The government program doesn't mention any of these moves anywhere, but you're doing it neatly, that's fine by you, socially democratically sensitive. Your social dialogue with the unions continues. With what? If by law you disable them all, continuing social dialogue is simply impossible. And finally, you mentioned somewhere at the beginning, the government won't take on obligations for the next government, but there aren't long we've had two such examples where the government just moved to be executed in 2015, the Law on the Police, the Law on the Pay of Judges, and now you're calling for some principle, honesty, you won't leave it behind for others, and there's no long two such laws have been here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26658	Thank you, Your Honor, and your reply to the replica, Minister Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26659	The Honorable representative was just talking about a certain unionism, so the law where we delayed the severances in that section of severance for officers delayed trade unionism. She signed something that was clear that it couldn't be paid off and it was clear that no one could pay off and it was my concern to move on to another. As for the social dialogue itself, the social dialogue continues, so we will refer to the Parliament in a session in January of the Minimum Payment Act reached between the social partners. We started discussing amendments to the labour law in a way that needs to be done. The Economic Social Council is functioning, social dialogue and in public enterprises is in place. Therefore, these do not derivate any social bargaining because the law restricted only to two material rights and is limited to time. It is therefore in line with both the International Conventions and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26660	Thank you very much. If you'd said... As long as it's the way it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Until circumstances change, we will now go to changed circumstances. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take part and submit a report? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. The first are representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament and the first club is the Croatian Labour Club and the respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26661	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, here at the beginning in the opening part of the minister gave us a nice lecture that was nice to listen to, but the truth is quite different somewhere. I will start with two quotes from the Government of the Republic of Croatia Programme, which are on the 32nd or 33rd page of the Government Programme for the 2011-2015 period, which was also the Kukuriku Coalition Programme and said in those quotations: "Croatia needs a socially responsible society in which the worker is not a slave and whose work and solidarity are high on the social value scale". Another quote: "Working participation and co-decision as a form of partnership of labour and capital guarantees the fairness of mutual decisions of social dialogue, safety of work and motivation for work." That's what the government programme says, and that's what this Kukuriku coalition said when and a part of the voters decided to give them a vote. And now we're asking ourselves, are we building a socially responsible society with this law? Croatian Labourists claim not to. Do we guarantee the fairness of mutual decisions, social dialogue, safety of work and motivation? No, I don't. By this law we take the rights of workers and abolish those rights. Are we raising our motivation to work with this law? No, because no one who is violently deprived of something can be motivated by a right to work. Do the workers have anything more good to hope for than this government? After this, I don't think so. What's going on with this law? The government is practically committing violence against the freedom of collective bargaining guaranteed by the International Labour Conventions. This law violently lays down the rights of workers contracted in the Collective Treaty. It's one area where we talk about the consequences of the law now on existing collective agreements. But the basic question is which message does the Government of the Republic of Croatia send to employers with this law? The message should read like this, we don't need collective agreements and you put them out of force if you want to reduce workers' rights because here's how we do it. You don't need unions to ignore them because this is how we do it. What you need is a social dialogue with the unions just wasting your time with them. Set up the rights of the workers as you think best, the workers are here to work and keep quiet because if you have any rebellion, take them even more if you have something to take. After all, workers are also less and less of a social state, and thanks to the so-called. The social democratic laws this government is offering us. If a worker and raises his head then he is told there are over 350 thousand unemployed who are willing to work for crumbs because they have lost everything practically, lost happiness and harmony in the family, lost their dignity, and something else can be found in containers. They don't really have any hope for the future. This government is basically just playing social dialogue because it's not really there. There's no real, honest social conversation with social partners. There's practically nothing in there but blackmail. It all comes down to what you take or leave. We can talk, but it's gonna be the way we thought it would be. Is that social dialogue? I'm sure he didn't. Social dialogue takes a lot more, without him in this country we won't get out of the crisis. This has also shown us history that only social dialogue, only by agreement with the social partners, can successfully overcome certain crises. Why do I say that? So this government didn't even find it appropriate to put it at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council to discuss it with social partners, hear other opinions, see if it can cause any other consequences and what consequences might practically happen. What will happen when it comes to the Budget Law and when that picture that I was talking about is kind of inert when employers start acting to reduce workers' rights is what the government can do. How much damage can a strike wave cause? How much will wages in the economy be reduced and certain material rights and, based on that, the purchasing power of citizens? How much further will we get into poverty? Will that rate of 20% of the poor in Croatia continue to deepen? How much less will it be through taxes and taxes if this thinking we're talking about is realized? Because collective agreements don't need, don't need social dialogue, and then go ahead, you employers are on the move. That practically doesn't interest this government. On stage is the destruction of a union that has practically begun to amend the Law on the criteria of participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective agreements that have been violently abolished I am again speaking articles and the Labour Act of Articles 253 and 254 if at 718 thousand signatures are given both by the signatures and by the prime minister and by a large number of people from this coalition. The only successful measures this government has taken so far are by reducing the rights and burden on citizens. The scene is practically accompanied by neoliberal capitalism, which this government is trying very hard to please. Workers can expect further reductions in the right to amend the Labour Act that this government advocates. The minister here indicated the negotiations would be but what kind of negotiations would be. Negotiations will be because the government has already drawn plans. Removing a paid break for a half an hour, it will no longer be paid means a lower salary if the hour or less wage for the day's work effect is to be reduced. Extending redistribution of working hours. It needs to be longer and needs workers as much as possible to make as much use of it as possible if it goes in favour of employers. Cheaper layoffs, less notice and less severance. Inability to work or vacation to count on a cancellation period. The establishment of a working relationship for a certain period of time without giving reasons for such work. That's what this government has drawn for itself, and that's what this government is going to start negotiations with the unions next year. The government has set up the gauges, they'll talk to the unions, and then they'll propose and pass the law. In whose interest? To what benefit? Certainly not in the interest of workers, but in the interest of neoliberal capitalism it certainly is. That's what the workers can expect from this social democratic government, and I'm saying there's certainly nothing good about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26662	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have one replica that is the replica of respected representatives of Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Tušak, it's clear to me that you don't have to be satisfied with the situation because of the growing number of unemployed, you don't have to be satisfied with the economic situation, and I understand that. But I can't understand that you can say that this government is not social, or what you quoted from our program, that it's contrary to our efforts. Well, exactly the opposite because this government is showing responsibility.../The speaker has been excluded./... he did not commit himself to further buying social peace but rather doing what he had to do. It can be sought when it is available, however, it is irresponsible that collective agreements were signed in June 2011. It's an irresponsible government. This way of doing things shows that we are both social and responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26664	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26665	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Members, when we talk about social dialogue, when we talk about collective agreements, then clearly it should be the subject of bipartite conversation between the social partners. It can sometimes also be difficult, it can sometimes be exhausting, it can sometimes be served with arguments and non-arguments, it can sometimes cause up to certain strikes and to certain consequences but it is essentially social dialogue. It is also a matter of responsibility when we talk about social democracy and when we talk about the interests of workers. That means respect and the other side. This law does not respect the other side at all, but it does so without prejudice to this law, suspend certain rights under the collective agreement, suspend certain rights under collective agreements, and these are the things I was talking about when we say that such an example will be encouraged and certain employers in an economy that will go in this direction to reduce workers' rights, and the consequences of such reduction of workers' rights will only be seen in the future and the effects that this will lead to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26666	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going forward with the debates by the representatives' clubs. Now it's the club of IDS representatives and the respected representative Damir Cain. He is not in the Hall of the Croatian Parliament, he loses the right to debate on this subject. Next is the club of HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivan Šuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26667	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. At the beginning of this debate, I would ask all of us in this crowded hall where social dialogue went, and at least somewhere he sings where a man went, because social dialogue and man are closely connected. But at times when we have 350 thousand unemployed, when we have burdened the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with new tax duties, when we have a strong price increase, when we have all the poor macroeconomic indicators, when the electricity went 20% to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the gas 37%, and my Goricans, whom I now congratulate both Turopolji and Turopoljs, the day of the city, on the day of their city, the price of heating for those who are heating up in 6000 and some collective apartments for 38.5%, we get one law that the minister accuses of all are guilty before them. All something secret, all something under the table, all of it feels like... fine tours are visiting there in this hall, there's some bits, someone... underneath your feet is dragging behind your back, but the fact is quite different. So the economic crisis began at the end of 2008, in 2009 was in full voltage, in 2010, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a budget rebalance in 4 months 2009 where it reduced wages and pensions by 6%. In 2009, at the 8th month, there was an increase in those taxes because it could not intervene on the expenditure side, aware of the fact that in 2010 if we want to do something with the expenditure side we have to solve the problem of collective agreements. And the government proposes what is most democratic, in the spirit of best social dialogue, proposes to amend the Labour Act that will only allow for new collective bargaining, nothing else. Therefore, no rights are abolished, but only that provision in the Labour Act which says that the basic contracts concluded at some times when economic well-being in the Republic of Croatia has ceased to apply and as part of the new economic circumstances of the crisis is moving into new collective bargaining. And that's when the unions started their legitimate action, no one slowed them down. But the funniest thing today, looking from this position, was to run the prime minister and his colleagues and colleagues to Jelacic's salary to sign that they support the referendum. Now look at how one autograph used to cost an unthinking sum. For a year now, this government has been dealing with how to solve the problem that should then be solved and for which someone else would bear the responsibilities of political... and ultimately sanctions in the elections. But no, that was violent at the time, so this was not supported, and the law that is unilaterally said without any agreement that you will not give someone a Christmas card, that you will not give a regress and that you will not give it next year is declared extremely democratic. It's the highlight of democracy, it's the highlight of social dialogue. No, this is where social dialogue dies. We can talk now whatever we want, realize the facts of the budget situation. And look, the minister says yesterday we're going to pay the educators for that, and at the same time in the draft budget, it says that on the expenditure side about the salary, that position will be reduced by a billion and 700 million kuna. And how you're going to reduce those billions and 700, and you're planning an increase in funding next year. I think this law shows all the inconsistency and all the ignorance and bad economic policy of this government. You can call yourself as much as you want on these contracts, this, this one, that one you signed. However, Mr. Minister, the biggest crime that happened to you in 2010 when you were greedyly flying to collect some political point, you did not want to accept the real situation, which is that for certain things there was simply no money in the budget. And don't tell me someone's in charge. And you're in charge this year. You'll be in charge of over 10 billion kunas. Next year 11 billion kunas to cover the expenditures of the state budget. And if it continues during your term of office according to projections, the Croats will be more in charge at the end of the four-year term somewhere around 45 billion, financing only your failed policy is not able to implement structural reforms and thus solve the problem of the expenditure side of the budget. And it's true and it's a fact that you can't escape from. And you can say whatever you want. The second thing, if you already come to this High House, then you should know who pays the wages. Payments are paid by the restoring ministries. Resort ministries, which you know very well why you and I are here to publicly tell you the health unions agreed to this reduction, because you told them you wouldn't touch their border collective contract. And you know exactly what that border collective contract says. You also know well what it says in that provision about, I think you medics call it preparedness and way of paying it and how much it's going to cost you. So you accepted that. That's why Babic signed it quickly the way he signed it all together. But this is about educators and it's about nurses. And we can now have an understanding of budget problems, we can have this kind of understanding. But we don't understand that laws break a union scene, we don't understand that they take the rights of employees without anyone asking them. And we can't understand that someone here is giving us a 35-minute lesson about a law that's going to go down in history about someone getting laid without any mercy, with nothing, practically through three articles. We just come to the Croatian Parliament and we say you won't get it anymore. That's something Mr. Minister, which is unforgivable, that's something we can't agree on. After all, Plan 21 doesn't say this. When it came to plan 21, then there were Christmases and regressions and a gift for children. These three, five, seven and nine percent colleagues and colleagues for you both on the left and on the middle and on the right which you do not know. In 2001, the coalition government signed those 3, 5, 7 and 9% following those large protests by the educators after their salaries were cut 30, 40% after an agreement with the IMF. To calm them down, they received it as an addition to loyalty in the ministry, and it was paid in 2002, 2003, and so it continued. And Minister Mrsic comes to the Parliament and says something someone was illegally paying off. Unbelievable! Then why didn't you stop paying for it if something was illegal? If something is illegal, then you don't need any act, so why do you promise to pay for it if you claim it's illegal. Don't jump into your own mouth. I've said the terminology legal and the economics are very strange and they should be used well, and not just coming here, something is illegal, but I promised them yesterday we'd pay them. Then the government needs to bring in a new regulation. But the government can't bring in a new regulation because you don't have any money in your budget because you've indicated in your budget that you have a billion and 700 tasks to reduce next year's salary. Well, you can't do what you're doing to send us laws into a budget that you don't have insurance funds for. Why don't you just jump up and make a deal and give us the facts here? Because I repeat, that hundred-metre race with the extensions to sign the referendum is something that has become our nightmare, a nightmare, and that's a message to all Croatian citizens that the Kukuriku coalition is sticking to the deal. Because when they weren't on the government, they promised them everything, and then as soon as they came to power, let's cut, hit and bang the rights. However, colleagues and colleagues, we can, we certainly won't vote for it. You can vote for taking people's regress and Christmas Eve. After all, you took away their children's gift in 2000, so they didn't fail. However, the problem of the expenditure side of the budget is not cutting rights but structural reforms. And when you realize that, when you have the courage to implement structural reforms, then you won't have any problems with the expenditure side. And you can tell us anyway. We lost the election because apparently people thought we weren't doing well. We lost the election, but what does that mean? That you'll move on. Well, it can't go like that. That's why you didn't get the trust. Teachers, teachers didn't vote for you to take away their Christmas card and regress. If you had told them that you would have taken their Christmas card and regress, they would not have gone to the polls but to vote for you. And that's something you have to face, you can't get away from. It was only a matter of time before you would have to come to the Croatian Parliament with a law like this or similar. It was only a matter of time before you had to say it. But I repeat, without structural reforms, there is no reduction in expenditure. And I repeat, that proposal to amend the Labour Act was extremely democratic and on the verge of social dialogue. Therefore, it was only proposed to create preconditions for new collective bargaining. It's hard to defend indefensible. And I'll be done. Where did the social dialogue go? And Bare will still sing "Where's the missing man?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26668	Thank you, Your Honor. We've reported several replicas. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26669	Thank you very much. You started with a fellow Shuker, you started and ended up with Barrett, so where did the man go? So now I'm wondering, where did the man who wrote this go? Education and science are key assumptions for the development of the economy and society as a whole. Its strategic definition towards pre-school, primary and secondary education will be achieved by the following basic measures – improving the social and material position of teachers, etc. Where did this man go? The minister mentioned that he had an indication of the International Labour Organisation, and I would like to see it because for justifiable reasons we have no reason to trust. Prove it, show it. After all, why isn't it an integral part of this, so we could possibly believe it. Equality with the real sector, the public sector with the real sector, why not vice versa? Let's pull the real sector towards the public. And in the end, if we put ourselves in, if we do a little bit of an analysis that you are now the owner of a real-estate company, hire a director who manages that part of the real sector and he has the results of what this government has today that you would do to him? And in the end, what apparently everybody closes their eyes but surely it's true. I know most of you know it's just a problem to admit it to yourself. The reduction of public sector rights will mean nothing more than an additional reduction of real sector rights. And it will go with the effect of dominos. By stressing that this move that you've made, this was really just done in the countries of the DDR, such a restriction of rights. Bulgaria, Romania and things like that. Well, after all, the former Yugoslavia didn't have collective agreements, but it was better than working rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26670	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26671	Yes, colleague Novak, it's going to come out of this rhetoric, and you'll see later on in these replicas that probably one of the HDZ's planted the minister's program and they didn't read it, and now that's the case. And with this, it's all HDZ's fault. But it'll take a moment until the Enlighteners get 1250 kuna. 1250 kuna before Christmas means a terrible lot to them. But also those 1250 kunas that they would spend buying themselves and their children in a certain way have affected GDP growth. And what all economic analysts say, we can politically argue here, the guilty one in the end to the dear God and the Croatian citizens doesn't mean anything that we are fighting here, they live the way they live, which is that it's much worse now than a year ago. And that's a fact you can't escape from. And I'm saying, the left and right sides can be fired one way or the other, but this should have been agreed on, but I repeat, without structural reforms, there is no reduction in the expenditure side. These structural reforms will automatically lead without tax hikes to an increase in the revenue side. We didn't have the strength for certain structural reforms, I said it several times in this House, and that's why in the 8th month 2010, in fact, we had to introduce that crisis tax and increase VAT because we failed to reduce the expenditure side. If it wasn't a good school for you, I don't know what school you'd be anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26672	It was an answer to the replica of the respected representative Ivan Shuker. Now a new replica and respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26673	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Shuker, I'm replicating you to one part at the very beginning of the presentation, but you've already used this today to discuss amendments to the Law on Defences, so you're crying over your fellow citizens in Velika Gorica, and you're talking about the government's congratulations that from today on the addition of heating and in Velika Gorica 38%. And I will take the opportunity to tell the citizens of Velika Gorica that it is actually your late congratulatory because at a time when you could and had to be responsible as Government you had an opportunity not at once but gradually to raise the price of heating everyone knew that one day you would have to do it. You didn't have the guts. Now you're blaming us for the fact that the price of heating has gone up in six cities. And have you wondered what it's like in other cities and how in other cities citizens have been paying more heating prices for years? That didn't occur to you. And when you say that there's a year after the election, we've been constantly calling for the former government, and I beg your pardon, from whom have we taken over the leadership of the state? From Martians? From whom, aliens? Well, I guess we took over from HDZ. And I'll just remind you that until the last day you're the government and the MPs in this House all that wasn't done was attributeing to the former late Prime Minister Racan and his government, by the end of 2011, the late Racan was your fault. It won't be our former government's fault for so long, but I think it's our duty to remind our citizens who, what kind of party, has run the country for many years before we came to power. And it's worth repeating.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26674	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26675	Comrade Sobol, thank you so much for the day of St. Lucius, which I can once again explain to my fellow citizens how consistent SDP is. So, when three years ago, in 2009, the price of heating was raised in Velika Gorica then SDP and HNS organised mass protests of citizens, at the head of these protests was one former police officer and a police officer in Velika Gorica but very interesting that in local elections the policeman-milk was on the SDP list, these are independent citizens. So when the price of heating was raised then the SDP said it shouldn't be done, and today when the SDP raises the price of heating, it's HDZ's fault again. Well, it's HDZ's fault. But the citizens know who offered them Plan 21 where he said the wages would grow and they wouldn't fall. And a series of other things. And fellow Sobol, if you noticed, I am only one today, with all due respect to the late former Prime Minister, Mr. Racan, mentioned only one segment and this is a contract because without him, I simply couldn't have mentioned him in my speech of three, five, seven, nine, I wouldn't have mentioned it. So I was talking about the attitudes of my club, so I was only talking about how I can help you get out of this situation, that's what everyone in Croatia is telling you, you don't listen and you end up on 350 unemployed and then someone else is to blame, and as far as the collective agreements are concerned, and I think the educators know best what these collective agreements are like. However, very interestingly, while we were negotiating, these negotiations were fellow Mrsic far away... and far sharper because these unions have far more attacked some HDZ ministers than they attack you today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see that you're very comfortable today and you're having a nice conversation with an exception of one union boy, so you've obviously reached some sort of agreement that someone's going to pay tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26676	It's always been a rule, everything according to the merits. Third replica, Honored Representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26677	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Shucker, I've been listening very carefully to your presentation on behalf of the Club and I've been talking about not thinking about Christmases, but I deeply believe that this time of holiday, peace, community, Christmas and regression would have cost me about 125 million kunas, and all of them would have been through these holidays and spending and buying and a 25% VAT return to the state register, so I'm asking you, you didn't say much about that, to explain it to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26678	Yes, a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26679	You see, my colleague Babic, this argument of this Law has come up with something very strange, which I have never seen honestly speaking in my long-standing parliamentary and ministerial practice of writing and saying, "The budget, but it will affect the achievement of certain savings. Everything is said in plus and minus funds," and it is said of the necessary funds. ... The funds are therefore necessary or not necessary, but... [[Speaker not enabled...]] but for 250 public service employees if you multiply it by 1250, it's about 270 and something million. [[/The speaker doesn't understand, you can't hear.]] 125 million from those 100 grand that didn't sign the collective agreement, but it's certain these people won't be able to afford some things for Christmas they've afforded. I said, 2000 is even taking their gift for children, and this is just a message to those people not to sit on stories about some kind of plans 21 or I don't know what it is because it's obviously an empty story that leads them to not getting anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26680	You're telling the microphone to go to the record because you're turning around the microphone. What do you want? You want for Mr. Shucker by rotating the microphone. It was for me to go to the record. It's important to me. Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26681	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you said in your statement that the rights of an enlightener are being circled by this law. Not by this law, they've been broken by this government a long time ago. They were violated at the time when the salary of the educator was cut, and Minister Jovanovic blamed the accountants. Imagine, as if these people miscalculated the salary to the educators. Not that you've put the ministers of this law down to the bottom of an educator but that people don't trust you anymore. And they don't believe you because they know that in 2003, and I was part of it, they had to sue their own state, their own ministry to make up for all those Christmases, all those sins that you stayed in debt in the four years of that term. That's what they're afraid of, because they say it's the same minister of finance who then abolished the educators of all rights. I'm just curious, you were talking today about the heat collection, and I'm going to tell you that it's also about educators, and today they're going to pick up in Sisak for four major schools and you didn't provide anything for the decentralised functions of the minister. In a month people won't have anything to warm up with, but that's why we've secured the government's amendment to this budget of 23 million kuna. You raised your colleagues and colleagues' hands for what they did in Varazdin County and in Koprivnica-križevka pay back the debts of the public private partnership, I know why. In order not to have children and educators on the road, we have made it very easy to make a decision that we will spend in schools but have not provided for it. That's why we've secured 23 million. And for the basic rights of those 500, 400 kuna or for the 1250 kuna to the people who would return it to the state budget, we can't guarantee it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26682	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26683	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You see, colleagues of Roksandić, it's strange to me that when I talk about enlightenment and when we look at the budget from the education that someone in this Assembly in particular people who are involved in education can say that there's something positive about it. What was once used in socialism as a term of simple and expanded reproduction, according to the budget of the Ministry of Education will not be free or expanded reproduction, but there will be no money for a naked existence, because if you look at the position of material costs, if the prices of heating and electricity prices are up, and you are now, hours of the night, you can't have school without light. So the price for electricity will be at least 20% higher, you can't cut it. That clearly says what kind of budget this is. On the other hand, all investments have dropped. I will remember my Velika Gorica again, the school in Novi Čič for a year only the construction site is being held, and the school as much as could have been finished half a year ago, but also when you look at the position of investment in the Ministry of Education, then there is no school, and when you see what conditions at the school in Vukovina go to, then it would be quite clear to you, therefore I do not understand that colleagues on the other hand who are from the educational professions can argue that in the position of the education budget provided funds and what these funds are for the Varazdinska and Karlovak County normally need people. But this makes it clear to you that as far as public-private partnerships are concerned, you have to be careful who you go into partnership with especially in private.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26684	And the last replica and respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26685	Thank you very much. I called in a replica to say that I agree with something you said on the first... You said we didn't promise in the election to end the Christmases and the regressions, right, I agree with you, we didn't. But we promised that we would get the country out of the crisis that you brought her into, that we would no longer owe the country as much as you owed 5 billion more every year... that we were in debt as you were in debt, we could give not one Christmas card but 10 Christmas cards each and 10 regresses, but we didn't want it because... responsiblely. And that's why we didn't cancel this Christmas party. That's why you did it. You have abolished these Christmases with your irresponsible behavior, and you have forced us to act responsibly as responsible authorities. You've abolished them, not us with your irresponsible behavior before. You say, well, you didn't do well, so you lost the election, so you're forgiven. No, unfortunately, you didn't lose the election because you did a bad job bringing the country into a crisis like this, but because of thieving, stealing, Sanader, Fimi Media, that's why you lost the election. But because of what you've brought the country into this crisis, you have to pay the price. And to know if it were fair for 18 years you've been destroying this country economically, it would be fair if you were now 18 years of squatting in opposition, then it would only be justice that you deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26686	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26687	I've never hit a fellow Jelusic in this House under my belt, so I won't do it now, but I'll just tell you Excelsior, Lenac, Fimi Media is a little baby for it. And the other thing is I'm glad you're laughing, and the other thing is I guess somebody's going to ask you a question about what happened to INA in 2002, you'll see very interestingly. But they were well-lived and seen. As for the economy of counterpart Jelusic, second and third quarter 2011 positive, 4th quarter at zero. So you've inherited positive trends. What do we have now? By 8 months you assured us that we would have an economic growth of 0.8% then once overnight it would be gone. Now he's saying it's going to be 1.8% growth. He'll be gone and there'll be trouble again next year. And I repeat from what you hit low under the belt, but it's obviously style, I was once a athlete, so I never hit under the belt what I say argued. I see my colleague Mrsic is smiling a little bit there but usually people laugh so sourly when it's hard for them I understand it completely because this union story is just the beginning, but I repeat, my colleague Jelusic, it would be much better for us all to understand that without structural reforms, there is no solution to the problem. And we can hit each other under the belt here as much as we want, but that's not my style.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26688	Everything was fine except for the sequence was incomplete. And now the Minister of Labour and Pension System on behalf of the Government of Proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26689	To paraphrase Barrett's "Where's the Man Gone"? And someone can disappear abroad, someone in prison, they can disappear a man, and like this, they can die, they can go into a foreign world, a man can disappear anyway. But let's let the people get to the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26690	A man can disappear when a person remains, Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26691	That's right. So when we talk about the real sector, the real sector has long gone since Christmas Day, there is no 0.5 per year of work, there is no jubilee prize, there is a salary, and he is happy to have a salary. There's no safe place he can get fired tomorrow, his company can go bankrupt. In the public sector, wages arrive on time, wages are paid on time, the job is secure. When we talk about plan 21, it says that we'll figure things out and we'll do it. They'll go up pay but at the time the gross domestic product is more than 2%. We have also signed this with the public service unions and with the unions of civil servants and deputies, and to this end, as GDP grows, we need some changes and waivers from the payment of certain material rights. Social dialogue is still present, perhaps in a different way. It is interesting when the former finance minister, with respect for his expertise, discusses at the expense of a unionist and represents trade union positions which are completely legitimately right and changes and understands when he is in some function in which he can be appointed. Clearly, in this conversation with the unions, we went with a partnership relationship and said, gentlemen, we have what we have, we don't have the means, we don't have the opportunity to pay for these material rights, let's sit down what we can do. And in the negotiations we said the first position of the government was that we would give up payment of 0.5 per year of work, and that was the first position of the government, but the unions were aware that it was important to make certain savings and we therefore agreed to stay 0.5 per year of work internship but that we would save that necessary because money did not have the point of gentlemen having no money. We can't pay off something that isn't there, we can't be in debt and even more burdensome and that poor country balance is 170 billion kuna, and when we say I may not be an economic expert, but I have healthy eyes and I can read some things and it says "the deterioration of macroeconomic conditions supported by negative movements in the international environment has had a significant impact on lower budget filling and on increasing certain expenditure criteria, primarily the expenditure on interest, due to the increase in foreign financial markets from 2009 to 2012, increased by 2.7 billion kuna, and in 2013, their additional increase is expected by 1.6 billion kuna. Under these circumstances, the deficit in the state budget increased from €2.5 billion in 2008 to €10 billion in 2012. At the same time, public debt rose from 29.3% of GDP in 2008 to 52.9% of GDP in 2012. That's the situation we're in right now. So I think it's clear to everyone that there's no money and that we can borrow and pay what we have, that the salaries are safe and the wages should be paid. Structural reforms, you've had six years to implement structural reforms. Why didn't you spend it, we weren't your distractions, we were a minority, we didn't have a hand. So, you've had six years, you've had most, you've implemented laws, you've been able to implement all the structural reforms that you could and whatever you wanted to do, and you haven't. And we will implement structural reforms because it is our only chance of growing GDP, to cross that 2% and raise wages in the public and state sectors. When we talk about social dialogue, you forget that in 2010, you had the same law in preparation, the exact same thing, you just didn't dare give it to the Parliament. And at the same time, instead of solving the problem and not burdening us with new debts, new debts, you signed a basic collective agreement with tasks that cross opportunities and then 2010, let alone this year. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26692	Comrade Shuker, don't throw it away. Comrade Shuker, you have the possibility of replicating but don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26693	So the social dialogue is in place, we'll talk to the unions, and when we talk about the unions against this, see how many unions have signed the basic collective for civil servants and public services. Therefore, we with this law ensure equality in the system and ensure that all those who have signed the basic collective agreement to ensure that what we have signed is implemented. Those who did not sign have their reasons why they did not sign it, have legitimate rights and opportunities to challenge it. No one's defending it, but it's absolutely certain what's only clear gentlemen, there's no money. And when we talk about giving up then we give up something that isn't there, and it should have been said a long time ago, and long ago in collective agreements, we would have built that possibility to adapt to the crisis and adapt to the very conditions of the crisis. And let me just say that this law that is before you so that colleagues, there is no Mr. MPs, but I hope they will hear this, says it's in the DDR, in Romania, Bulgaria, that formerly socialism, Yugoslavia, no, so just to show you or to read it to you maybe even better. When certain things are said, it might be wise to see who passed these laws and in which countries this law was applied in the same situation of the crisis, lack of funds in the budget, inability to pay. In these countries, it was not a matter of Christmas and regression, but rather a reduction of wages and a significant reduction of wages. We are not talking about wage cuts, we are talking about giving up certain material rights for a certain period, and all these material rights are still contained in the basic collective contract, and when the situation in Croatia is corrected, then we will pay them off. We didn't cancel them in a basic collective contract, they're there. So nothing was denied to anyone, we only agreed that we couldn't because we didn't have the money, that we couldn't pay it, and let's say Denmark denied the nurses 10 or 15% of the salary on two occasions. The International Labour Organization said it's okay. Another country that's probably not a DDR is Canada that did the same with teachers' salaries. The third and fourth countries did so in 2011 in the public sector, cut salaries by 30%, which are Greece and Spain. Therefore, no DDR, no Bulgarian, no Romania, so the countries of which we will be part of the European Union, so we will be 1.7 in the European Union, so I pray that we have at least a rise in these parliaments that have adopted these same laws at the time of the crisis, and what we are doing now is that we do not come to a stage where Greece and Spain are, that we do not come to a crisis that would lead to these problems that we have there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26694	Thank you very much. We have five replicas of the minister. The first one is Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26695	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, you say social dialogue goes further and we continue to conduct social dialogue. No, Minister, you don't have social dialogue, it's a false social dialogue. You practically blackmailed the unions, and blackmail wasn't a social dialogue. This law introduces one rule to enter and abolish certain rights of collective agreements. This law was not on the Economic Social Council. The Economic Social Council is the same place where social dialogue should be conducted. There are social partners on the Economic Social Council. Right? Why isn't this law discussed on the Economic Social Council? Is that social dialogue? No, Minister. It's not social dialogue. That's what I'm saying again. You're talking nice, but you're doing something else. And why collective agreements if we introduce rules and then the future if we don't like something in collective agreements, we'll change this law. Then we don't need collective agreements. Then let's regulate everything with the laws. You said structural reforms. When? It's been a year, nothing's done. When will this structural reform take place? That's the point of the minister. Get into those structural reforms already once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26696	Next line, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26697	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I have no intention of doing a lot of replicating what you said. I'd just like to say that I'm not representing anyone's position here, or any union man, but I'm simply representing principles. But, Mr. Minister, when you said you didn't do any reform. I am the only Croatian minister to receive a World Bank top ten reformer award and entered in the book. And in 2008, I won that award on Wall Street. And you also made certain macroeconomic indicators from 2008, so the year before the crisis when you saw that the budget was practically at the balance of 2.8 billion kuna. And if the crisis hadn't happened in 2009 we would have had a surplus. Well, I'd like to ask you for some respect. You can hit as politically as you want, but it would be good if you continued certain measures of economic recovery you probably wouldn't have had the situation you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26698	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26699	Well, what was in 2008 was in 2008 and unfortunately since then you've had four years to make structural reforms and continue in that good direction. Lithuania, Latvia, the Baltic countries have made reforms at the time, and these reforms are now bearing fruit. They have the growth that we have at this point and perhaps for some time is unattainable. Why didn't you make other reforms then, and we remember those persuasions of what a crisis. Our crisis won't catch up. Therefore, then it should have started, when it was good, when there was money in the budget then structural reforms had to be made. Lithuania, Latvia, Latvia today have growth rates that are extremely large, and that is because they have made changes that are not. We're sorry, personally, and all of us for not doing it back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26700	Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26701	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you said in your present statement that the real sector is not paying off Christmas Day. That's not true. They pay the Christmas card, not all maybe, not 100%, but one large number pays. They pay because they appreciate their workers, they know they deserve it, they have their own contracts with them and they do it. They don't resort to laws the way you resorted to what may be unmarked in history. I don't remember anyone just passing the law and eliminating all union central, activity, everything you've been doing for the past few months. You sit there all the time, negotiate. So why all these conversations and meetings when you can by law. You could have done that in nine months. Nothing would change. For what? Some unions won't listen. They're right. They think it's their legitimate form of fighting for their rights. Why are enlighteners protesting several times already, why are they angry? Well, they're right. They have less money than they had. You say okay, you can protest but we'll take it from you. And it's legitimate in this way. What will this produce in the future? That's what we'll see. You talk all the time it's been bad before. Someone paid for that price. He paid the HDZ. But what you did well is a question, it interests the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. How to live better with you, they gave you confidence. But they don't see it. In a year, only 35,000 new unemployed today, in a year. And you said no one had solved unemployment so far, I'll handle it. Well, if that's some result, then that unemployment is clearly solved, and I'm saying it's not. Croatian citizens too today live in fear because they are constantly threatened from the top of the government. But they're not afraid of the government or the ministers. They're afraid of their future, and they're afraid of existence. Not even yourself, these older generations than their younger ones coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26702	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica by Minister Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26703	Well, I, I'm sorry you don't see any facts, and the fact is that Croatia has signed two basic collective agreements for civil servants and tenants and for public services. Two basic documents that regulate the rights of the state public sector. And our goal was to sign those contracts, and we signed those contracts. And in those contracts, I don't know how I could prove it to you, but read in those contracts it says that Christmas Eve, the regression, the jubilee awards, it all stands the way it was before. And in addition to the basic collective agreement we said at the moment when the crisis was supposed to do that in the last six years to negotiate it with the unions, not to buy false peace with additional borrowings. That's what we're supposed to do, what we just did. And this law is only to be implemented, so to implement it uniquely throughout the system because in the border collective agreements when your ministers negotiated, they allowed the provisions of the basic collective agreement to be transposed inside but allowed to be laid down by a provision devoting the fundamental right of the government. It's an anti-constitutional collective contract. In this primary school, it is clearly said that the government has no right to change the coefficients in primary education while the collective agreement is in force. You took the government's basic right, and that's what your ministers signed. And when we talk about the unemployed, we say we're not going to hair the number of unemployed, it's going to be public information, it's going to change every hour, and it's not a shame. You were ashamed because in 2011 you had haired the figures so that before the elections, you had driven 15 thousand people who didn't need it or needed it from the government, and they didn't need those people. The government should've just had the number of unemployed. We're not going to do any hairs on the unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26704	Ivanka Roksandić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26705	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Minister, you said there's no money in your exposure. Yes, there is. Ministers just need to schedule it properly. I don't give a shit about these 23 million kunas you've given to education but for someone else's debts. Two county ministers of bad building plans, for bad investment you can see it now, and you know where they're from? I believe you know because you're a doctor and it hurts me. Most of all from the position of the Ministry of Health. That hurts the most. There's money, it just had to be deployed well because if you're last minute, not you but the finance minister responsible for the budget, you found a magic wand and you pulled it out of the health position so you reduced the position for the General Hospital in Sisak I don't know what to do, you promised it to the mayor, you promised it to the mayor, and now you've reduced that position to pay back someone else's debts, so that's why I have to report and protest because that's how you could find it both for your educators and for your nurses and for your officers and for many, many others who belong to this category of legislation that you'll take it away from.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26706	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26707	Well, I won't comment on that part, I'll just tell you two things. It is one thing that debts must be paid and that we serve debts, and the other thing is that laws must be respected, and among other things you have passed the Law on fiscal responsibility and fiscal policy that you did not adhere to. And that's what made us who we are now. If you had followed the Law on fiscal policy and fiscal responsibility, you would have made structural reforms and not brought us into this situation where we are now with 170 billion kuna, with 10 billion interest. So you're in charge of not only us, our children, but our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26708	And the last replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26709	Mr. Minister 350 million kuna is not small money, it is a significant money that will certainly come well in the state budget, but through the debate on the rebalancing of the state budget for 2012 we said in the debate that it was possible to make a series of savings in order not to end Christmas staff in 2012. You said before that we were also thinking about ending Christmas, we were thinking about it, but we didn't come here to cancel Christmas, we found other ways of saving the state budget so we wouldn't cancel the Christmas card, and we didn't want to tell you that, and we didn't have a budget rebalance, remember? So no Christmases were abolished, the funds were missing, but other measures in all ministries managed to raise enough funds to pay off the Christmases. Namely, the non-payment of Christmases that would end up in consumption will lead to a further decline in consumption, a decline in retail trade will occur, GDP will fall. It's a policy in which, by short notice, by increasing taxes, by increasing prices, consumption is reduced and it's one of the circles that you insist on continuing. At least those investments were necessary to continue which had building permits for which there were certain funds. If this budget also showed for 2013 that these savings are heading towards the realisation of projects in the public sector then such a policy would be supported. In this way, except for the decline in the standard of citizens, which is increasing prices, which is falling GDP I don't know what else would characterize the work of this government. Thus, through savings in the state budget, 350 million kuna could be left for public sector employees this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26710	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26711	Well, you didn't dare, but you did. That's when you raised the money, so without rebalance, you owed the state, you took the credit. That's why you don't need rebalancing. So instead of getting rid of it this way, you're in charge. We said we wouldn't, we wouldn't buy social peace with false debts, so we won't buy fake social peace through further borrowings. We've got as much money as we've got, and that's what we're gonna cover ourselves with.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26712	Thank you very much. In 16,20 minutes, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26713	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So, today, we are discussing the Law on the Shortening of Individuals' Property Rights in Public Services, more specifically about Christmas Day and their right to receive a Christmas and regression. It is a topic that has actually been in the interest of our public for several months, primarily of course representatives of the union and representatives of the government who have been negotiating possible amendments to existing collective agreements since May of this year. With yesterday's signing on changes to the basic collective agreement and addition to the contract, part of the union reached an agreement with the government, and part refused to sign. The law that is now on the agenda is, unfortunately, just as I dare say, the hard position of individual unions and, unfortunately, it is necessary. Why is it necessary? So let's just remind ourselves what budget the pay framework is in 2013? The expenditures of the state budget are estimated at $124.5 billion, a deficit of 10.9 billion or 3.1% of GDP was issued by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Public debt is 55% BDp, realisation is dependent on the achievement of the budget deficit and on the takeover of shipbuilding debt. The employment rate in 2013 is 20 billion and 704 million kuna or 17% of the state budget. The mass is limited again by the planned deficit, and the most important thing is to say that this is how the planned mass for employees covers the current wage level and guarantees payment of salaries. The government, but we here, too, support the efforts to keep the budget as outlined and maintained, and in this sense that negotiations are being held with the social partners, however, we support the view that social peace can no longer be bought, that there is nothing to buy, except with new borrowing, and we no longer want those who have done so to date are no longer in power. We also support the position and we clearly and here repeat that we cannot agree to delayed unionism. The agreement that one day will come to someone else's charge, this option or that option should therefore be repeated once again that for this very reason the Government could not agree and that it is there that we support the demands of individual trade unions to guarantee that in the future they will be returned to the now denied rights or that retroactively they will now be compensated for the temporary rights of one day when the crisis is over. And in that attitude, the government has our support. The union negotiators, of course, have the right and the obligation to seek maximum but if the government thinks here, if we want to show that we are responsible, we will not support it, or we will not sign what we know in advance that we cannot meet, and even less that we all act together in that old way, my concern for a few years goes to another. The truth of the attitude we represent is unpopular. The truth is it doesn't bring points, but the truth is that it does cause dissatisfaction, appeal, maybe tomorrow, probably new protests not only here on Mark's square, we find it unfortunately necessary today. In short, these two material rights of employees in public services, therefore Christmases and regressions in 2012 and 2013, resulting exclusively from contractual obligations and not from laws and regulations, will be achieved by an appropriate part of the necessary savings in the state budget, however, it should also be pointed out that the Institute of Payments and other contracted material rights and other labour rights and further in force, application and pay for them and further open the full freedom of collective bargaining. As criticism comes mainly from the unions, which are related to the alleged non-compliance with international conventions on freedom of organisation and collective bargaining, it should once again point out here that the Committee of Experts of the International Organization has taken the view that government interventions in collective agreements are possible and justified in exceptional cases and for a shorter period of time. In this respect, the Committee of Experts considers that the Government, as part of its own Stabilisation Policy, can impose restrictions on collective bargaining of certain material rights. They say even salaries and abolish the provisions of collective agreements relating to material rights both in the public and private sectors. Of course, in addition to the processing that such measures should be used as an exception in exceptional cases and limited by a reasonable period of time. In doing so, collective agreements which have abolished certain provisions on certain material rights and wages must continue to apply in their remaining content and be supported by guarantees for the protection of workers' standards. As these interpretations are from 1996, but as the same interpretation was repeated at the end of 2011 in the recommendation of the international organisation of work in Greece and in us at the SDP Club, we believe that the government did not violate international interventions by proposing this law. I repeat my position on behalf of the SDP Club once again, we believe that this law does not suspend collective agreements, social dialogue is not killed, only precise, individual material rights are suspended, and temporarily for a period of time. Therefore, the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26714	Thank you very much. The Republic has Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26715	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sobol, you listed in your presentation the amounts of the state budget and you said you were saving, so you said budget this year and so on. I'll remind you, the 2011 budget. 123 million, then we're saving, 123 billion, then we're saving up to 117, and now the interesting thing is we're saving up, but the total amount of the budget is 124 billion. What kind of savings is that when we spend more? What kind of savings it is, and we spend more. Then we say we're not in charge. You've put us in charge, okay, you've put us in charge of future generations and in a year public debt of the central state 20 billion kuna already. But you've put us in charge of future generations. They're in politics, so-called. Spins, demagogy, I won't say a harder word than that. Then you said we had as much money as we had with it we'd cover ourselves. The government will cover itself only because the educators will obviously cover themselves by keeping their feet out. They can't be covered because they've reached... their consumption and they're missing it because they're rebelling and it's legitimate. They have the right to object. Because you said we don't want to buy them. Well, that's a terrible word. Do you really think unions want to buy? Why buy? They're just looking for their right under the law under the basic collective agreement. Why does that come down to shopping? Would you say that you were buying them back in 2010. When you ran down to sign then they were good. In the election campaign they were excellent they should have been supported. Now, today we're no longer good, it's a bad product, unions are a bad product we won't buy you anymore because that's what a man does when he doesn't want to buy a bad product. Is that what you're telling them with this law? I think so. And in the end, you said, In 2008, someone stole Christmas and you found the Grinch. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's the Grinch in 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26716	The answer to the replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26717	Thank you. A fellow Boric is the worst of all that can happen to a parliamentary representative by twisting the words of someone else and pretending he didn't understand what was meant to be said. I didn't say this government doesn't want to buy unions anymore, I made it clear that this government doesn't want to buy social peace anymore and not have protests under its window. And that's two very different things. And they are colleagues, Boric, and I don't think it's right for you to twist my words that way. You've been buying social peace all these years. Yes, it is. If anything else happened to the interventions of your prime minister, who was handing out showers to your ministers and telling them there would be money, there was money, and so it continued. And today we're in a situation where we are and today this government has a lead and we here as MPs support it to say, my people are nowhere more than where you're saying that next year's budget is so you forgot that it's inside and interest that they came to collect what you're in charge of what we used to do in previous periods. So let's be realistic and say the worst of all when you twist words. I said I didn't say we were buying unions. I didn't think of it that way. I didn't think it was possible for you to do it. But yes, there was a social peace buyout, and now it's on the charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26718	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26719	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers and vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs. There are difficult times in which we have to discuss such laws and it is certain that none of us are happy when we have to stand in front of a pay phone and talk about what cannot be good at all. I see that colleagues from the SDP do not discuss the main coalition in the individual debates because it is difficult to find a reason to justify such a thing. There are several problems that we Croatian Parliament representatives must be aware of. We can't hit where someone hurts the most, but we can't sit quietly as an opposition and listen to something we don't think is right. The elections have passed, a year since the elections for the Croatian Parliament and what we have heard from the ruling SDP coalition as the leading parties in the coalition to take responsibility for Croatia, responsibility for state leadership, for the problem in the state, for the problem in the economy, for the problem in investments, for the problems in finance, for everything that then in its 21st programme, 21 coalitions thought was not good in Croatia. We were expecting changes and in the year we witnessed quite another situation which is primarily not good for the citizens, for the workers and for the people who live in Croatia. And we can all rightly ask ourselves where our Croatia is going at the end of 2012 today, where does it go when it goes down in 2013 in the year which should be a year of progress for Croatia by joining the EU? We fear that the situation is far worse than it is presented and that it will not be good and that this incurring law into collective agreements, the abolition of these two material rights, we fear that this will not be the end. And as we heard in the announcements a few days ago, two or three days ago, maybe you'll be going from five percent to five percent, maybe five percent on other things. There will always be an excuse, unfortunately I will turn to the past. If this government's gonna talk, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26720	Fellow Members, if you need a dialogue, go outside and allow your colleagues to take advantage of their time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26721	Well, I'll manage the vice presidents because these days we're talking to more and more chairs and less MPs. There are more and more empty chairs, so the chairs won't mind if I said something wrong. So what we should have known and taken care of is that when the power is taken over, it will certainly not be taken over in a way that everything is right, that everything is good, then anyone could get such an election. What some union leaders have signed with you, Mr. Minister, does not mean that members of these unions are professors, nurses and people who pay union membership for it. And we'll know if the union presidents who signed such agreements with you and the workers, the educators, the nurses and all those to whom this contract applies and this bumping into the goddesses in the regressions and what they're going to hit on the pocket of hard-working workers and in difficult conditions today, are they exactly in agreement with that? And we'll find out not only with street protests, with the dissatisfaction of the workers, but with the next election. Because you didn't do anything if you won one term of office which will be a bad term, and then some new government will say that in a new Croatia it's your fault. If we are to blame each other in this way, one government is to another government one minister, another minister, one government, another government, then our Croatia does not deserve to be in the EU, but is going back to where it should not have been. If we are to blame each other in this way, one government to another government, one minister to another, one government to another government then Croatia's nada did not deserve to be in the European Union, but is going back to where it should not be. We are aware that it is an economic crisis, that it is not good in Croatia, but you must be aware that today 80,000 workers are working and not getting paid. They have no Christmas card, no regress, no material right, that today 250 000 bank accounts are blocked, that today it collects food, collects transportation, collects fuel, jobs are lost, 350 and more thousands today probably more. You said it yourself yesterday so easily it'll probably be somewhere until February, March next year even more. So these are some black forecasts in which we and if the opposition must be a constructive opposition in order to improve our debates, your quality. We do not want to say that you are incompetent and that you do not know how to do your job because you have received an opportunity not from us, from our voters, but from your voters who have asked for a new time, some new Croatia and some new responsibility. We can't agree to this. We can't accept such suggestions because we don't think they're good. There's no investment. The Minister of Economy said the investments were not in the plan as we planned, late this year, and we see that they were much less than they were at the same time in 2011. And that's not good. The economy has no new momentum, we have not seen the case Qatar was waiting for a memo that came to the hands of former Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic, and now we are arguing in Croatia whether President Josipovic should have gone to Qatar or should have Mr. Milanovic, because as President Josipovic does not have that authority but has a prime minister. Is that important? Does it matter who was there? It is important that it is made for Croatia. And we see at this difficult moment before Christmas that it's not good. What Easter will be, what next Christmas will be, what will be the situation of our citizens, our workers, farmers, peasants, students, students. How will our people live? We representatives of the Croatian Parliament are increasingly losing credibility on what we say. The opposition in the Croatian Parliament is held by the Croatian Parliament. We've been here for two, three weeks now, only the opposition debates, we're discussing HDSSB, Labourists, HDZ. We can't hear you. You're not discussing anything at all. We sat here till midnight yesterday. We talked to the chairs, not the MPs. We're an opposition that can't, unfortunately, change anything. We can say we're not into this, we don't support this, and we don't want to. But we're not going to change that tomorrow, because you're going to vote it out most of the time. And you say it's necessary and it's necessary. And we won't say that we don't trust you, but colleagues and colleagues, we discuss with ourselves. The opposition in the Croatian Parliament discusses with itself, with chairs all week. Tomorrow it'll be full of Parliament, you'll vote this out, and you'll say it's a good measure. And what's our message is we tell Croatian citizens, workers, students, teachers, nurses. You are fighting for a new Croatia, for a new government, for a more just Croatia, and that will be justice then, and not that someone promises you honey and milk, that someone says that it was a government that was wrong, that it was nothing good, and we can't do anything today because they didn't do anything. And today we're doing better, and we're gonna do everything. That is what the Croatian people and what they are referring to should not agree to no matter what the party in power was called, no matter what the prime minister's name was, what was the president's name and what was the name of any representative in the Croatian Parliament. Today when we get out of here, sometimes we need to be ashamed because we can't explain why it's happening. As an opposition, we need to help you to say what is wrong with quality discussions. But we can't agree that everything in Croatia is fine. And as it started, it wasn't like that. If you said VAT won't change, then it's increased. Electricity, gasoline, heating, wages have fallen, collective agreements are changing, people in Croatia are getting worse and worse. Well, as an opposition, we can't say that we're happy, that it's good, that we support it. And this is not supported by most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, most of them and those who chose you. And some trade unions are directly in the election campaign for your coalition, they stood by you, they were against the former government, against the former ministers, and against the way the former government worked. Today, 2012 and 13, the fourteenth year can't be the subject of just Ivo Sanader and all that Ivo Sanader did. A new time should come for Croatia. The Croatian judiciary should be taken care of by Ivo Sanader. And those who need to worry that what has been done if someone has dealt with the team as soon as he has dealt with it should be punished by the highest laws. And we didn't talk in vain here about Chapter 23, criminal laws, criminal proceedings. Those who have done bad things know where they'll belong. But unfortunately, we can't expect our government to do a bad job and that today we'll smile on these bill proposals, that we'll be happy to talk about these laws, that last night we talked about important laws with ourselves, with chairs, when no one heard or looked at us, and that was just opposition with opposition. And that's something that's not good and that's something that the citizens didn't expect from us. And we expect more from the ruling and from you ministers from the government of Zoran Milanovic. And as an opposition we will make our contribution where we can and there what is our job. And I believe that in these months we have held the Croatian Parliament and made constructive proposals and none of our proposals have gone anywhere. We saw the amendments to the budget, we saw the debate on the State budget for 2013. We're being ridiculous here, because our proposals haven't even been discussed in the government session. So we don't support this. We must be on the side of the workers, on the side of those who gave each of us voters and from us MPs who received the votes of their voters in the constituency had responsibility for what they were doing. And we have the responsibility to be what we need to be a constructive opposition that will improve the quality of our government. Unfortunately, such laws and laws that have been here in the Croatian Parliament the past few days have done nothing. And what we've noticed is that the attorneys of most people don't debate at all, they don't bring anything at all, and we know why they can't justify what's proposed. That's the only reason. And it's nothing funny, Mr. Minister, it'll be funny when Christmas comes, when Christmas comes next, if you survive by then, I'll ask you what you did in 2012. The HDSSB club does not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26722	We have three replicas. Josip Boric, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26723	Comrade Salapic, you've explained this well, but I think it's better if the opposition discusses it because the fact is that the opposition always has better solutions than power. That's true. That's how it was in the previous term. But when you come to power, then you must rephrase and show those solutions from the opposition. Now that's the problem. What's the problem? You said you expected a lot from this government, etc. But the prime minister said you didn't have to expect anything because nothing had been promised. I listen to him carefully, he has good statements I don't know why you don't listen to him on the other hand. I often quote his statements. He said there were no promises, we're not guilty of anything and we didn't make any promises. I hope we heard that. So I personally don't expect anything. This game of attempts and mistakes that we have by certain ministries simply gives bad results. Someone stole Christmas from the educators with this law. Three, four years ago, it was the former prime minister. Now I'm asking you to find out who this Grinch is. Is that the Minister of Labour? I don't know. The Minister of Finance? Maybe it's him, maybe it's the whole government. But these people don't have Christmas, they didn't get the 2500 grand that followed them. We see how they do it, it's legitimate and they claim it and it's really legitimate just this for me is one innovation. By law, you limit everything, maybe we'll limit the tax pay by law. To write to the public that they pay taxes. And that would be good, but we're not going to live to see it because then that would be bad for the state. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26724	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26725	I said that we expected responsibility from the government for Croatia, for taking over power, for taking over Croatia at the end of EU entry, for a new environment. And we were witnesses, we move when we get home to our counties, into our cities and municipalities with ordinary people with our citizens and citizens talking, so nobody's happy. We can't talk here now that something is good if it's not good, if we're aware there's no investment. The economy did not start as promised to run. The hard measures have come, the crisis is exactly what we can't get away from and say it isn't, but there's no improvement. And by these measures, we do not see that this is the only measure that will save Croatia. So this is not a law that will increase the number of jobs, this is a law that will keep jobs at the level that it is now. There are no new jobs, there are no new investments, there are no new jobs. It's something you say is necessary, but it's not good. And that's what people, citizens of educators, nurses don't support. They'll be harder to live in this month, harder to live when the regression comes, when they come on vacation. They may not be able to go anywhere, and the question is what will happen in March, which will be in July when Croatia enters the EU and what will happen with the next budget. If there's no reform, no investment, no economy, we'll be witnessing more and more of these laws. And that's why I was talking about how I expected responsibility from the government, not irresponsibility. ... Will the Government be able to get Croatia out of office by the end of the term if it goes like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't clap and yell now, ha, it's great when it's not like that, when we've been talking about the bad situation for days, about the changes in laws that are necessary because of the economic and economic crisis. And what's not good, roll left to right. You're the ones who put up the interest, you've done the wrong thing, you've been incompetent. The one that ended up in law, this one's no good. And where is this responsibility for what you have taken over as a new government that has promised Croatia something more? That's what this is about. That's no offense, that's what as a representative of the opposition I think and that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26726	Next replica, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26727	Well, my colleague Salapic, I don't think I'm here or my colleagues at the club, so neither do we expect you to clap here. But I don't think my being here in this House is going to like me or not. I think the government, too, and we here have accepted that it's not ours to like people but that it's ours to try and get this country out of the crisis for the next few years. So at the cost of making moves that are unpopular, that we're making moves that maybe everybody won't understand and at the cost that we're falling popularity because we think that what it brings tomorrow is going to be better. Therefore, in that sense, I personally do not expect any applause. And secondly, I don't see at all what right you're calling me or any of us MPs here whether we're talking or not. You know, my colleague, you were here late last night because, among other things, you had a debate about the law you received on behalf of the club. I'm asking you, where are your clubmates now? You know where they are? Probably at home somewhere or in the field, I guess, 'cause there's no TV transmission. And in the morning, you lose or lose to the pointless replicas that even the members of your club give each other are unconscious. And then when the cameras shut up, they suddenly shut up and the replicas go away. They also eat time for laws that are important, less important, or some consider them to be just some technical changes. That's what my colleague Salapic's about. And please don't call me I'm not calling you or your colleagues, but since you're already... I just told you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, go first as far as you were in this House until midnight except yesterday or from your clubmates.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26728	You haven't answered. And Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26729	Thank you very much. Well, frankly, I agree with your full exposure, although I agree with what my colleague Boris said, however, the opposition is there to speak regardless of what seems ineffective completely. I think you should have just said one final sentence, it's only fair that a man says when he doesn't know something or can't move. That might be what you should have ended up with. But while fellow Boris mentioned the prime minister's statements to you, I will also mention some that have characterized a part of the election campaign. So he said, "Better a long life than a lifetime on a debt," so it's our job to secure your job, plus three salaries, and not in a downer to pay you for high unemployment, we'll replace it with high GDP, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26730	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26731	Thank you very much, Vice President. And you, colleague Novak, have said more or less with your replica. I think it's sad and sad if someone has any discussion of the opposition and I hope you didn't understand it that way, you understood me well enough to consider any particular insult. Our mission here is not to measure who likes it, personally does not like it, but better for Croatia, is this government that is... responsibility with everything you've said or better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Was it better last Christmas, was it better this Christmas, was it a year better or was it better this year? And God forbid it gets better tomorrow, and since it started with 350 thousand unemployed, 80 thousand jobless workers, they don't get paid, 250 thousand blocked citizens' accounts, 6 billion debts to banks, I don't know if it's better tomorrow and who's supposed to be responsible for it. Not calling anyone personally a government is a collective, the government is a set of ministers who are each in charge of their own portfolio, each with their own abilities corresponds to the government, and the government needs to answer to this House, and in the Parliament, except for the ruling members of the opposition, sitting and parties who have received the support of their constituents for their programs, for their way of working, for their way of representing the interests of their voters. And about what will be better for Croatia, I will not judge either my colleague, nor you, and we all but our citizens in the next elections because surely they should not clap on us today but should take care of themselves, for their family and their future, and that will be so, it will not judge most or minorities but one who will give better to our people in the time that is ahead if this time is better tomorrow, and if these cuts are so necessary to make it better for us tomorrow, God willing our Croatia to experience it so that it will really be such measures for someone better. I believe and hope that what you're saying today, Mr. Vice-President, is this really short-lived that it will be better, and I believe that next year we will be able to congratulate you on your changes, on your investments, on economic swings if it will be better for Croatia. And personally, I have never offended anyone in these four years of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26732	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26733	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I think someone's been trying to trick someone, and I think they've double-crossed Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, and he's also my Prime Minister and I trust him. Here I am holding the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the term of office 2011-2015, it says: "Croatia will truly become a legal and social state only if it fully ensures the implementation of labour rights. The government will guarantee the safety of workers and workers' rights through fair laws, fast justice, specialised working courts, independent and effective labour inspection, enabling free legal assistance to workers, support for trade union support, worker and harsh punishment for those who knowingly and systematically violate workers' rights." So far, workers' rights have been ignored and violated without sanctions for offenders and without the protection of damaged workers. We'll change it said in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Probably the Prime Minister didn't read it because if he had read it then he wouldn't have said anything we didn't promise. This is the Program, this is a firm promise that the government needs to stick to, and since it emphasizes I trust the president, someone wrote the program and didn't tell him what he wrote in the Programme, because the Prime Minister certainly wouldn't say what he said. Like this, I agree with Mrs. Sobol that we're not here to like or like someone. We're here to do our job but we're here to keep our promise not given, but our programs and this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia's program. 700 thousand families in Croatia are currently not living a life worthy of man, 350 thousand unemployed, 250 thousand blocked accounts, these are people who cannot pay their obligations, these are not gamblers, then 80 thousand unemployed slaves because in slavery those who owned slaves had to provide slave roof over head and food, modern slave owners do not need food or roof over head. It's 80,000 people who are potential losers of apartments, houses and everything else. These are the people who are the most endangered in the Republic of Croatia, they are very many. It is 700 thousand families at risk at the moment, and an even greater charismatic data Croatia is becoming less and less desirable for life. We've all read the survey these days that as many as 70% of young people want to leave Croatia, so 70% of young people say they don't want to live in this country anymore, just before we had a long debate about the Law on Defence, so their fathers died for this country, and children say no, we don't want to live here anymore. Why? Because of this government of terror banks, this is where the citizens are being robbed, this is where the government promised to be the social democratic support of banks and to support large capital. It's absolutely certain that if the Kukuriku government had inherited a difficult condition and you find it difficult, the economy was destroyed, you inherited a robbery from the '90s, six years of destruction of the economy, the man responsible for what he did today, but you knew it all. You knew everything, you knew the state of the country and what you said, you wanted power. You said we wanted power to have solutions, you knew what you were getting into. So what do we have today? What you said earlier about bringing justice, equality, a better life, now you say, no crisis is. When HDZ said it was a crisis, you said you didn't recognise the crisis, that it was an inherited situation, that the crisis wasn't brought about, but that the crisis was a state of poor work of the HDZ government. And now suddenly this government is no longer guilty of anything. Structural reforms are not unimplemented and could not be, it is too short a time, but no measure has been taken that could bring about a good economy. Before the summer when he was a member of the government, Mr. Cacic, the first deputy prime minister, said one sentence rarely mentioned, and the prime minister never mentioned it again, we will not win a war against bureaucracy. Remember, you have it in a few newspaper papers, a man admitted to what he was. That major reform you were supposed to make is not to crack workers' rights but to form a state administration so that it works to create frameworks so that it can be invested. And what are you doing now? Instead of imposing impositions on rich people, you're damaging workers by saying they're getting something that can't be paid right now because the state doesn't have money because they won't tax the rich. You guard the banks like a pupil of your own eye. You never explained why you're doing this. You've put the head of the CNB of a man who continues the same policy he's been timbling all along Mr. Zeljko Rohatinski. Franak still stands as a damaklof sword over the heads of 120 thousand families in Croatia. There's never been a debate here if there's anything we can do to help these people. So everything that's been done so far is not good enough. And on top of that you have one approach that's not a good approach, and that's an approach we're honest we'll talk as we want. We're more honest than the past, and we'll talk as we please. You don't have social dialogue, we talked to trade unions who would agree to some, we'd give up something, we'd talk to workers, but you have a dictatorship, you don't have a dialogue. And that's what the unionists have told you a hundred times. And someone once said that you will not buy social peace, every peace is good, that you know that every peace is good and peace is not bought, peace is achieved. You're just failing to achieve social dialogue creating unrest. You didn't try everything to make sure it didn't come to short notice. And if you think you're gonna fight the state sector unions with a private sector, you're not gonna make it. Yet they are so clever and united. With this short notice, you've seriously rocked collective agreements in the real sector, and that's going to come up for payment. And as HDSSB colleague Mr. Salapic said, we'll see what you've accomplished in a year. Nothing, because in a year's time, the banks will be getting more and more showers, and more people will be sleeping under tents.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26734	Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26735	Comrade Vuksic, I should call you a populist now. You did take the government program and you said it was promised. This is already a concrete task, promises were made in the election campaign. No more campaign promises. It's a task. Now, about that devastated time of yours you're now talking about... years ago. Now I'll tell you the data. GDP growth is 0.2%, 1.8%, VAT 2011. 23%, VAT 2012. 25%, gas Eurosuper 95 12 months 2011. 9.54, today is 10.20, and it was 11 kn. Unemployment 12 months 2011. 315.438, today 35,000. Furthermore, the rise in heating prices is 36.5%, the gas is 22%, electricity is 20%, so everything used to be so much less. So then we have investors' investments 650 million euros in 2011, this year 150. Central government debt at the end of 8 months 2011. 150.4 billion, this year 174.7 billion. Inevidence 12.month 2011. 41.7 billion, 12 months this year 44.5 billion. In this devastated state, both the regression and the Christmas Eve were paid. If you were to ask the educators now if they would live in this devastated state, if they would prefer this orderly, I believe that everyone here would agree that they would rather choose this devastated state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26736	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26737	Mr. Fighter's condition was devastated, you couldn't have destroyed everything. After all, I've been talking since the 1990s, remember the conversion, so it's a robbery of robberies, remember six years of being systematically robbed. After all, we've been given the verdicts today. Therefore, do not amnesty what cannot be amnesty. The car's headed for your reigns downhill and it's hard to stop them. But this government said it knows how to stop that car and that's the problem. We're here to help and blow on their necks and say give them a stop to that car but don't stop at the expense of the workers and get richer and richer and richer. It's a world trend, it's more and more multibillionaires, and there's a growing difference. The production has grown, the profits are growing, the money is growing, only it's spread out wrong. Yes, yes, Mr. Jelusic. But you're in business too, so don't admit it. Therefore, it all began for your reigns. This is what you have done to Croatia, it is very difficult to amnesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26738	And Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26739	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you mentioned that there is a government programme and there are objectives. Today we've heard that, it's not just today, but among other things, and now in these discussions, it's hard to reach some goals overnight, actually impossible. No one lives in that illusion that it is possible to leave the crisis overnight, but I cannot help but think that this government still has a plan to get out of the crisis, sees a solution, only this solution is a bit unusual. 70% of the young you said he was going to get out of this country because he didn't see his future. But don't forget that all these young people will probably go where they are, not likely, but will go safely to where they live better, so Norway, Sweden, Scandinavian countries. When they earn their pensions there they will be pulled back by nostalgia and they will return there and it will be a time of recovery because then they will spend their pensions, good, fat pensions here in Croatia. Is that it will last a little longer, and in the meantime this generation that this government is taking away the right to collective bargaining because this is nothing else, and they will be sacrificed. That's what you do when you play chess, you usually sacrifice someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26740	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26741	On this trail, it seems to me that the Minister of Labour has just said that it will be better in 2013 because the borders will open and there will be more opportunities for young people to be employed in the European Union, but I guess that's why we didn't create the Republic of Croatia to open the borders and tell everyone out. I don't think that's the point of the state, the state exists because of the citizens, and that the citizens in it live well, not because we would fill the suitcases with goods and go out of the belly after bread. It means we're back in the '60s, and that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26742	Next debate and Damir Cain. He's not there, he's losing his right to discuss this point. And the closing word on behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26743	So here's after the debate that in no part of it has touched what we're passing this law for, which is why we went into collective bargaining, which is why we went to adapt rights from collective agreements to the state in which Croatia is. In the real sector that currently has about 600,000, let's be optimistic, 700 thousand people who work out of a million and 450 thousand, when we talk about the real sector are the ones who are behind the machine right now, who are creating a real value, they are fighting for their jobs, they work for a minimum, they don't have a Christmas card, they don't have a regress, some of them don't have 0.5% per year of work experience. Let's remember them, let's remember 350 thousand people who are at the Employment Service, they don't have a Christmas card, they don't have 0.5 per year of internships, they don't have a regression, they don't have a jubilee prize. So we need to fight for these people, we need to fight for these people, we need to fight for them, we need to open jobs, and to open jobs, we need to do what we're doing right now. This government is not afraid of decisions, is not afraid to make decisions, is not afraid to implement reforms. I will find it very interesting to me that some of the structural reforms I will probably explain to you, so it will be very interesting for those who today have sworn for structural reforms that they will discuss for these structural reforms because they do not go through populistism and do not go in a way that they will all clap with these structural reforms. It will be very interesting to listen to these discussions. The government's plan is to replace high unemployment with high GDP. Yes, but in order to get to that high GDP, we need to reduce state spending until new jobs are created, and everyone says so. We're the first to go down the expenditure side, but on the other hand, we said that we wouldn't stabilise the budget based on pensioners, that we'd coordinate pensions, and that pensions would come on time, and that's what we're doing. But in order for the wages to come in time for the wages to be paid on time, we must give up certain material rights. And just to repeat, Croatia is not the exception. I'll do it again, it's Denmark on two occasions, it's done Canada, it's done Greece, it's done Spain. It's not something that's against civilizational fluids, against the social state. You can't say that Denmark is not a social state. Denmark, which has the slightest unemployment, which at one point had to withdraw the law, or give the law as it is. And simply if you want the prosperity of the state, if you want the state to move forward, at some point in time you have to bring some things. And it was kind of weird to say that at a time when the crisis was that we were paying the Christmases, too. No trade unions, no social peace. Did some unions buy some other deals by secret that I don't know. But social peace was bought in a way that instead of reducing certain material rights, we would pay off those rights, but we would still be in debt. When we're in charge of 10 billion, let's take another two billion to pay. We said we wouldn't do that. For public service wages, we have as much funds as we have, and our goal is to increase gross domestic products so that they can then increase and pay. On the other hand, I think that is where the distinguished representative Boris boasts that Christmas Day is paid. But he forgets that a fiscal responsibility law has been passed and that the law should be followed. We stick to that law. And it is something that is a deposit that the budget will be stabilised and it is a deposit that will be paid and it is a deposit that Croatia will go forward. Without stabilising the expenditure side and without structural changes, we will not help those in the real sector who are still losing jobs today. See who's coming to the Employment Service? People from public and state administrations don't come, people from other people come from that part that loses jobs every day. And in order for those jobs to survive, we need to do new things in order to keep these jobs. And it's not a permanent denial, it's a denial in one period. Therefore, it is not even a reduction in collective bargaining. The collective negotiation in the real sector was completed in 2010. See what the social partners in construction did? In 2010, they sat down at the table and agreed – no Christmas cards, no regressions, we cut wages, but we leave people to work. The second solution was to reduce the number of people employed. So the conversation works. I wonder why it hasn't been done so far in public and state services because in 2010, they too had a crisis like the people in construction. HH-Infrastructure, trade unions and management sits down at the table. No Christmases, no regressions, no pay cut because they wanted to save jobs. So what we're doing right now is what we had to do long ago, and the results will come back, the results will be seen. You will also see a rise in new jobs, an increase in investment. 350,000 people are at the Employment Service, but we didn't use what was used before, if we had invested a hundred million and sent 15 or 20,000 to education and removed them then and would not have 350 but would have 320, 330. Everyone would be happy, and yet the situation would be bad. This was done in 2011. It didn't benefit these people, it didn't benefit the state, but it was good for politics because it was a smaller number of unemployed. What we're going to see, we're going to see somewhere in the second half of 2013 when we're going to start seeing that so much desired moment where more jobs are going to be opened than closing them. Since 2008, we have been losing jobs more than we have created them. This year we hired more people than ever, and it wasn't enough for us to reduce the inflow of people on the stock market. These people and all that need to make decisions. We don't need to hide behind cheap pulsism, make decisions that aren't popular, but decisions that will ultimately lead to our gross domestic product growing, that people are hiring us, and that in the end, the number of unemployed is reduced. It's a very painful road. It can't be right now. But again, we lost precious time when we could do it. We could've started it in 2008 when they left. I already said Baltic countries. And for the end. Structural changes are moving, structural changes will be. And it will be interesting to see the discussions of all of you who swore that Croatia needed structural changes. And I note that structural changes are not changes for which everyone will clap, so I wonder if these structural changes in this House will one day be a consensus, or if we will again collect cheap political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26744	Thank you, Minister. Five replicas to your presentation, so we'll start with colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26745	Well, dear ministers, that's what you're going to end up with rather than cheap pulsism and cheap political points that you're mostly used to. First of all, how much we are populists, how much we are not assessing citizens of the Republic of Croatia who know that we are making proposals that you are ignoring because you are a neoliberal government and because you have your backs to rich people and bankers. First of all, you say we'll clap when you propose structural reforms. Please read the beginner from the economy so you can see what structural reforms are if you think cancels then surely we won't clap, because structural reforms are not cancellations if you think they're cancellations. Those aren't your resignations, Mr. Minister. You were talking about Denmark going through as much trouble as we're going through today. God forbid Denmark happens to Croatian citizens, God forbid. Whenever you want something bad for Croatian citizens, then take an example from a democratically advanced, economically developed Europe but never mention the position these workers are in, where the country is in general that there is no lack of democracy there as there is in Croatia and that there is a slightly different government and that there are a little different relations, there is no such big difference between the rich and the poor. Therefore, we understand well what you are doing, how you are preparing and what these structural reforms will be. If they're good, we'll give you a round of applause and we'll back you up, we won't be against them. If it'll be good for the workers, normally for the workers because we fight for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26746	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26747	Structural changes should be good for the country, for 4.5 million people. Therefore, they will be such a demand for a moment, such as the country's demand for development. And when we talk about it, you cannot say about the degree of democracy that Denmark is a non-democratic country and that this non-democracy country in Parliament has not passed such a law as this. Even on two occasions there was a suspension of payouts, which is not the goal here. Here the goal is to keep the salaries, to keep the jobs. And you won't get about structural change cheap populism on structural changes. What you'll get, you'll get a confession after two or three years in the election that you'll get a reelection. And cheap pulsism about how in structural change you're going to advocate one or the other side is not going to go away because that kind of populist thing in structural change is out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26748	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26749	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you're saying that you're probably going to present on behalf of the Government certain structural reforms in this House and that you're alive interested in how those who perform today will be more populist about these reforms that are very likely to be difficult. If this is the case with the HDZ Club, I can also tell you as a HDZ representative if you convince us that these reforms are good and if these reforms are good we will very much support them. But if you tried to convince us that they were good and they were good, and we wouldn't have supported them, we wouldn't have done anything else that you didn't do two years ago when you didn't want to support the amendment to the Labour Act when you were headed by those who signed the request for a referendum to stop that law. So at the time you were in the opposition, you put your party interests ahead of the state's interests. So if we were to perform now that you're doing this kind of reform, we'd act like you, and we won't. You know that saying about how I sow, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26750	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26751	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, here in this last address of yours, you've found a few facts, and I'll try them again and we'll comment. You said I boasted about paying off Christmas Day. I'm not boasting, but I've established the fact that it was. In this year 2012 Christmas Day will not be paid. It's a fact, the truth as it is said. Why was it then? You said we were in charge of about 10, 15 billion so now we're all coming back, etc. That's not true. It's a lie. Then you decided we didn't follow the rules of fiscal responsibility. The budget passed last year, the implementation of the budget adopted, was even higher in one part of the revenue than planned. There was no rebalancing. The same is the basis for Christmases and regressions. Unemployed, so let's get rid of those 15 grand you keep talking about by justifying this high figure. There's still 20 grand above that more than there were. That's a fact. It's not something that can be challenged. It's a failure. And then finally, we compare, when we have to finish, with Denmark, with Germany, and so on. We compare ourselves with Germany because once at the European Championship, we beat 3:0 and immediately we get a reason to compare ourselves with that country that, like Phoenix, rose from nothing, destroyed, and 60 years created a system, 70 already, which is almost democratic, which is growing, which has certain rules, and we compare ourselves without problems with 20 years of young democracy, with war behind us, with broken houses, with refugees, with everything we've been through. But we have no problem comparing ourselves, but whenever it suits us. Right now, Denmark is the one we could compare ourselves with. I don't think we should compare, that we have to start working on the benefit of these citizens because they're unhappy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26752	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26753	Well, I don't know how the esteemed representative got that finding that I was talking about Germany. I didn't mention Germany, I'm sorry, but Germany has nothing to do with this. And when I was talking about Denmark, Canada, Spain and Greece, I was talking about that these governments and these parliaments had to adopt this type of law and the simply economic situation forced them to do it. And when we talk about the fiscal rule, look at the budgets and then just tell me if you followed the law you passed. Well, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26754	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26755	Thank you very much. Honorable ministers each time you have an irresistible need to say cheap pulsism. What do I say, everybody scratches where it it itches or something? There's no need for that. It hurts, it hurts the truth, it's clear. But what's also clear, you say the real sector doesn't have a Christmas card, so let's all settle down to make everyone equally bad. Not equally well, but equally bad. You also know well that the rights that are abolished do not return, on the other hand you have a situation that you already have two laws, your government has already extended two laws in 2015, an election year, which means that your thesis that you will not transfer the ball to some future one, engulfing them with some obligations that I cannot influence does not stand because it has already been done twice. Are you going to open new jobs by removing Christmases from the public sector? You just said that. So it turns out that it's a prerequisite just to take away their Christmas cards and then, I don't know, there's going to be at least this 15, 20 grand as many colleagues mentioned these new jobs as the difference between yours and their way of running the unemployed. And about this Denmark, I really think that it was extremely inappropriate for any example of these well-being countries of Scandinavians, so you say twice Denmark went with such laws and even took from the work of pay. Ensure that the Croatian worker pays what they get when it is reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26756	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26757	So when you call on Denmark, you must have seen Denmark do it. That's what Denmark did in 1996 when she wasn't in the situation she was in right now. When we talk about this, Denmark was not as powerful and as strong as it has ever been and has not had such a low unemployment rate, if I may remind you, Denmark has one of the lowest unemployment rates along with Austria. On the other hand, and you don't understand there's no money, there's no money in the budget so we can pay for the Christmas card and the regression, that we have yes. Another way is to put ourselves in charge. The simplest thing was done so far. We don't want to do this because we don't want to be in additional debt because we're already on extra charge. No respect for the budget will get us to drop our ratings. If we drop a two-billion-dollar rating, we have more interest than 10, 12. Who will then believe in that country and bring capital to that country and help bring this part of the unemployed back to the institution. So that's that logic, that's the logic of normal and logic that must be respected at the moment when the situation is not good. As far as the number of unemployed is concerned, we don't do hair, it's what it is, it's gonna be even bigger, it's just the fact and it's also the consequence of inaction in Croatia for years. Structural changes should have ended already. I'm going back to the Baltic countries again, in 2008, when they cut the public sector drastically by more than 30% and now they have growth. We didn't go that way, we said let's temporarily give up Christmas Christmas and regression and we'll pay everything else back when things get better. And on the other hand, all rights are in the basic collective agreement that you believed or not yesterday we signed with the public services.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26758	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26759	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I wouldn't want to, but in the end, I'm gonna say this the last thing you said. First of all, when you talk about structural reforms, whether we clap or not. I am personally interested and worried about a year has passed, why you have not embarked on these structural reforms. It's been a year, you didn't do anything. Structural reforms should, in some ways, relieve the economy. No, you went with the VAT increase, not structural reforms. When we talk about investment, then you promised, by 6 months there'd be investment tsunamis, and then after 6 months we moved it to the 9th month, and then we moved it to the end of the year, and then we're talking about the first quarter, and now we're talking about half next year. Where? We don't have investments, our economy isn't relieved. How, then, the economy can breathe it, and when we talk about great unemployment, how to save that economy at all or possibly encourage it in a way that they go into certain borrowings, that they go into certain banking opportunities given by the bank because they don't have any guarantees, they don't know what's waiting for them tomorrow. He doesn't know. Insecurity exists in total when it comes to the banking system and when it comes to financial deployment. This clearly in that part won't help, and when you propose structural reform of the ministers, then we'll see them if they're good enough to make it clear to you and if they're not good, then we'll clearly criticise you, but I'm saying you should've already gone about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26760	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26761	Final proposal of the Law on the short payment of certain material rights to public service employees, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 228. The debate on the draft law test is closed. I am making a final proposal for a vote. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 81 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 2 votes have been abstentioned to the Law on the short payment of certain material rights to public service employees, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26762	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 222. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? No, I don't. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first is the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party Club and counterpart Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26763	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a technical law which essentially prevents the same compensation from being paid by those plant operators involved in the emission trading system that this same fee is charged twice, so first according to this law, and secondly under the Environmental Protection and Compensation Act, they have to be charged since 1 January 2013. It is necessary to draw attention to the payment of funds to the fund and the Government to the Ministry's proposal under Article 100. The Air Protection Act provides a plan for the distribution of these funds. Unfortunately, we do not have a plan yet, and it should have held a public debate on the draft plan. The funds will thus sit at the expense of the fund and remain there just as funds have remained in the fund for two years. Namely, there is no project to protect the environment and energy efficiency. Competitions for the allocation of funds shall not be published. In that article 100. The Law on the Protection of Air, inter alia, states that the funds are used to reduce greenhouse gases, to finance renewable energy sources in order to fulfil the obligation to use 20% of renewable energy sources by 2020, to eco-safely capture and geologically store carbon dioxide, in particular from fossil fuel power plants and certain industrial sectors and subsectors, including those in third countries, and that these measures are intended and to finance measures designed to increase energy efficiency and isolation or to provide financial support for the resolution of social aspects in households with lower or medium incomes. The Ministry of Finance shall be designated as an auctioneer who, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, will carry out auctioning and greenhouse gas emission units under the EU emissions trading system, and according to a specific regulation governing the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission units, the decision shall be in force from 8 November 2012 and the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. One emission unit costs 7 euros per tonne of CO2. The Regulation on the free allocation of emission units is adopted in February 2012 and will require large pollutants to buy quotas. The price of all the products that depend on quotas, including electricity, oil derivatives will, among other things, probably have to collect or have some excuse to collect additionally, and the plan for financing the air protection measures does not exist. It is therefore a handsome example of the Dioki and the ESCO funding model. The funds are designed to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, buildings which include housing, offices, public buildings, participate in CO2 emissions indirectly through heating and el. Energy for 65%. This is the information for the city of Zagreb. And now here goes that paradox, instead of preserving the production of Styrofoam panels in Dioki and launching a construction operation through the ESCO model and thus restoring the lasting and by preserving the energy of the shameful facades in the Republic of Croatia we kill production and construction operations we send to wait. The ESCO model is therefore when we talk about the ESCO model we are talking about financing energy efficiency projects through savings. HEP ESCO was founded in 2003, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund was established in 2004 and in 2012 the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre was established. It is our energy efficiency in Croatia. We don't use solar energy, we don't stimulate the processing of wood waste into palettes, we don't take advantage of geothermal energy, so we don't take advantage of anything that we have to say to God like that. I can't help but return to Article 3. The law on air protection and I repeat that the compensation is used among other things for the ecological safe capture and geological storage of carbon dioxide. I wouldn't want to believe it, I wouldn't even want to doubt that this fee will be used for TE 3 in Plomin and that the collected fee will be paid to HEP's production of electricity in that TE. We talk briefly all the time about strategies, structural changes, investment, economic development, tourism and everything else. The development strategy not only of Croatia but also of the Istrian County, especially whether we are a very important accent on tourism development, the largest share in the total number of nights in 2011 had just the Istrian County with 19 million overnight stays or participated with 32%. The next county to follow is Kvarner and worse with 13 million overnight stays and 10% less participation. The frequency of arrival in the tourist resort when we look at these data, the first visit is on average 38% in Istria, the percentage is 43%. The second visit to the same place is on average in the Republic of Croatia 21% In Istria, the percentage is 24.7% and is the largest in the Republic of Croatia. So I say this because the facts and analyses we do about tourism are very decent and very clear, they tell us that the tourist is very happy to return to the place where he is comfortable. However, I fear that tourism in Istria will no longer be as we are taught to be, that Istria will no longer be able to participate in the total income of tourism of the Republic of Croatia as it has participated so far, because surely by disgusting such power plants and investing and justifying the investment cycle in such a way we do not bring long-term good but I fear that we are bad. If we invest in a thermal power plant it's a one-time amount that as such can justify our government's investment cycle, however, if we look at long-term indicators and we've deceded ourselves to be a state of tourism, then I'm afraid we have to sort of set up that entire calculation differently. If we look at the total annual quota of CO2 emissions in the Republic of Croatia, it amounts to 13 million 309 thousand 766 total with the reserve. Of which, the entities that are bonds of purchase of CO2 emissions, i.e. on the list of plants in Istria, is 19.25% together with the reserve, and if we throw out the reserve, then that percentage in Istria is 21%. If we compare the percentage of greenhouse gas production in Istria, 21% with existing thermal power plants 1 and 2, without a thermal power plant 3 which is greater than 1 and 2, then I think we will be in a big problem and now I am not just saying that as a citizen of Istria, I am really thinking in the long term and trying to make investments in the Republic of Croatia into some frameworks of our strategies and in what we advocate and in what we plan to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26764	Thank you. Ivan Klarin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26765	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Tyrelli, in fact, this would be more of a correction to an incorrect quote, not a replica, because I'm not using a replica. You said the Environmental Protection Fund in 2012 didn't invest enough in renewable energy sources. This is simply not true, counterparts Tyreli and, on 23 October, in Zagreb, 60 contracts were signed for renewable energy projects. In total, 54 million kuna is invested in these 60 projects, and total savings will be over 10 million kuna in over 60 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. So these are facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26766	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26767	I said two years didn't invest, you just said there were competitions and they were going to invest, so that's some future time we're just going to see what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26768	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26769	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act. I just have to say in the beginning that this is one of the few debates in the Croatian Parliament where there is no minister or his deputy who could answer the questions of our representatives. With all due respect, Assistant Minister... I think it would be a good idea if he were here with us as Minister or Deputy Minister. Independently, I say we will support this law at the HDZ Club because it represents practically the continuation, realization and obligations that the Republic of Croatia has made under the Air Protection Act adopted last year. Therefore, it certainly means that we will support this law. But more than the fact that Mr. Minister does not have here in the Croatian Parliament is that from the aspect of environmental and nature protection this year we can say that the Republic of Croatia is lost. In the past year, not one of the three roof laws that we expected the Government to deliver to the Croatian Parliament, so the Nature Protection Act, the Environmental Protection Act and the Waste Management Act, which are in a certain way necessary for the implementation of all those we have taken over in Chapter 27. The environment in the procedure of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union has practically stopped, and nothing has been done about it. Moreover, somewhere in April of the month, there seems to be a public debate under the proposal of these laws, and since then, the Ministry of Environment and Nature's resolution Ministry has done nothing or almost nothing, to be more honest, although representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Nature have announced that by the end of the year we will have two of those three roof laws. But to go back now, I am still to this law today. I said we would support this law, which excludes facilities involved in the emission trading system from the CO2 emission charge system and introduces and pays a special annual fee for so-called. small plants, which are the ones that emit less than 25,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases in the Republic of Croatia. What is important is that this fee due to CO2 sources was introduced in 2007, that it was at that time 11 kuna per tonne of emissions, and that since 1 January 2008, this fee has been increased to 14 kuna to what is still being paid today. However, in addition to this fee or the specific CO2 emission penalties, encouraging measures have been introduced at the time, which have in a certain way subsidized the facilities in the Republic of Croatia, energy plants to invest in better technologies to emit less CO2 and thus clearly have fewer costs in their business. This proposed exclusion of large plants from the compensation accounting system is justified and all the activities carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have been traced. In fact, this adoption of this amendment and the addition of this law is practically continuing with the harmonisation of the acquis, i.e. Croatian legislation with the EU acquis in the energy sector. In the negotiation process, we have accepted certain commitments related to 20% greenhouse gas emissions reductions, 20% reductions, energy efficiency increases and 20% energy consumption coming from renewable energy sources. Namely, by ratifying the Kyoto Protocol, which is the implementation document of the Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Republic of Croatia took the obligation to limit CO2 emissions from 2008 to 2012 to 95% of the quantity compared to the base year, which is 1910. Otherwise, in the global global frameworks, the Republic of Croatia is almost insignificantly involved with greenhouse gas emissions of only 0.1%. As I said, therefore, the continuation of the inclusion and operators of the facility, which will be included in the EU emissions trading system from 1 January, is the continuation of the activities so far taken and the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, as well as negotiations with the EU. The greenhouse gas emissions trading system among Member States is a market measure and a leading instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from sources on EU territory. This EU emissions trading scheme was introduced on 1 February 2005, and we can conclude in the Republic of Croatia that in the final phase of the establishment of a emission trading system, which is within the competence of the Environment Protection Agency, which is in fact the register of greenhouse gas emissions. Since 1.1.2010, there is also an obligation for such plants to provide verified reports to which the Republic of Croatia has the exact data on how much the plant in the Republic of Croatia emits greenhouse gases. It is important to point out that after 1 January 2013, emission trading systems will cover plants from the industrial and energy sectors, thermal installations greater than 20 megawatts, refineries, cokers, metal, cement, paper, ceramic and glass industries. In the remaining sectors, which is part of industrial processes, the use of solvents and other agricultural products, waste management, household and transport, measures will be implemented to limit emissions growth by 11% by 2020, but this time from the base year, which is 2025. In addition to this measure, however, which should reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the Republic of Croatia, it is also necessary as another measure to establish a system that would allow energy consumption produced from renewable energy sources. We in the Croatian Democratic Community club are therefore surprised, and we have already said many times, that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction has not yet, although this was mentioned in the 2012 RH Budget in the establishment of the Agency for Renewable Energy Sources. Even more so in the Energy Act that we adopted a month ago, a month and a half ago, a commitment under which the State Agency for Renewable Energy Sources should be set up to take care of the realisation of commitments in the Republic of Croatia that 20% of energy consumption in the Republic of Croatia will be ensured by production from renewable energy sources. Such a provision by law is a reduction in the way that it is allowed to establish such an agency but is not necessary, is not an assumption, is not a legal obligation. And unlike the fact that no renewable energy agency has been established and will not be established, the Energy Monitoring Centre for the operation of the energy sector and the investment that has not done almost anything in the past year for the realisation of investments that could take over a job that has not yet even started, since the Agency for Renewable Energy has not been established. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club are looking for this Parliament to get acquainted with the work of the centre. According to our information we have we hear that the finance minister did not support the Centre's work report for the past period. It would be good, given that at least when the law on the centre was passed, high expectations were made of the centre in the first place to build new investments in the energy sector. It would be good to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Economy, as a resolute ministry, has introduced us to what has been done in the part of the construction of projects, energy projects in the Republic of Croatia and what is the role of the centre and what has been the contribution of the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre in the past period. Namely, since the centre has not won at least according to our findings, since no results have been established by the Agency for Renewable Energy Sources, since none of the three roof environmental laws in the Republic of Croatia have been passed, since we hear that we are not going to do good things either to realize the construction of county, or regional waste management centres in the Republic of Croatia at the HDZ club really worry that we will be able to take over all those obligations, or whether we will be able to implement all those obligations that we have made in that chapter of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. However, since this is a story for another law, as it is not necessarily related to this law that we are adopting today, the HDZ Club will support the amendments and additions to the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act by insisting that these three roof laws be directed into the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible so as to know which policies the Government of the Republic of Croatia is considering meeting all those provisions that we have taken in the process of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26770	Thank you. And the HNS club and colleague Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26771	Madam Vice President, Your Honor's Assistant Minister, Your Honor's colleagues and colleagues. Here I might say at first that this may be one of those topics that does not arouse the interest of MPs and advocates and clubs. We in HNS believe that this is one of the very important topics and that this is one of the very important potentials offered by environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia. What they would say is very important, that according to its constitutional arrangement, the Republic of Croatia has determined that one of the greatest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia is protection and conservation of the environment and nature. Exactly what we are talking about today in these corrections and in essence bringing this law into line with the EU acquis is exactly what the Republic of Croatia is talking about and the potential it has. Croatia is a small country with a well-preserved environment and it is one of the exceptional development opportunities. In essence, with these amendments and additions to this proposed law, this system is also being upgraded on the issue and protection of the environment and energy efficiency. This is a secure system for protecting nature and the environment as well as for financing energy efficiency. So, with these elements that I was talking about, it's very important that this law can have for the Republic of Croatia and a certain economic and development role in terms of the funds raised in the Environmental Protection Fund, in terms of its use, and this is all foreseen in a simple way by the law that applies to this fund back in 2003 and which is good predisposition and put into service of these proposed amendments. These proposed changes also go to those who pollute and pollute the environment so that these environmental pollution commitments are not charged twice. That's what we think is good. That this law, in line with the acquis, brings very accurate tables and very precise standards in which pollution is paid, which is exactly 7 euros per tonne of carbon dioxide in space. We believe that this fund also has real resources and funding, but it is important that these funds be used through good projects and good measures through the economy to protect the environment and protect and power efficiency and restore buildings in the right way, and then we will also know how to make use of those obligations that the Republic of Croatia has under the pre-accession contracts with Europe and Croatia's EU accession. What is important is that this law certainly has or is important for the future of the Republic of Croatia that this one of the most valuable potentials that the Republic of Croatia has is a question of space, environment and non-pollution that in this time ahead we have in the right way to master and preserve for generations to come, and with these funds collected in this fund must be used in the best way to preserve and protect the environment as well as the electrical efficiency of the renovation of buildings. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act has been tasked with having it in an emergency procedure, first and second reading, for one simple reason that this law should enter into force on 1 January 2013 and the right to apply this law is from 1.07.2013 when we expect the Republic of Croatia to be a full member. With the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 5 July 2012 that, for certain provisions of the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act, they comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act and with certain penalties. Also, provisions of the Air Protection Act, NN 130/11. in respect of installations carrying out an activity that releases greenhouse gases, operators are obliged to issue a permit for greenhouse gas emissions. It is, in the current year, an obligation to, in 2013, all those pollutants that smoke greenhouse gases or CO2-based gases, SO2 and nitrogen oxide are obliged to report certain quantities from last year and, on the basis of clear formulas, to calculate how much this is an obligation to protect the environment and energy efficiency fund. Exception from this obligation, payment of compensation on... CO2 for those legal and natural persons who own or use an individual source as part of their activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The CO2 emissions are normal with existing permits, whose annual greenhouse gas emissions do not exceed a certain amount of tonnes. That they are exempt, that they may have compensation. What is most important is that we believe that this is a harmonisation needed and that the HNS Club will value the environment and environmental protection, as well as projects that are related to electricity efficiency, accept and support this bill as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26772	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26773	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 222. The debate is closed. I am making a final proposal for a vote. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 123 votes for the adopted Act on the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26774	We move to - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Sports Council and - Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the National Sports Council. The Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provision of Article 4(4) of the First Sport Act provides that the Croatian Parliament shall appoint a president and six members on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and five other members on the proposal of the other applicants. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a proposal for a Decision appointing a part of the National Sports Council by uniting proposals and other applicants. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26775	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So even though this is actually about four members who have been members of the National Sports Council so far. I think a few words should, however, be said in fact about the very national council that we have established in the Republic of Croatia as a model for the Western European countries and its action have been brought into line with the recommendations of the European Commission. However, we believe in the HDZ Club that its action may not have been sufficiently evaluated by the restoring ministry. In this regard, I would just like to remind myself of the fact that I was also talking to the board about the fact that six members, six members of the council, ended their mandate in June and that in December we only get it here on the bench, and that in July we passed a new law, a new law on sports that the ministers did not normally do on the official pages of the ministry, and so on the official pages of the ministry is still called the National Sports Council. So we don't even have the new law that we've passed here, so I think it's quite inappropriate since we're calling everyone here in the Croatian Parliament first and foremost on the law of access to information, so I think that's one of the ways we don't respect this law. As far as the National Sports Council is concerned, I believe that they should have been confirmed long before, these members so that the council may play an active role in the adoption of a new sport law and it seems to me that it is not good if the Ministry of National Council sees it as a competition instead of actually using people who are in the National Sports Council proposed in front of their own sports associations, to use their opinions, to bring together priorities in sport and sports guidelines that they should have in the Republic. We also need national positioning of sports or strategic positioning of sports at national level, and I think that the National Sports Council will be very valuable to the ministry precisely in that segment relating to the use of EU funds. As a result, I think that the more quickly we should start to use this cooperation not only at the declarative level, not only do we have a legally regulated National Sports Council, but his role should be exactly the same as is prescribed by law. I just want to remind you of the fact that the National Sports Council has warned about what is missing from Croatian sports. We need to watch sports through all its segments and first of all to ensure the resources and models of the national sport programme, to ensure the analytical conditions of sports infrastructure, primarily at the beginning of next year, because if we ask today how many sports facilities there are in Croatia, how many people are at all engaged in sports in Croatia, how many of them are children, how many young, how many women are. So, we don't really have that data, and so we're talking really casually, and when we talk about sport, we mostly deal with as the minister used to say, we're dealing with either the frogs or something like that, and I think we should deal with the essence, we should watch sports through all its segments, sport that uses the community as a whole, and not just give them labels, but national sports councils that will now be filled with new people, or six people who will work as a collective and be really professional, advisory body that will look at sports problems in the long term to get full insight into the situation in Croatian sport. That's why we at the HDZ Club will, of course, support these proposals. We think it's quality people, they've been proposed by their sports associations or communities, and most of all we'd be happy to look through the prism positive through what sport actually gives to our community, not what it takes away, or if we didn't look at sports only through problems, only through hooliganism, riots in stadiums as we often misrepresent ourselves. And in the end, I'm just going to say something that the representatives of the ministry said on the board, so they themselves resented that the Sports Authority is the smallest, so the smallest of all ministries that operate within the government of the Republic of Croatia and that it has been abolished and financially, and I don't think we can expect sports results either too much from athletes unless they're financially and financially helped. The HDZ Club will support these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26776	Thank you very much. And at the SDP club Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26777	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this proposal for the appointment of part of the members and members of the National Sports Council and we appreciate that this is an opportunity to perhaps remind ourselves of the National Council's jobs and that the National Sports Council as a strategic and advisory body that has to worry about the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia is its business and why this National Council suits us right here in the Croatian Parliament. There is no doubt that the adoption of a new Law on Sports and the formation of the National Council was created the first prerequisites for one part of the professional activities in sport being carried out outside the order of some financial or political interests and being carried out at the level of the profession of athletes and athletes who have an interest on the one hand, and on the other, one kind of specific knowledge of sport itself and what are really the needs of sports. In this way, the National Sports Council's tasks have also been formed and defined, but now that I say half the mandate of this first or initial National Sports Council can be said that the National Sports Council has completed its part of the task in one part. A colleague Glavak mentioned earlier they were indeed barataya and the Assembly informed about certain data on both buildings and athletes and athletes, this was discussed here in the Croatian Parliament a few months ago. But now that it seems to us that the National Sports Council has already had to get over some children's disease at the beginning of its operation, that it is time for a real engagement in the sense that the law and defined the National Sports Council. In this sense, as representatives and representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament, we expect the National Council to become quite a service of politics, professional service of politics in order to decide the profession, not exclusively politics. It's not a job to be a service to the National Sports Council, but it's almost the other way around, especially in the section concerning strategic matters in the section concerning, for example, all the important regulations, such as the categorization of athletes, the criteria for professional work in sports, sports buildings. We can find more or less excuses to work, but the law has very clearly defined each of the bodies, and so does the National Sports Council, and we really expect that in this case, we should say to the Frisco component of the National Sports Council, it begins to carry out obligations as defined by the Law. In this regard, we also have a great expectation of the next annual report of the National Sports Council, and we would really like it to be in both its content and its form, but also in the depth of which it is actually professionally considering and strategically committed to key things in sport, significantly more content and in some way much more on that trail as planned by the law than were the reports so far and the work of the National Sports Council so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26778	Thank you very much. The final word of Minister of Science, Education and Sports Željka Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26779	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. So here's a very short one. I thank you for supporting these changes. There was no free walk in the work of the National Council because members only today are actually resolved so that the National Council worked normally. In the past period, it has brought two key things, the truth made by external associates, which we believe was not good at the work of the National Council because it should only be done, and not only accept the report produced by external institutes such as the Institute of Finance, the Economic Institute, the Faculty of Kinesiology. These are a study on professional staff and the work of trainers and sports funding studies that will be presented at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports on Monday and which we consider a key basis for the development of a new full programme of sport development in the Republic of Croatia. As far as the Sports Authority is concerned, it's small, but it's not a matter of size, it's a matter of effectiveness, and it's normal that it's small because we're not increasing employment in the ministry, we're working with the staff at our disposal. But what is important to say is that the budget for the following year has increased the amount of funding intended for school sports and student sport because it is the role of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is to create a broad base from which the top athletes will eventually come out, while professional sport is the task of professional administrations that must behave in accordance with the financial fair play and financial discipline and spend as much as they have, and not more. So that's exactly what's going to be crucial in the work and the sports inspection for which the contest has just been completed and the next days we're going to select three state inspectors. One chief and two state inspectors with 20 inspectors working in district units. In this way I believe that sport will finally be what the Law on Sports writes, it is the activity of a special state interest aimed at improving the general health of the entire Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26780	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26781	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the National Sports Council members and the Proposal for a Decision to appoint a member of the National Sports Council. The debate on the proposals for decisions is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision to resolve part of the members of the National Sports Council. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 117 votes in favour and 4 abstentions have been decided to resolve part of the National Sports Council's section in the text as proposed by the applicant. I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint a member of the National Sports Council. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 114 votes in favour and 7 abstentions have been decided to appoint a share of members of the National Sports Council in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26782	We move to - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the National Council for Education and Education The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the proposal's representative now want to explain the proposal? Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26783	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So there is an important decision ahead of you regarding the appointment of a new body, the National Council for Education and Education, which will strategically consider the development of education, preschool education, primary and secondary education. It is a new body conceived by the reputation of the National Council for Science and Higher Education. It is justified by the recent amendments to the Law on Education and Education, there are presidents and 14 members, of which 6 come from the ranks of university professors and scientists, 6 from the ranks of educational and educational workers from pre-school, primary school, secondary education and education systems and 2 members outside of education and education systems. The public call that was called for was 121 applications, of which 121 applications by the Croatian Government proposed to the Parliament to appoint a president and 14 members, of which 6 from the classes of university professors and scientists, 6 from the ranks of educational and educational workers in pre-school, primary and secondary education and 2 from the external education and education systems, where, if you look at the names, you tried to satisfy everything so that we had both regional representation and professional and scientific education, and we also took it to the public to be a representative of the private school. Of course, it is very important that we have included the Croatian Chamber of crafts and the Forum for Freedom of Education, so that, with all these conditions, we have satisfied the representation of civil society. So I urge you to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26784	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ club and counterpart Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26785	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister. Here are just a few words about this I would say a very important topic because before us is the first composition of the National Council for Education and Education, and as it really is a strategically important body that must monitor the development of education and education, development and national curricula, it proposes and encourages participation and other stakeholders in the education system, I think it is necessary to say something and point out the importance of this body. In his opening statement, the minister himself said that this body was set up or will be set up according to the latest amendments to the Law on Education and Education in the primary and secondary schools that we brought in July this year. It was a new body, replaced by a different body, had a similar composition but also similar obligations, the National Curricula Council. However, I am pleased to remind all of us that we are talking about this body and the future composition of this body, by discussing Article 18 of the amendments and the addition of the Law relating to Article 89, we have indicated that a public tender is necessary, a public call for transparency and the quality of the members of this body. I'm glad you listened to our suggestions even though the law was passed by emergency procedure and we expected it to be so. You yourself said October 26th a contest at the Ministry's website which was open until November 9th. 121 participants reported, 121 interested members of the body's work, and the government proposed candidates at a meeting on November 29th. Everything is fine except for the minister that we also pointed out to the Committee on Science and Education that we expected in this explanation and in the proposal for this decision to get at least a list of these candidates because 121 names are not difficult to sign in an explanation. Today, we, on the benches of colleagues and colleagues, received proposals for the external members of our working bodies of different committees, and you saw that in each decision, our Selection, appointments were made and the signatures of the people who applied for individual working bodies. I think that was necessary, we pointed out that by not wanting to influence and nothing to say now about the members that are proposed. We are also aware that, said colleague Lugaric at the Education Committee that we could get each of us from the Ministry and I believe that we are but what you think 151 asked us for this explanation. That's why we've also asked the committee a few questions that she couldn't answer, but she e-mailed us a table at least to the board members with the persons who applied for members of this National Council. I want to point out the ministers to another problem, I don't know why this happened, I want to remind you of Article 34 of the amendment and the addition of the law which said that the proposal for the first meeting of the National Council will be submitted and submitted to the Croatian Parliament no later than 60 days after the date of entry into force of this law. I said that the law was passed here on July 15th, so only five days after it was declared, that it was published a little later, and it was a long time before this 26th of July when you announced the contest. I know there's been a lot of difficulty, but I'm going to point out another difficulty in the work of this body, and we don't really have anything against this body. However, it will become a strategic body, it should become a strategic body for education and education. And that's the problem of funding. Nowhere in this State budget that passed a few days ago here in the Croatian Parliament I haven't found it, perhaps I haven't found it, and I am wrong and therefore I ask you where the funds for the work of this body are provided. This body will have to have certain resources for work that is safe, but I, from the proposal of the state budget for education and science, do not find these financial resources anywhere. Here are the questions we ask as a club. I want to look back a little bit on the proposed names by respecting all the life-cases we've received and the value, the actual value of the candidates that have been proposed. But please give us some of our misunderstandings and something to answer. We're on our own, and you said in your statement that out of 14 members, 6 are university professors. Everyone from the University of Zagreb, that 6 are made up of educational and educational workers means from preschool system, primary school, high school and it is good ministers from different parts of Croatia. Because that way the council can really vary and suggest some decisions. It is not the same to be a teacher, teacher, professor in Zagreb, in Vukovar or Dubrovnik. That's why it's good. And two outside of the education system and we think it is good, that you have respected, because indeed the Croatian Chamber of crafts, but also the Croatian Chamber of Commerce of Commerce of counterparts and colleagues has done a lot in the reform of vocational education, in the changes in this education. That's why it's a good thing you suggested these candidates out of the education system. But I would just like to ask one question without having anything, but I really underline nothing against the president of this National Council. A professor of science, Jasna Krstović, dean of the Faculty of Teachers in Rijeka, is proposed for the president. Its résumé can read that Mrs Jasna Krstovic was mainly involved in preschool education and early education. The rest of the parts, I'm speaking to the others, I apologize to these members of the proposed 14 council members. Indeed, among them are persons who have devoted their whole lives to exactly different reforms in the education system, who have devoted different precisely to education strategies which may be your right to decide, or I believe, some working group that has decided. Because I don't believe that you ministers made your own decision about it, which may have been because they belong to the largest university, and 6 of you have from the Zagreb University, all the other 6 might take this first National Council meeting. I repeat, we have no objection to the proposed candidate or his résumé, but we would pray that here are some of these questions that we've asked by respecting that this is the first call, but that's why I think it's also the most significant call. Because surely this convocation will, I would say, pave the way for all future stimuli of this important body in the system of education and education. Here, thank you so much. Otherwise, the Croatian Democratic Community club will be abstentioned in the adoption and proposals of these candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26786	Thank you. And on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26787	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We do have an important topic on the agenda. I think if we have discussed something here in the Croatian Parliament over the past many years, and for almost decades we have discussed the issues of existence on one side of the strategic policy for the development of education at all levels. So, both this in front of tertiary and tertiary and science, and on the other hand, it seems to me that on the one hand we have all greatly appealed to the adoption or achievement of consensus and of the professional and political changes in the system of education and science, then and in certain segments within the system itself, and it seems to me that it has been both professional and political that this consensus does not occur. In this regard, as SDP, we see in fact the highest value of the appointment of the National Council as the final establishment of a body that is independent of politics but with a policy through reports to the Assembly and with us in the Assembly, through constructive talks and annual reports, in fact establishing a dialogue on what is in Croatian, here in particular before tertiary education and education should be done and in what way it should be achieved. Sometimes when we talk about what is needed in education and how it is achieved very often we face a kind of paradox between the duration of the political mandate and some elemental logic within which education systems work. The political mandate on the one hand takes four years. We all as politicians have a request very legitimate, very legitimate and very understandable that in four years we make something, change something, and then we go with concrete results to the elections. On the other hand, the education system works in significantly larger time periods than that 4 years at least, so to speak, the cycle is 8 and I think it's slowly going towards 12 and even more years. And it's actually almost impossible to do and one overly strategic change within the system especially this... education within a political mandate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is more important, then, to achieve a professional fund and political consensus, and this is more important than the existence of a top national strategic body that will be repeated in a continuous dialogue here with us in the Croatian Parliament as a sort of guarantee and continuity of the discussion and the continuity of certain changes. It has already been said here that the amendments to the law in July defined the mandate of the National Council. Its work primarily refers to measures, activities and development strategies and improvements in pre-school, primary and secondary education and education with a particular focus on the development of the national curricula of a document that we all want so much and in no way or very difficult to come to. Another part of the work of the National Council relating to the promotion of cooperation and modes of operation within the education system itself in a situation where education is partly decentralised at primary and secondary school level and there is a big job to be done at the level of the founders of school institutions, so counties and cities on the one hand, i.e. as regards pre-school education. We have recently discussed this here when amending the Law on Preschool Education and Education, preschool education which is fully decentralised and constitutional norms and also smart policy is tasked with guaranteeing from a national level a certain standard for both pre-school, primary and secondary systems and in some way ensuring that all children are implemented regardless of where they live, who are the founders of institutions that attend had equal conditions for us to say almost and to start to life. The election procedure has already been highlighted, indeed, even through what the law requires, it has been implemented, a public call has been issued, a lot of candidates have been reported. Maybe it's because it's the first call. As members of the Education Committee, we have received all candidates. I have to tell myself and some of us from the club in particular that there were, for example, no candidates from the University of Osijek and from some other universities in Croatia, which in some parts of Croatia was almost not an application. However, when it has been read by all candidates and this proposed president and candidate and candidates for members and members of the National Council, we do seem to represent what is best in Croatia now and to ensure on one hand continuity within the entire vertical from pre-school to high school system, but also that one necessary link with not so much of the education system itself, but also with systems that are directly related to education itself. For example, the Chamber of crafts, NGOs, etc. And in the end, we from the SDP have high expectations from the National Council. I mentioned in the introduction the importance and the adoption of strategic specifics and importance, and we hope that the possibility of achieving a primarily professional and then a political consensus on the body and we must say that we look forward to the work of the National Council in advance that we look forward to what the National Council will do and look forward to the first Annual Report of the National Council, and we hope that those annual regular discussions in the Croatian Parliament will, in fact, process that practice to start over and over again as if nothing had existed before and that certain continuity that will be ensured and through the functioning of the National Council will ultimately bring so much of the desired and necessary strategic steps in the system of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26788	Thank you. And the final minister, Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for these two discussions on behalf of the HDZ and SDP Representatives Club. What do you say? The proposal that we consider to be of great quality, we have worked really from 121 candidates to select people who are at the same time different but also high-quality enough to have a future consideration of the development of pre-school, primary, high-school education be in an extremely high-quality way and that we do not have an empty walk that has been present so far. As far as the president's proposal is concerned, all these 15 members are fully equal and equal. Mrs. Krstovic was given an advantage for the simple reason that as the Dean of the Faculty of Teachers in Rijeka, she showed exceptional energy, creativity, the tendency to teamwork, team management, the introduction of innovation. For example, for the first master's study of preschool education at the Faculty of Education in Rijeka, and we believe that these skills will be a good leader of this team that we consider key to improving the system of pre-school, primary and secondary education and I call for you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26790	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Tomorrow we will continue our work at 10.00 hours of voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-13-0.u26791	Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Education Council. The debate is on the proposal for a decision is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Education Council. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that 81 votes for and 40 abstentions have been voted in favour of the president and members of the National Council for Education Education in the text, as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues from the Croatian Parliament and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, I would like to warmly welcome you at the beginning of the session. I am also honored, and I hope to welcome all of you in the Croatian Parliament to the participants of a regional conference called "Defence and Security Committees – Regional Parliamentary Cooperation of the countries of the region, Albania, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia, Turkey and Croatia". Let's give them a round of applause. I want them to cooperate well on the welfare of their countries and societies in which they live and work in the interests of the community, the region and all people. [[Applause.]] And now we will begin with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Ivan Shantek called. Here you go.
