ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10227	We're going back to work. - Proposal for a Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, first reading, P.Z. No. 95. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Minister Ivan Vrdoljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10228	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think it is necessary that we say a few words in the introduction of the bill on the treatment of illegally built buildings. You're facing the law, but it's necessary that before the debate begins, we say a few facts. I would really be the happiest to live in a country where this law is not needed, to live in a country where all objects are legal, where the country is arranged and where we don't have the need for such interventions. However, the social context that has happened to us in the last tens and dozens of years has led us to the situation in which we are today and that we must consume such laws. What happened? Large migrations were first caused by industrializations in the 1960s, in the 1970s, by villages to towns, and after that, war and war trouble resulted in a large number of illegally built buildings. The spatial-planning adjustment, i.e. the arrangement was completed at some first stage, the plans are in place and it's much better than it was 10, 15 or more years ago. The economic situation today and the crisis has even done one good thing, which is that illegal construction has slowed down. Irregular construction is also in a much smaller swing than it was when the economic situation was much better. Strongly, at least I have such an impression, an increased awareness of the value of space and the need for their protection. We have various associations that are beginning to protect space, to maintain the level of seriousness of the functioning of the administration, and I think that legal mechanisms have also been established in the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and in the special Law on dealing with illegally built buildings that allow legalisation and tomorrow as quickly as possible legal construction. The basic motive for rapid, we thought first at the start of amending and supplementing the law, but the scope of the amendments and the addition was to the extent that the new law came before you, there was the withdrawal of funds from European funds required by farmers, the legalisation of their facilities intended for agricultural production. Regardless of the figures that point to a drastically large number of illegal buildings built, and then the state's inadequacy and non-functioning of the rule of law in this area, here are some data. We have 31 thousand solutions to remove illegally built objects. As these facilities have been removed so far, it would take us about 100 years to remove them, solutions that have been issued. The first figures spoke of 150 thousand illegally built objects. After a few months of trying to get everybody's records, we've reached 300 grand. I believe there are more, but the fact that I don't know the number today is me being a resolute minister telling us what our situation is in space and what our situation is in defining a neat country. The current law, which came into force on 9 August of last year, so here is the application of a little less than a year, 594 solutions were issued, and about 9,000 applications were issued. So a little something under 600 objects was legalized under this existing law and I think it had to be approached by changes that would speed up this process. Which is good, it's good that the law existed at all. It's a good thing we started to consume this mechanism to see what narrow throats are and how people have reacted and then upgrade actually a better and more efficient system. What are our goals? To enable a situation where all buildings are legal. It's some vision, some ideal view of our country, that is to create preconditions for legalising as many buildings as possible, and those that cannot be legalized, of course we have to remove them. I think it's the worst when there's a gray zone. There are objects that the state as a state cannot see. They're illegal, and they're not registered. Then it's best to record them or all of them, and those we can't for the various reasons that the conditions set out in this law will, of course, be removed. In parallel with this, we must ensure the conditions for the introduction of an e-authority and thus radically speed up the processes for the establishment of the necessary documents and make the whole process completely transparent and fast. This has to go parallel because if we don't speed up today's license procedure, and he was one of the reasons he might not be dominant, but he was one of the reasons why people often joined illegal construction in various situations because the proceedings were expensive, slow. The parallel meaning next to this law we will go into the system of issuing permits and by changing the basic law simplifying the process of stopping illegal construction in such a way as to enable more efficient work of the Building Inspectorate. Today, building inspectors, and even in their powers, and even then formally, have to go out to a public building several times and the scope and way their work really limits their potential efficiency. We really want to draw one line and that under everything that's been going on in these areas for the last 40-50 years, we're saying it's enough now and to create conditions that will be much easier to expand space and control space, protect it and prevent illegal construction. What are the basic differences based on today's law? We expanded the scope of the area where legalization is possible, the most sensitive where the biggest and the debates led, protected coastal belt, agricultural land, forest land, water well with the consent of Croatian waters, cultural well-being with the consent of the conservative... those who are competent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have categorized buildings relative to size and purpose, reducing the necessary documentation and costs according to the established criteria. We made it possible to legalise before paying the contributions, as so far as it was so far, that if people wanted to legalise their facility they had to pay the geodetic engineers, they had to pay compensation, communal, water contribution and then get a solution. In this proposal they must pay for the service of geodetic engineers, builders, architects. Pay one of the potential 60 wars for compensation and get a solution to the state of play. And the municipal water contribution goes into account after the issue of a solution, which means that today the funds needed for legalisation were not a motive, in fact writing this law and are not necessary to legalise the facility, it is not necessary for the owner to have the funds provided today. The regulation that will follow in the way of calculating fees after the adoption of the law in the Assembly is already more or less written and goes in that direction as I have now stated, but also amounts are drastically smaller, fees than they are now. With particular emphasis that we have given attention in the categorisation that agricultural and economic facilities have a particularly low, particularly low amount of compensation. Our draft law was in a wider public debate. We have visited larger counties, almost all counties, well accepted, I must stress that we have accepted a lot of proposals from the public debate, incorporated into this bill. I personally found it very interesting to go to public debates, where you kill and find out something you couldn't even experience in your own business, or in the preparations, the information you had. And I think that way of writing the law through the debate, a broad debate where we've talked to all the chambers, all the associations, the people who carry out the documents, who carry out these procedures, that he actually helped the content of the law be enough, good enough to come to your benches. That it is such a good form of democratisation of the process and practice, to take the view of the profession and when writing the law, and not when discussing it in the Parliament or afterwards. I say we went all over Croatia, we listened to all the problems and suggestions and we installed most of them in the law that is before you. As far as I can see, at the debate and on the parliamentary committees, the law has come across quite good support, several complaints we met in a public debate and here on the board, so I would like to point out, so that I may give immediate answers. Expansion includes possible legalisation of once protected coastal belts, agricultural land, sometimes referred to some of it. At the same time, there were proposals for an even wider range of areas where legalisation, exploitation fields, parks, forests were possible, there were such requirements. Law enforcement on this matter either passes people or falls. In the protected coastal belt are dozens, tens of thousands of illegal objects. As I said in my opening few sentences, I think the worst situation is a gray zone. Either they're registered in the state system or they're gone. Anyone can close their eyes, we often did, and sometimes it was good at some time, ten, twenty years ago. You couldn't or should have gone into some radical measures, but today let there be a gray zone, it's not good. We want to settle our country, and that is why the question, even the 70 meters and the protected coastal belt, is whether this law can pass or not. I don't know if we're ready to take down thirty, forty thousand objects that are in that belt, and they're illegal. In which 50% of people live, in the other one maybe not, but nobody uses them commercially. If we leave too many buildings that can't be legalized, I don't think we're really gonna be able to finish the job according to our country. So far, the selective solutions that have made legalization possible in this same area, and I don't think it means space protection. Because we haven't cleared that space, but one part remains, one part doesn't, and then the question of the criteria is, justice, etc. etc. That justice was one of our key topics when we wrote the law, I even had the ambition to be an absolutely just law, it's not an absolutely fair law. Even impossible for legalisation or illegal construction to reach absolute justice, but you can do your best to make it as righteous as possible, where for years and years things have happened where, which cannot be done with one move of feathers, are absolutely just. We have those who have been building illegally in war crimes, we have those who are arrogant, they've been rude, we have all kinds of building motives, we have a country that used to do bad things and allow things in different stages, more countries that have been. And absolute justice is unfortunately our goal, as our primary goal later we realized that it must be more justly aware of the fact that absolute justice here will not be possible. From the executive authority in the units of local self-government, there were proposals to monitor the municipal contribution before legalisation, completely understandable. People are in trouble with budgets. It is their motive to come immediately to the funds, it is a good tool, the law, the legalisation of these objects, but I think that we have not counted on these funds as neither a state budget, nor as local administrations we will account for after legalisation when these objects are legalized by the very act of legalization, and then it is easier for people to get credits or funds based on these facilities, so we will turn to the local administration to pay their commitments for a municipal contribution. And I think today would really be unserious to expect the citizens of Croatia to pay everything first in today's situation before they get one piece of paper. All will be accounted for, but after the paper that will receive the solution to the state of play. The chambers of authorised engineers had objections to the division of jobs and powers in the production of the necessary documentation. I think we found some compromise, some good solution. The extent of the settlement of the fee that we will discuss in the phase after the final text of the law, given the purpose for which the funds are provided, this seems to be an adequate and fair solution. In the proposal 20% goes to the body that issued the solution, 30% on the local administration in which the facility is located and 50% on the Republic of Croatia. Finally a few dots. The situation in which Croatia is in connection with free construction is dramatic for me and is looking for really firm and difficult moves. The situation in which most citizens adhere to the law and respect the procedures and plans, and pays for the necessary giving that requires living in a community, in a country, and for a variety of reasons, it is totally unsustainable and in a way that does not contribute to some building of living conditions and communal standards. We need to solve the problem now, expose history, and keep an eye on our future and the future of our space. What I'm trying to say is that this law doesn't forgive anyone. All who wish to keep their buildings in a place where legalisation is possible will pay the necessary contributions and a certain fee or penalty for the damage they have done and the compensation for the recovery of the space that has devastated their illegal construction. And that nothing is going to be forgiven is actually the same question of justice, it's just a question of when we're going to figure it out. This law, it's clear to everyone already at first sight is not the law of the profession. That's quite clear. It's a single-use law that we're going to try to draw a line in front of 40, 50 years of riots and looking through the fingers and failures of the state and changing state systems. And what has most focused us on creating the proposed solution is the possibility of implementing, i.e. creating a prerequisite for today's crisis to allow for the law and payment of the necessary fees. We really need your support for this law. At this point, we ask of you who are representatives of all our citizens and of all relevant political options for the adoption of enforceable rules, enforceable rules, and then as just as possible, which would allow for a lasting solution to the problem. Afterwards, we care about the support of law - abiding people, who have built legally and who may feel that these others have been better, who will always write to others about the legalization of objects, have been given a solution to the state of play. And to remove that note, they will have to carry out a procedure of regular legalisation and project documentation so that we will ask for support from those who respected their country, their rules, no matter how much it cost and how fast or slow it used to be. And ultimately, we will insist that this law is respected and implemented by exactly the lawless builders, that they go into legalisation, that they legalise their facilities because today they will have or tomorrow they will have that possibility, and all those who do not take advantage of that possibility or those who, perhaps today after 21 June 2011, are building an orthophoto towards them, of course, in the second stage, we must not have mercy. And we're gonna have to take those facilities down. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10229	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10230	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government held a session on 20 June 2012 and discussed this proposal for a law on the treatment of illegally built buildings in first reading. The Committee also discussed the proposal in question as an interested working body. In the opening act, the Proposer's representative pointed out that the adoption of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings would increase the number of buildings that could be reduced and which would be legalised to facilitate the legalisation of other buildings for use, to speed up the implementation of the procedures for making a solution in the execution state, to reduce the cost of payment and to speed up the adoption of a solution. The discussion of the board members pointed out that the draft law on the treatment of illegally built buildings should be amended in the part that speaks of the way the compensation is allocated in order to ensure a fairer distribution of compensation, as units of local self-government will bear the greatest burden of applying this law and it is proposed that the allocation of funds be paid in a way that 50% belongs to the local self-government unit, 25% to the local or regional self-government governing body which issues a solution to the implementation state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The members of the Committee stressed the need to amend those provisions of the laws defining the payment of municipal and water contribution in such a way as to enable units of local self-government to regulate the payment of these contributions, i.e. that local units of self-government have the opportunity to decide that agricultural facilities can be exempt from paying that fee, that those contributions are paid by way of a postponement, without delay or in wars. The debate was attended by representatives of the Association of Cities as well as the association of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia who made observations in writing submitted by the chairman of the Committee to the proposer and asked to be considered and incorporated into the final draft of the law. Following the debate, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government unanimously reached the following conclusions. The first conclusion is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proposal for a Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings to install in the final draft legislation an amendment to the provisions defining the payment of municipal and water contribution in such a way as to enable units of local self-government to regulate the payment of these contributions, i.e. that units of local self-government have the opportunity to decide that agricultural facilities can be released from the payment of that fee, that those contributions are paid with a delay, without delay or in wars. That proposal was brought in unanimously. And on the proposal of the chairman of the Committee and the Association of Cities of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government is a majority vote, 6 votes in favour of and 1 vote against a second conclusion, which says to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proponent of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, to install in the final draft legislation an amendment to Article 31 in a way that the funds are allocated to 50% of the compensation to be the revenue of units of local self-government, 25% of the compensation to the central authority of the unit of local or regional self-government which issues a solution to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government is a majority vote, 5 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion, the Proposal for a Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. And here I am taking the opportunity as chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, and since the minister was also recently deputy mayor of the city of Osijek, to accept this allocation of these funds to the units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10231	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first one appeared on behalf of Croatian Labour Representative Branko Vuksic's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10232	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Never more dissuasive opinions than this law. When I was preparing for this debate, I consulted several people, called and received different opinions and from those people who know far more about the problem than I do. This law is not only without any doubt a legal but also a profound moral question. But when we Croatian citizens discuss morality in the context of our own interest, it seems to me that morality goes down along with the sun. And famous satirist Stanislav Jirzi Lec claimed that this practical fat had to be far more dangerous than the salto mortal. Is it moral for those who illegally built those who knowingly violated the law to legalize what was created in lawlessness? Has it been moral for those who have waited patiently for months and years for the papers, regularly paid all the fees and respected the laws of Croatia or those of the previous state to legalise it all together? Is it just for those who have illegally built often and devastated an abusive space, destroying the environment to allow in wars or at reduced prices, at an accelerated procedure, to curtail lawlessness? It's not fair. But we must know that it is easier to be good than righteous, for in righteousness there is a sum of all virtues. And we are also as a society on glass feet unformally seeking and as a state we are also deeply unjust in turns. This Proposal for a Law on dealing with illegally built buildings is an eclectic example of injustice, pure salto morale. But when justice has not already been done immediately, we must not, by extant insistence of absolute justice, make a new injustice. There is no telling how many illegal buildings are built in Croatia. One says up to 300, the other says up to 400 grand. Almost every tenth of Croats has an illegal structure on their minds, and by that we are an unsettled state. And as soon as we're unedited, we're automatically unfair. And while one of the unscrupulous illegal constructions served as a means of getting rich, the other were illegally forced into need. She offered them illegal construction of disputes, expensive states, corrupt administrations and self-government. They were offered a mess, chaos and general injustice. In lawless construction, she's scheduled for state and she's the biggest culprit for this moment before the statistics were said. I understand building on the peripheries of cities, outside the inhabited areas, in unattractive spaces, building out of necessity, creating some sort of temporary roof over the head. Even I can understand a country that is on such phenomena in times of crisis, and for us it seems that all the times of crisis, they're grumbling before illegal construction. Did she grumble for humanistic reasons? No, of course not. How could she crash in Koraz Boca when she first allowed the rich to build under Sljemen? How could the poor woman be pinked by an illegally concluded housewives when she allowed the powerful to branch the fairies on the Adriatic coast itself? Part of the administration that was paid to create the preconditions of legal construction turned his head from illegally built buildings because he was motivated to do so. With what? With the stamp, the euro, and if a citizen has nothing else to do with the kuna. But the lawless builders surrounded by universal corruption began to build buildings in national parks, protected forests, on the coast. On the Adriatic pearl, 800 buildings were illegally built in Kornati National Park. That's when the Kornati are about 800 crimes, 800 ecocides and 800 cultures. So the former head of Croatian security while he was in office, he also built in the protected area of the park. I believe he's already managed to legalize what should have been brought down a long time ago. In a unified apartment settlement of Zaglav on Cres, which was built by former Prime Minister Nikica Valentiæ before the end of last year on a typical house of 50 square meters owner with no sense of measure... Irregular, pulverizes an ugly building from 150 to 200 square meters. [[You don't understand.]] No one's responded yet. The building's getting ugly, we're only hoping until autumn. In Split, Marjan was built in a strictly protected zone of 17 illegal buildings. Is that going to be legalized, too? Is there going to be legalized housewives in the Kornati? There's no excuse to devastate the natural treasure, there's no exceptions, it needs to be destroyed. The former government tried to make out of human, which from practical, pre-election intentions to create legal frameworks for the solution to the status of these 300 to 400 thousand illegally built objects. In nine months of application of this law, only 9633 requests for the law of illegally built buildings have been filed and only a thousand applications have been resolved. 390,000 property owners estimated that nothing would happen to them unless they applied for legalization. They realized that the Croatian state is not working. Once in a while, the government is disgusted, the 10 houses are torn down, and they're moving the baggers into the wind because the elections are coming. Their payments have been concluded to disrupt, demostrate cultural and natural heritage. It's like the government would let visitors in the gallery knife Picasso's "Miss from Avignon" or Rembrandt's "Night Watch." If the vandals got caught, they'd have handcuffed them and forgotten them well. Far more valuable nature can be destroyed freely, can destroy whoever remembers. Yet now the government will allow the sins of the devastation to repent to wars and legalize crime, as well as those who built snotty-mouthed settlements in which Mr. Kerum and his cars could not get in because of the low footing. It encourages the fact that the government will destroy anything that has been illegally built since June 2011. I'd beg them to tell me later who else believes it, I don't believe it. Practice makes us doubt. The deadline for submission of applications for the legalisation of illegally built buildings has been extended by the end of June of the following year. And what about buildings for which the owners do not apply until that time limit, if still 390,000 people who have failed to apply so far do not apply, which will be the state. Is she willing to admit another defeat or is she ready to be consistent? Who can tolerate contempt of the law and mocking the state? It was easy for her to rule on wars and with great delay in paying those who worked without permission because they did not have enough money for permits or for more attractive building land. Villas, if they don't insult, don't devastate nature should be legalized but with massive fees. The alarm is also ringing because of the fact that since the time of the announcement of the law on legalization, illegal construction has grown. So far, solutions have been issued for the destruction of 31,000 objects that are likely to be legalized. And yet we are inconsistencies because now we are righteous. As fair as we judge for ourselves, I don't know the answer to that question. It should, of course, be distinguished, as I said before, house houses, houses from commercial buildings, apartments, business buildings, those houses where illegal builders earn money. The pessimism reflects the fact that we have heard more than once lately that the administrative and self-government bodies that should participate in the legalisation process are not fully trained. So we have a surplus of clerks, but a lack of experts. I hope this bill on dealing with illegally built buildings isn't just another dead letter on paper. In a field tour, Minister Vrdoljak told the public there will be no mercy until the next elections. Similarly, the former HDZ minister spoke, and what happened was even more illegal construction. And now I'd read an e-mail that I got, one of a hundred e-mails to understand the same thing about what justice is, and what it's wrong. Says one Zagreb Drago, on the Parliament's agenda, you are discussing the Law on the Legalization of illegally built objects. Since I have built up one floor in Zagreb, which was considered illegal construction, as I have done a lot of other citizens legalized, I have paid all fees under the old law. As the new law provides for great reliefs, among other things, a reduction in the municipal fee by 50% of the current one, so would those citizens who have implemented legalisation by now are practically punished for large amounts because they have made legalisation according to the old law. That would be very unfair, so justice would be served only if the parliament decided that the law was valid retroactively, and the citizens who did legalisation returned part of the fee. It's just like when you go in and buy shoes for 1000 kuna, you walk around the second day of the city, there's a decrease, and you see that these are the same shoes in the 300 kuna window. Try to get back 700 kuna from the trader, you'll see how you'll have fun. Finally, we support the Croatian Labour Club proposal of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, which proposes that the redistribution of the funds be reimbursed by 50% to the local self-government unit, 25 to the local or regional self-government administrative body, which issues a solution to the implementation state and 25 to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10233	Thank you, buddy. Just to answer this viewer, it's a communal contribution, not a communal fee, please refer him to it. Thank you. We're continuing on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Representative Zeljko Kolar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. I could certainly join all those who would say that you would be happy if today's law wasn't among us. However, we are not in a position not to do anything, and Churchill himself said the worst is not to do anything. We should make mistakes if they happen to solve them on the walk. When you have 150 thousand, 300 thousand or 400 thousand illegally built or illegally built objects, when you have 31 thousand solutions to the demolition, then you simply have to act. When it is illegal to build these proportions, it cannot be and is not an individual's problem, but it is a problem of state and society as a whole. The resolution of this problem was initiated by the adoption of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings brought by the Croatian Parliament at a session on 15 July 2011. And that law has made a big step because it's been practically since 1992, if I remember, trying to find a solution to that problem that we have. The new law has increased the possibility of legalising a number of buildings, which includes buildings built on agricultural land, forest areas and the sea zone. The conditional legalisation shall be introduced on a cultural and aquatic good whereby the legislator will have to give effect to the consent of the competent authorities. This law legalizes the fact that buildings exist in space. We can't pretend we can't see anything and hear nothing. What is also very important and what should be the message that this law has its own deadline. I believe, we who pass this law must believe in this law. Objects built by 21 June 2011 and visible on the DOF can be legalised and ends on the 30th day before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, i.e. by 31 December 2012 for citizens who have already been issued a solution for the demolition. It's also a clear message. The law clearly defines the basic conditions for the law of buildings, the process of legalising buildings, which defines that an illegally built building will be legalized by a decision on the state of play. The new law divides the building into 4 categories: demanding building, less demanding building, simple and auxiliary building. For each category, depending on the surface and complexity of the building, different documentation is required, i.e. what is smaller, smaller documentation is needed for its legalisation. Article 11 speaks of who makes documentation for a demanding building and a less demanding building but we believe that the other two categories should also be defined by the document makers. They've already warned the Society of Architects about something, something's been resolved by basic law, but it might not have been worse if the law had defined it. The procedure and conditions for the adoption of a solution as defined in Article 17 of this Act, we personally consider that in the old law Article 9 where the party to the procedure was defined as being a better solution than it is now in this law. We think it would be too complicated to arrange for a construction and spatial arrangement that will issue solutions twice go into the field and put on the building a notice of illegal construction, write an office note, and when they set up and when they download. We think it's too complicated and it's not gonna be good. That is one thing, and another thing, the party's re-question is being asked in the process, in which way the party will be informed. So we suggest that the legal provision that was in force in the past law that, as far as that part is concerned, remain in this. Perhaps it would be good for the law to say that the geodetic video is an integral part of the geodetic lab to record data on buildings in cataster and land books. If it's not already written in the law, then it's written in a regulation or regulation, so it's foreseen because we promised people that, and in a public debate, it's been said several times. As regards the allocation of compensation, there may be different proposals. We have a proposal from the government's promoter, we have a proposal from the local self-government unit, there were suggestions on committees to split into thirds, meaning regional and local self-government and government. Anyway, we're calling on the ministry to think about it one more time. And in the end, what is righteousness? Is it even in any sphere of life and so on in lawless construction? We can stick our head in the sand and not see as we haven't seen all these years or acted. We've started to act, and we believe that. Article 27 The government will make a decision on the amount of compensation depending on areas where illegal construction was carried out and we believe that this regulation will also show some of the justice that the minister also spoke of. A message for all those who did not legally build as many this is the last chance to legalize your facilities because the rule of law will begin to function and after the deadlines set by this law you will simply not be able to do so again. And what's very important, which is the work of the inspection. Ministers will need to be cleared of the inspection. We have 120 inspectors in the Republic of Croatia who can't just work on the basis of a tip-off and go out on the ground. That's one thing. And the other thing, when they go out in the field, then the state needs to stand behind the inspectors, let them do their job so that people don't have to be afraid to do their job, that both the investor and the contractor are aware that when the building inspector came out on the spot, when he put that construction ban board on that means that construction is forbidden. The SDP club will support this law and we hope that these remarks will be included in the proposal for a law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10235	My colleague, you're guessing you haven't seen the government's regulation yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10236	I'd like us all to see what that regulation is. Well, look, I'm correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10237	You'll see, it's not. Use your rules of procedure in a way that is appropriate. If they saw the government's regulations, they could correct the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10238	No, no. You want me... Well, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that justice can't be seen by the government's regulation. So, which at this point does not exist yet, so this is also a matter of belief that the government regulation will achieve justice. So justice can only be achieved...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10239	You're correcting my colleague Vinkovic's opinion, you're done. No, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, I'm sorry. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10240	My Mr. Mayor Ivanca, what a Jaeger he was. So what I'm saying is that justice can also be achieved by reducing the water contribution that is far greater than the municipal contribution, which all will have to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10241	Time. You've finished your colleague. On behalf of the HDZ representative club, representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10242	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, as we have already heard in part in the opening and practical hearings, represents the recognition of the defeat of the State Administration in the fight for orderly, preserved, urbanized space to the lawless builders. And this is the fact that by proposing such a law, the state practically recognises its ineffectiveness in the part in which it was meant to preserve an orderly and urbanized space that we all say is one of the greatest economic potentials of the Republic of Croatia. In this defeat, however, it can only be comforted by the fact that the adoption of such a law, such a law is contributed to the arrangement of the situation in space, that it will contribute to the arrangement of the property record system either in the cataster, whether in the land book. That economic valorisation and better quality and better use of all objects that will be legalized by such law will be legalised and that for many citizens who are still not sure about the status of their objects. That legalization will rid them of trauma because of the uncertainty of their own home, or roof over their heads. As a result, this bill, as well as a series of legal solutions that have been proposed over the past 40 years in the Republic of Croatia, went in order to regulate this problem in the most qualitative, comprehensive way, which has indeed taken a very large proportion in the Republic of Croatia. And the fact that the state is not even sure at this point, it doesn't know whether 200, 300, 400 or 500 thousand illegal objects are certainly the alarm bell, an alarm which requires action, including passing such a law. The reasons for such a large volume of illegal, illegal construction in Croatia were discussed in his introduction and Mr. Minister, and I would not repeat myself. But the fact is that this illegal construction in Croatia has largely started somewhere in the early 1960s, when great territorialisation, settlement and urbanisation of the coast took place in the first row. And clearly there were illegal constructions in the second part of Croatia and that, among other things, the reasons were in the unsettled property-legal relations, in the unscheduled base, either in the land's book. Due to inefficient construction inspection on the one hand, on the other hand, because of the often complex, expensive process of entering building permits, i.e. building acts, which all together resulted in then a clear and this amount of illegal construction. So far, there have been more attempts to legalise such facilities in the legal system in the Republic of Croatia. For the first time in this space, legalization has been attempted by the adoption of the Construction Act, which allows for general legalization. Which means that all the facilities that were built by February 15, 1968 could be legalized, the only conditions were that property-legislative relations be resolved and that the owner of the facility could indeed apply for legalization of his facility. The second time there was an attempt to legalise, which was not particularly successful in 1992 when the Law on the Retention of Objects in Space was passed, which also failed to receive special success. Thirdly, a systematic attempt was made to resolve the 2007 Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. On the basis of what law, it is practically based and now the applicable law passed by the Parliament last year, and largely on these 2007 law settings in the section of the state-of-the-art institute, this law is also based. However, the fact is that none of these laws were successful, nor did it justify those requirements that had been laid down before the law was passed. Therefore, we at the HDZ Club support that this law also takes a step further and that those irregularities that were in force under the law are corrected. However, it seems to us that certain provisions of the law will not significantly speed up and contribute to the greater number of applications and the desire to resolve the legalisation of such a large number of illegal objects in the short term. Before I say anything about the law itself, I'd like to say one more thing. So I'm holding that the 9,000 applications filed under the existing law are not a small number. And about 600 issued solutions to the state of play, which is why. The fact is, the law, that the applicable law entered into force on 10 August of last year. But by the law in force he was not operational, he was not executed. In view of the need for the government to adopt a regulation after that, which prescribed the level of compensation for the retention of the illegally built building on the one hand, on the other hand, the units of local self-government were to make two decisions. Their representative bodies, one decision on the height of the unit amount for the position zone, to keep the building in place. Another decision relating to the permitted number of floors that can be legalized and a very important prerequisite for the implementation of this law and this law was the making of a digital orthophoto map based on the aerophotogrimetric recording of the Republic of Croatia and which is a digital orthophoto map to administrative departments that issue a legalisation solution was available depending on the county to the county but until January of this year. Therefore, only when these assumptions were fulfilled could the law be implemented and only then could it be possible to identify all those reasons, conditions and assumptions for legalisation of objects. I therefore believe that a small number of requests have not been submitted to the team more as Mr. Minister, following the parliamentary elections, after being appointed as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, announced a significant reduction in the compensation for legalisation and simplification of the procedure. Clearly, it was a clear signal to the lawless builders to wait for this new legal solution in order to eventually have a simpler procedure on the one hand, and on the other hand a cheaper procedure. In what ways does this Law differ significantly from the applicable law. In the first instance, the number of possible legislation of all types of buildings which, under the existing law, could not be legalised in an extremely sensitive and of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia to important areas has been significantly expanded. What rooms are these? In the first instance, law enforcement is extended to buildings built in areas outside the construction area in the protected coastal area of the sea. I can ask myself if at this point we are ready for such a drastic difference and such a drastic step to enable general legalisation in the protected coastal area of the sea. If an institute in the legal regulation of spatial planning has introduced order into the Croatian space, it is then the Institute of the Protected Coastal Area of the Sea, which is not our invention which the Republic of Croatia has taken over from the Barcelona Convention, the Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea and the Environment, and which we have really forced local self-government and regional self-government units across the Adriatic coast to plan closely, this most valuable Croatian space. The applicable law has partially allowed the legalisation of illegal objects in this area, but this solution makes it possible for us to legalise illegal buildings in a protected coastal area other than maritime goods, which is clear to all of us. The second reason that we question is to allow the legalisation of buildings on particularly valuable and valuable agricultural land, which the applicable law has prevented. The third important difference is to enable the legalisation of illegally built buildings and in areas of economic and protection forests with special purpose. We must be aware that, by practically this legalization, we are entering those areas that we have entered in other laws of the Law on Agricultural Land, whether we have protected the forest law in any way and wanted to keep them from building, or preserve that valuable land. Furthermore, this law also allows the legalisation of illegally built buildings to be entered in a list of world heritage, even though the approval of a public-law body or a conservation department is possible. Furthermore, we may find it difficult to legalise illegal objects in the area of water goods. A question can be asked from the constitutional and legal aspect whether we are on the one hand protecting maritime good as well as good in the general use, and we do not allow legalisation on the other hand, and on the other hand we are allowing this same legalisation on the aquatic good. It is clear to me and I know who the Proposer is and where this proposal comes from to allow for legalisation on the aquatic good, but I repeat from the constitutional and legal aspect whether it is possible to protect the general maritime good as well as good in general use and not work on almost identical areas in the area as well as the water well. What is still important is the difference between the current law which, in my opinion and our opinion, is questionable in the Croatian Democratic Community club. By this law and by the proposal of this law, it seems to me that we are creating a further inequality between the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are applying today for acts of construction and for which one rule applies to citizens who are owners of illegal objects and who are legally legalizing their facilities after an accelerated shortened procedure. It is clear to us that those citizens who are looking for regular construction acts in relation to these citizens who are now legalizing their facilities according to this law are practically in a subordinate position. But the fact is that citizens of the Republic of Croatia who apply for a construction permit or any other building act must pay a municipal and water contribution in advance, and that citizens who legalise illegal buildings are not obliged to do so, but will only make payments to the municipal or water contribution after the solution on the state of play has been reached, and when they pay for the municipal and water contribution, we will testify in a few years and we will ask the local self-government units how and how they have managed to charge for or charge for the municipal and water contribution. The third important difference between this law, I have to shorten because the time is, the fact that this law introduces four categories of buildings, and the proposal was to allow four different categories of buildings to be introduced for smaller buildings per surface, a simpler procedure with reduced documentation, and which should then be shorter and cheaper, or should pay less for legalisation. We hold that every building, especially a building that is over 100 square meters, should have the same safety conditions, with regard to making documentation and not making a difference in the documentation between a building of 380 squares and 402 squares, but that the amount of compensation is dependent on the surface. Therefore, the area defines the amount of compensation, not to reduce the amount of documentation practically reduces the amount of compensation for legalising the facility itself. I agree with my colleague Kolar in the section in which he talks about party participation in the process. In fact, this law does not define and does not specify who the party is in the process, which I do not think is good and that in the current law it was a better solution and I hold that this solution should remain because this solution will complicate administrative departments' behaviour because they will have to go twice out on the ground I'll finish it, just for a little while. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]] So, later on, I will also say a few specific things about the geodetic video and some of the other institutes that the law has passed. In any case, the HDZ Club will be abstention under this law. We believe it is necessary to fix the existing law but we are not sure that this solution is good and that it will enable everything Mr. Minister and Government have announced in its introduction, which is that it will speed up the legalisation of the facilities in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10243	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of your exposure. A colleague, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10244	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Bacic said there was order in the coast. This claim is not correct or the claim does not correspond to the situation on the ground. Travel, watch and wonder and see what happens at sea. The mess was never bigger. Earlier, a colleague from the SDP said the rule of law would begin. And already that sentence, it'll start, when will it start? She's not working. It's exactly starting to get. I don't think he'll start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10245	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the club IDS representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10246	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yes, we all agree that this law cannot be unilaterally observed. We all agree in this assembly and also outside it that illegal construction is an extremely big problem for the Republic of Croatia. I've always been on the stand, maybe back there in 2002, the third proposed law on the legalization of these illegally built buildings. So I've always been to express myself at the point of view that anything that can be included in this spatial-planned documentation should be legalized and that citizens should, so those who have illegally built if it is possible to fit into spatial-planned documentation, means that they should pay compensation as well as legal builders but with a certain penalty. Whether 5, 10% we can talk about it or we can talk about 15 or 20%. Especially in this crisis, no one needs to be butchered, but some punishment needs to be determined. And I will always defend that principle. So it's better to legalize than to crash, better to have the state coming in for some money. We spoke two, three years ago that legalising illegal construction, by legalisation alone, could also generate a billion euros in the state budget. We can see it won't be anything. But it's equally important that these buildings can be put into operation, that they can be offered indirectly to the market, that owners can make it through them, I don't know how to rent apartments and some fees, and so if it's legally regulated to pay my own state. I was also so as not to create traumas that at least illegally built because they were in a different position than some other citizens. Probably most of them wouldn't have done that if it were, for example. She could get a social apartment, as is also true, and there you'll all agree with me, that it's not the same if someone wrongly doesn't build a barn in a Caini or if they're building a cottage at sea. It's not the same if someone was building a home because the administration of a city didn't solve the problem I don't know about in a Buzette or if someone was building an illegal house under Sljemen where it shouldn't be built. And now I remember when I was already on this Buzet, to mention one example, the government of Petretic who got there about ninety and some first location permit, so building permit, in 2005, when he built a house or a sixth, I don't even know how to use the permit. He came after that in 2009 to ask the city to also get a location for building a garage, and these answered him around, we changed the spatial plans, sory your house more to us. He said wait, come to the window, see that house standing where she stood for so many years. He says, "Sorry, we can't help you." You can't just answer that. He asked me what to do, I said nothing, Vlado, works without a building permit. What can I tell you? If the administration brings you into this situation, it builds you that way. He says I won't, I won't risk any punishment, no sanctions. Now comes the new law. God forbid he just listened to me right now. But let's let it go now. So I am for legalizing illegal construction, but these conditions under this law I would say are at least tense. Why am I legalizing, why am I a ghost of the law? That's what I said. But I'm not for these offered monetary solutions. Why am I not offered these monetary solutions? Because this law treats us all like we're naives, like we're not normal. Because this law also treats legal builders as if they are not normal and because this law is the case for those who have come into the situation in due time to be torn down as well to express myself so abnormally. And now let me explain to you on the basis of which I can confirm that claim. So the lawless builder who's legally legalized by the old law, means by the law that is still in force today, or it's going to be a few more months, he's in a more favourable position than he is a legal builder. Is that okay? Is that normal? It's not normal. That illegal builder who legalized an object under the old law is in a more unfavourable position than that of an illegal builder who will legalize a building under this law. And those who will not legalise their object under this law until 30.6.2013 will wait for a new law after 30.6.2013, and I am sure they will be even more favourable than those who will legalise the object under this law. And then you're really asking yourself what's normal about it? Who's crazy about that? Who's normal here? What is the purpose of the law itself? The Ministry will say so no one will be privileged even in a better position after 30.6.2013 when these deadlines expire, but we have also claimed that the existing law. But I'm sure the lawless builders play cats and mice with the government. How many illegal buildings, cottages, swimming pools, even septic caves the law treats them to have building permits which is absurd. How many barns, etc. in the Republic of Croatia, illegally built. We heard 250 grand, someone says 300, someone says 500 grand, let's say there's 250. How many legalization requests have come to date from these 250 or 300 thousand illegal objects. By 15.5.2012, it was after 9 months of application of the law only or even 9633 legalisation applications of which less than a thousand were resolved. And what does that really mean? Or the illegal builders don't fear the authority of the state, they know the law will change in the next ten years not know it another 15 years, or they don't, and that's true, they don't have the money for that legalization today even though someone can ask themselves how you had the money to illegally build a cottage or a 600, 800-square castle, and now you don't have a building permit. And finally, if that speed solves the problem of illegal construction in a year thousands of requests, it will take our brother 250 to 300 years to legalise illegal construction and solve this problem in Croatia. Now, if someone was building an apartment house, if he was building a barn, if he was building a space to open a bakery, tool shop, etc., I understand that. If someone was opening up to rent that space, I just can't justify it. Chiefs of Istrian municipalities, cities are reserved until this law, go to Marcan, Kavran, Barbariga, Peroj, disaster, Rovinj, it doesn't matter now, Rakalj, Duga cove. It's interesting, gentlemen, that we in Istria have not had this problem of illegal construction until the 1990s, the problem began to appear there sometime after '95. Go on. It's been made to somehow control, the others were almost impossible, but it's also true our people were selling the land. I'm not going to quote the provisions because I don't have much time, but I'm going to say that the law is considerate to local self-government because under this law local self-government is not required to bring infrastructure, meaning asphalt, water, road, electricity, and we know that such demands will be. This law, unfortunately, will not stop lawless construction. Some of the areas in the country are almost devastated, I said who sold the country always fetishes citizens of Istria, the coast, the islands, etc., but this problem will certainly continue. What this law should do in these difficult times in my court is even without compensation to legalize radio, stables, economic facilities. Here's your state incentive, so just work, produce, have some. Legalisation should especially be insisted by the sea, that apartments, to get this categorization, to start reporting guests, not to work on black, to pay residence tax, VAT etc., etc. And finally, if this law had been proposed in some better time, perhaps there in 2002, in 2003, I am convinced that most of the problem might have been solved. Let's help people, absolutely yes, but we can't put the lawless builders in a better position than the legal builders. It's just too much. For legalizing yes, for guessing lawless builders not. The stables, the radios, the ones where people are tortured, they can be legally legalized, so to speak, for 1 kuna. Where people are resting, there must go gentlemen real some fee and as the last one, and what Minister Vrdoljak was talking about, says that we will legalize it, we will then introduce the property tax, constantly announces that property tax. I say with caution, in Croatia 90% of families have some real estate, in Germany 60%, which does not mean that Croatian citizens live better than those in Germany. But what's the point when we talk about this property, you take care of your grandfather's property, your cottages, this other thing, it's no problem and taxing. Today I'm reading here in the proposal to expand the agenda goes to abolish extra tax on yachts, I'm also saying it's okay that even though I absolutely don't think about buying a yacht but to drive on it because that tax, why it's okay, destroyed a small domestic craft production and let it be taxed afterwards, but once again I remind myself of taxing my grandfather's a little bit, will be a problem here. And on the other hand, who's going to legalize illegal construction now if they know someone's going to chase him down with the IRS after that. By yesterday, people by the sea who were illegally building at least regularly paid all those utility fees for fear of collapse, all with the aim of legalizing them, and now I'm afraid they'll get into trouble and pay a whole series of fees. I agree, as the representative of the SDP Club said, if we have 31 thousand solutions in this country to destroy it is a huge problem, it is not only a problem for families who have received this solution but it is a problem for the whole community, the state as such. But now 90% of those 31 thousand will simply legalize and allow people to legalise buildings at a lower price than legal builders could. It is not fair, however, this law goes into second reading and perhaps this remark can be adopted in some way. That he needs the law, he needs it. If he needed help and came out to meet people, he should. But no one should be put in a more privileged position than the one who simply respected the legal order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10247	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10248	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of this bill on the treatment of illegally built buildings is with all my shortcomings which I will try to explain during the debate far more quality and professionally based than the existing HDZ Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings in a people called "Law on Legalisation", which entered into force on 10 August 2011. I really don't know what the aim of this law was for which each item was noted by prominent experts in the area. The existing Law on Legalisation should have increased the number of buildings that could be legalised and facilitated the legalisation process and was expected, so at least the HDZ government at the time explained the law, hundreds of thousands of demands, but time showed that by mid-May this year, just over 9.5 thousand requests were received, and only a thousand of them were resolved. Such defeating data go to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also show how right we were in the HDSSB when our representatives from the HDSSB Club discussed the proposal of this existing law made clear that this unfinished and unclear law would achieve nothing but resolving part of the problem with considerable financial costs and its use for pre-election purposes and favouring the legalisation of villas and apartments on the coast. Prior to this existing HDZ law, the HDSB sent its proposal to the Croatian Parliament for a law supplementing the Law on spatial planning and construction, which would effectively address the problem of illegal agricultural construction at minimum financial costs. Of course, given the difficult economic situation and the unenviable position of our farmers ahead of the collapse, and the existing illegal facilities represent the only source of existence for farmers. It's supposed to be about 100,000 of such objects, but I personally think that the figure is significantly higher but unfortunately, and we don't have the right information about many things because nobody even bothered to add up the illegal objects. The rural economies have a rare half of 4.5 illegal facilities. Every barn, henhouse, pig's an illegal object. Unfortunately, however, the government has rejected our proposal, explaining that it wants to solve the problem only of agricultural buildings. There is not much time, and everyone as one of the strategic branches of the economy mentions agriculture. A farm that's humiliated, where our producers are not sure of anything. They are not sure when the incentives will be paid, they are not sure if they will have anyone to sell what they produce, they are not sure how much they will be priced for the product purchased, and according to the draft Agricultural Land Act, they are no longer sure whether they will be able to process the land and to whom they will be granted and by what criteria. Such an attitude towards the strategic branch of economic development of the Republic of Croatia is inadmissible. These benefits from this attitude towards agriculture can only be enjoyed by strong import lobbys, which will have particular reason to celebrate when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the EU. And Croatian agriculture is absolutely competitive on both domestic and large European markets. The Republic of Croatia has accepted the EU standard by which each agricultural facility must be legalised. Otherwise, the agricultural producer loses the right to support as well as to use funds from pre-accession funds. And that's one of the reasons why pre-accession funds aren't nearly used by our farmers. As one example, I cite so-called. A "nitrate directive" which requires that lagoons be built beside each stop for standing manure that are required for the production and require significant financial resources. However, as part of rural development, the Republic of Croatia has provided the possibility of funding from the European Rural Development Fund in the period from 2014 to 2020 up to a maximum of 75% of projects related to the implementation of the nitrate directive, and that is to say, for every commendation. But farmers will not be able to benefit from that because most agricultural facilities in agriculture are not legal. Therefore, no permanent manure facilities can be built alongside existing facilities. Such examples are many, and the resources of our farmers are few. And for this reason, they need to be able to legalise their facilities as quickly and financially and painlessly as possible because only well prepared can we stay on the... European market. What makes the bill on dealing with illegally built buildings better than the existing one? In the existing law, Article 2(1) states that an illegally constructed building is considered to be a new building, i.e. a reconstructed part of an existing building built without an act approving the construction, or contrary to that act, of a registered digital orthophoto of maps of the State Geodesy Administration built on the basis of an aerophotometric recording of the Republic of Croatia since 21 June 2011. The proposed law refers to buildings which are visible on a digital orthophoto map or on any other digital orthophoto map of the State Geodesy Administration made on the basis of an aerophotoge of geometry or recorded on a catastrian plan or other official cartographic basis. The proposed law in Article 3(3) speaks of the legalisation of other buildings directly serving the use of illegally built buildings, i.e. existing buildings or the conduct of a technological process in the building, shall be considered as an integral part of it and shall be legal in conjunction with the building, or in accordance with this law. This item shows the possibility of legalising other buildings, but which are linked to a building that is legalized especially because the proposer left a wide possibility of identifying which buildings are through the formulation – silo, water storage, septic pit, swimming pool and other buildings directly used for the use of illegally built buildings, i.e. existing buildings or the conduct of a technological process in the building. My remarks refer to Article 6(4), which states: "The illegally built building cannot be legal if it is located on the existing surface of public purpose, marine good or water good other than a building built on a water well with the consent of Croatian waters, a legal person for water management." I think the same should apply to public good roads, i.e. that, with the consent of the competent legal person who manages the roads of the state – Croatian roads, county and local roads – County road administrations for roads and unclassified roads – units of local self-government are able to legalise buildings that enter the road belt and do not interfere with the safe movement and the regular and extraordinary maintenance of roads. For example, in our Slavonian villages, and I believe that the same situation in the rest of Croatia, which along the road, does not matter which rank is the road, have a wide green belt, or houses are not right next to the road, we have a problem that the smaller part of the road has entered the public goods, and according to this law will not be legal. Further provisions lay down the draft law laying down the procedure for the law of buildings and the necessary documents. Articles 11 to 15 introduce a distinction in the process of issuing a solution to the state of play in view of the size and purpose of the building for which the solution is submitted. If we look at the proposed provisions they are better than valid, because they make a difference between buildings. But there is still a number of documentation to be attached. In the case of agricultural construction less than 1000 metres of square building surfaces, it is necessary to attach 3 copies of the geodetic plan, i.e. a recording or 3 examples of a copy of the Katastrian plan. If the building is inverted on the catastrian plan and 3 copies of the footage of the derived state of the illegally built building built by an authorised architect or an authorised engineer. The creation of these legalized documents requires certain financial resources that our citizens, especially when it comes to farmers, do not have. In the case of buildings whose building gross surface is larger than 400 square metres or for buildings to carry out exclusively agricultural activities whose gross surface is greater than 1000 metres square meters, the construction area should be accompanied by geodetics, i.e. copies of the cadastrian plan and architectural footage, as well as a statement by the authorised architect, as well as authorised engineers of construction, electrical engineering and engineering. That the illegally built building fulfils the essential safety requirement in use and an essential requirement to protect against fires under the regulations applicable when the building is built or according to applicable regulations in the case of a completed building, or part thereof. So he appears at the time of the publication of these statements, because they are preceded by extremely expensive atheists for all possible installations and connections, and it is not even known whether such arrests will be positively solved. Because it is known that many citizens have studied this case where they have come to realize that in a large part of the residential building that does not have a valid permit they are not built in accordance with the building permit. They're also illegal, and citizens pay their loans neatly for them. Only at the end of 2007, did the State stipulate by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction that real estate could not be entered in the cadastre, nor in land books without applying the applicable permit. While it was possible to enter the property without a valid permit under earlier regulations. So the buyer didn't even know he was buying an illegally built apartment, which he can't sell now, nor could his children inherit it. The law should simplify the process of coming up with a solution for such apartments, but in this case, the law sets out various experts and amateurs that are very expensive and demanding. The draft law also sets out the obligation to pay for the municipal and water contribution and to pay compensation for the retention of the illegally built building in space. Furthermore, it is said that the height and method of calculating the compensation will be prescribed by the government by its regulation. As far as she's going to be, we're not familiar with her, and we're even less familiar with whether she'll be acceptable to our citizens. The passed law is much better than it is in force, allowing for the legalisation of buildings directly used for the use of illegally built buildings. Documentation has been developed in view of the size and purpose of the building, which needs to be legalised. In addition, the deadline for submission of the application was extended until 30 June 2013. However, the procedure itself has not been simplified to a greater extent, the costs of water and municipal contributions have not been reduced. Aware of the difficult economic situation in which Croatian citizens are located, especially farmers who can only survive on the market with free legalisation of their illegal facilities. We at the HDSSB are urging the government to keep legalisation costs to a minimum. In addition to all the difficulties that have hit the pocket of Croatian citizens, from a high VAT rate, energy prices, daily food collection, GDP decline and the growth of unemployment, citizens will not be able to settle the costs of legalising the facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10249	Thank you. On behalf of HNS MP Ivica Mandić. Here you go. Just a notice that it's time to sign up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10250	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with the Deputy and Assistants. Today, we need to discuss a very important and important law that tries to be just. What I'd say at the beginning is that the state of the space is unsatisfactory and that we have a large number of illegally built objects. To a greater extent, I agree with colleagues who have brought their sightings to their clubs, but what I would say in front of HNS, that the worst thing is not to do anything. To do nothing means to make another greater injustice against all those who respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. What is also important to note is that countries in northern Europe do not know this problem and that it is rare for them. It means that they're legally arranged states, and what our people like to say more southly, this is too much. The experiences of other countries. I could say that the experience of neighbouring Italy was that they legalized all the facilities at the same price. I believe that such a solution in the Republic of Croatia is not good, because it may be that they would make an even greater injustice. What this law wants us to do, try to get to a zero rate, try to regulate all illegally built objects and put them in the space where they exist. I would say that since February 1968, when it was a general legalisation of all objects, it was still in the old state, until the attempts tried to make ministers so far, who saw that this problem that plagues the Republic of Croatia, since 2007 and 2011. The proposal for this Law with illegally built objects is trying to make a minor injustice, and this time I apologize to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who also respected the legal procedure in the adoption and the establishment of the necessary documentation for the construction of the facilities. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where, according to data, there are over 500 thousand such objects in the Republic of Croatia, over 500 thousand of these objects. And I wonder if the Republic of Croatia has the strength to destroy everything that was made in space? I say here responsibly in front of the Croatian People's Party club that no government would want to do so and that is impossible. But why are we going to uphold this law? Because we believe that these people who built illegal buildings will still be put into the system because they and now illegally built objects use infrastructure, roads, trails, communals, everything else and pay nothing. And I think if we don't try to do anything here, then it's an absolute injustice. That the law will be absolutely fair, there is no such law. What we certainly welcome is that the law must be, try to be just even though the problem is very complex and that this law is not simple at all in any way. What is important is that with this law we must maintain standards of protection and space and the environment, including certain, protection of certain economic cycles or certain productions. Without the legalization of illegally built objects, we would in certain areas especially in rural areas from Slavonia, Zagorje, Like, Dalmatia, Istria might essentially limit economic development because in these areas people live from agriculture and other small crafts. Without legalization, economic development would be denied. What is also very important and directly related to illegally built objects are the issues and incentives of the European Union that come through certain programmes. Without legal facilities, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are engaged in agricultural production remain without incentives. What I would also point out is that this Law is much simpler, much more functional and much more precise. I believe in these discussions that we have heard so far that the minister and his associates will certainly know how to use and make this law even better. What I would also say, and that's what colleague Kolar mentioned the number of inspectors. They are insufficient numbers, although last year they did 13400 inspections. But what's not good is that it's as if you put it on some advertising board that it doesn't have any effect, that there's been inspection on certain prohibitions of further construction on illegally built buildings that people who don't respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia have been so violent that those plastics have been torn apart and that's just talking about how we operate as a legal state. The colleagues have already said about the requirements that came under the old law and that it came in this time from 10.8.2011 until now, 9653 demands. Of these requirements, 594 were received, 390 rejected, 528 resolved. I'd say there's a big problem and it's a question of the capacitation of the service that's going to solve, and here if we said that the number is somewhere around 500,000 illegal objects, then I just see who's expecting us a job. What we should also look at here at the adoption of this law, illegally built buildings we are talking about here about illegal buildings, that it is certainly necessary to keep an eye on those parts where complete settlements are illegally built, that it should certainly be respected that these settlements as a whole are legalized with all the necessary facilities that need to go along with one settlement. What counterpart Vuksic said about Kornati 808 objects was registered in the Kornati Nature Park, and of these 808 illegally built buildings were 400 built illegally. A colleague said it was all illegal, because these are part of objects that are also traditional objects that were related to agriculture. What I would also point out is that with this law that tries to solve the problem of chronic disrespecting the construction of illegal objects that this law should draw a line and prevent it. It is also good that this law provides for the legalisation of as many objects as possible and that part of objects that are located under special conditions can be legalised but the opinions of the Ministry of Culture, Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests are needed. We also think it's a good solution. What we also support is that the procedure is significantly facilitated and significantly accelerated. What is also very important is how the parts of the objects that have been illegally designed have come to a solution that they must be removed or destroyed is important that this space must remain remedied until the end. Because just to tear down, and leave space unscheduled, I think it would be an even bigger and worse situation. What is also good in this law that the procedure for the adoption of this law has been going on for over a month and a half and that all relevant services involved in the adoption of this law from the administrative bodies to the Association of Architects, the Association of Builders, the Tourist Community, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is involved and therefore I think that this law has been quite well and hit and the debate has been quality and it has been held in 11 cities of the Republic of Croatia. What is also important in this law is the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Spatial Planning. It means that this is a very important law because it needs to enable further development and further progress. Because for example, if the Ministry of Agriculture were to run another policy towards this problem, I think it would lead to a very unfavourable position for all the family economies dealing with agricultural production. What is also important is that the register of illegally built objects should be made as soon as possible. Because we don't have that data yet, and we don't even have that data for the agricultural situation. What is also good in this law is that Articles 5, 6 and 7 lay down the basic conditions for the legalization of illegally built buildings, and Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of them bring legalisation procedures for undeveloped buildings in space. The HNS Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10251	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. The minister called in his word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10252	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10253	Correction. I'm sorry. Here's my colleague Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10254	Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10255	I wrote it down, but I wanted to dynamic this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10256	A colleague said that the rule of law is currently not working, that this law will allow it to function within a reasonable period of time. I'm sure on some reasonable time they will, maybe next week after the weekend, maybe after summer holidays, but not so fast and not on these grounds. In fact, he also said that these people would be put into the system. They will be put into the system by those who have excitated the system so far. Everyone without exception. It has already been done by Minister Linic with the taxation of illegally acquired assets. The justice system, the just state and the social state cannot be built on that line of Putin. So far, what's the matter? It was now I'm going to draw your line and now we're going to go straight, but what's been done so far is not going to touch it. That's not how an honest country works.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10257	Thank you. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10258	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. First I want to thank you, thank you seriously for the constructive debate and I think that and the content of the debate has shown that we are all more or less aware of the seriousness of the problems that we all have together as a country in space. And it is not good that there are times when neither in the Parliament nor in the Government or in any state institution we are trying in any way to make fun of or banalise the functioning of the rule of law. Each of us carries part of our responsibility, sometimes more, sometimes less in history or today. And it's not good to say that it's going to happen next week or next week, and that way it's worth the job of all of you or all of us. So, in the debate, I just want to look at a few details. The fee that was mentioned, you saw how the debate was going. Someone says don't let those who are legally built feel disbursed because the fees will be lower. And then in the same text the same parliamentary representative says reduce water and municipal contributions that make those who have been building more legally feel in an unfair position. That's what we thought. Where's the scale? Where's the border? Where is that righteousness that we seek a reduction, and do not damage those who have legally built it? It's not easy to find that line. And in the same text from the same representative, we heard one and the other proposal. The water contribution was reduced by 50% in the first month, and counterpart Bacic was right, precisely in statistics it was seen that we announced amendments and amendments to the law so fell legalisation requirements. It's logical, it's a perfectly normal response of citizens, waiting to see if it gets better, it'll be easier, cheaper anyway. Although they did not fall completely because people will now be able to choose which procedure will go to the old ones who have submitted their demands or not. But what's not good to say today, and we heard it in the debate, it's going to be another law, so sometimes in 2, 5, 7 years, it's going to be easier. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It won't be easier. It will not be easier because we will prove that construction inspections will work, because we will run and destroy those who will not legalize themselves, because in the ultimate line of legal property of the EU will make us respect our laws which are not good, we ourselves need to force ourselves to do so and the team if they think so. And even some MPs thought that in two or three years, it would be cheaper and easier to legalize. He won't. Today's rules are such that when someone illegally builds there's no fine. If you don't accidentally tie yourself up in a car, if you do anything in communal order, you'll be punished, 500 kuna, 700, 2000, but if you build a 500 square-square villa, you won't be fined. Whether it was an accidental failure or a deliberate failure in this country's history, it doesn't matter to me today. What matters to me is that tomorrow those who think about it will be punished, primarily in cash, and then all the other tools that the state has to prevent further illegal construction. But who are we going to start with first? By myself. If we're fast and efficient, if we give them our licenses quickly, if we follow them quickly, if we have transparency of the licensing system, then we can ask them to get out the permits they need. If we've been waiting six months, can we be tough on these people, do we have a right? Maybe, maybe in some cases, not absolutely. So we still have a lot of room to settle down as a country and I think we should start believing in it ourselves. When it was categorized and listed here, we tried to pay attention to the purpose. The agricultural economy has also been our focus on the size of the facilities. The auxiliary facility in agriculture in the proposals for compensation that will come, we even if we have a legal house if the auxiliary facility in the yard up to 50 squares the price of legalisation is a thousand kuna. One thousand kuna, nothing more. No communal or water contribution, one paper, three paper actually. But if the villa is 70 or 100 meters from the sea and if it's over 400 square meters, it's not a social case. If the economic activity is to this extent, then the documentation will be quickly obtained which is more complicated and the compensation that is 50 or 80 times higher than that mentioned in the agricultural facility. And that categorization is so, in this way and directed and pictured. And we heard today say don't let legalization on cultural or aquatic goods. It is a proposal from the conservatives and Croatian waters. There are objects of theirs that we should legalize, there are objects of some that really don't mind performing the functions of Croatian waters that say we say allow the option, conditional legalization. Today we heard here in a debate where parole isn't good. I personally think in the proposal it's good to put the conditions. People, if anyone knows what needs to be legalized at a cultural age or water well, then I guess it's people who deal with water, waterways, water economy. I can't know it as a minister better than them, they've been in all this for so many years, so I guess I'll take their advice and put it on condition, and their advice was to put it conditionally, to tell us what's good, which is not, and... We haven't heard in the debate put conditions for the road, for the traffic corridor. [[You don't understand.]] That's not where we put the condition, as we're not going to, at least this government will certainly not allow the legalization of illegal facilities in a national park. Someone here mentioned we'll legalize Brijuni. I don't need to talk casually, there were just a few non-serious sentences, everything else was smart and systematically spoken for by this speaker about this law, and I'm glad to hear it. But to say that we are going to legalize something in Brijuni simply isn't true if the law is read. Not even on Marian because that's not true either. It was either not read well or was not well informed or appeared unseriously, but there will never be legalized legal objects in the national park or in the nature park, and it can't be on traffic corridors because traffic is traffic. And another, perhaps two actually sentences finally, that practice tells us that we express doubts about the realization, they changed, they appeared and that we should start to believe. I really think the time has come for us to start believing in our system. He's more orderly than he was 10 years ago, more orderly than he was 30 years ago, but he's not who we want him to be. But if we're going to ask here today as ministers, deputies, as Parliamentarians, to question my doubts and beliefs that tomorrow will be more orderly and better, so how are we going to restore that faith to the citizens tomorrow, whether in two years or five, so it's irrelevant that the government, that they can start believing in their country that they're going to be more orderly, and that's what they want. And that's why we can really compete more for some reason at local, regional or national authorities to point out that we don't trust others and give negative energy to citizens, I think we should have a game in some other values, which they'll trust more, and not who they'll no longer be untrusted. The purpose of this law is not to stop illegal construction, it doesn't say anything. Irregular construction, as I was saying at the outset, will be stopped by amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, we will stop them with the effective work of building inspection, stop them in the ultimate line, and with the collapse we didn't start with now because we didn't have the possibility, we didn't give ourselves the right selective destruction of 31 thousand. When we entered the Ministry, they asked me if we wanted to crash, I say where to go from 31 thousand, who's the first, who's the last, because it's Istria or Dubrovnik, or it's Osijek, is it the size of the building, we want the most, the lowest, from which street to start, what criteria. Who is he who will selectively tear down half the street, half won't, this village yes, this village no, this apartment yes or no. This Caesar I do not want to be, and that is why we have first defined the rules of conduct, and since the 9th month of those who do not respect today's rules of conduct, we must show them that they must do so. Once again, I finally thank you for a very constructive debate. The debate itself has shown that the very serious problem is control, protection, illegal construction, the territory of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian illegal construction, and I hope that we will bring some of this debate and future debate before the second reading of the amendments and that you will help us to adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10259	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10260	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. In your presentation, you referred to the assessment of the proposal of this law, Mr. Minister, saying that a broad public debate was conducted, that it was not really known how many illegally built objects there were, and we heard from fellow Vuksic that there were about 400 thousand, which means every 10. The Croat has an illegally built facility. You also said that those objects that cannot be legalized should certainly be destroyed, that the law would allow the issue of electronic permits. The problem must also be solved for the protection of our space in the future, which we certainly support. He won't forgive anyone, it's a broader scope of legalization, a reduction in the fee of business facilities, a simplification for building inspectors, which is very important. The conditions are created for a lasting solution to the problem, however, a sense of righteousness or as one colleague says, it is easier to be good than just, and injustice is a sin that crys out in heaven. True, here it pleases the lawless builders, in fact asking them to legalize their illegal objects compared to those who did it in a legal way. That's what Mr. Bacic was talking about on behalf of the club. But we are discussing this bill at a very awkward time because Minister of Finance Mr. Linic announced taxing all the properties that are not used because he says they are rich people, and you know there are still those who pay credits for their properties, and now they should expect a tax on the same. I, for example, come from the Imot area where citizens have bloody earned their money abroad, and now they're going to pay taxes on it. Perhaps this statement can slow down the legalization of illegally built objects, I have no doubt about it. And Mr. Cain also spoke of these lawless builders as playing cats and mice, perhaps waiting for something that might never be expected. What interests me and the citizens of the Split-Dalmatia County where there is a large number of illegally built objects are two things I ask you to answer. First, you said that solutions would be issued, or permits without paying municipal contributions to local self-government units because they didn't actually count on those revenues. I agree, I agree with that. However, if that must be the case, and in practice we know that when citizens get permission or confirmation of the main project they usually give up paying municipal contributions to local self-government units. So is it possible to make one temporary solution to the payment deadline for the municipal contribution until they pay a complete, total amount to the units of local self-government and then get a permanent solution for these facilities. Maybe we should think about this. And secondly, please explain to me the article of the 35th of this law, which says: "The Katastrian office records the completed building, that is, its completed part of the cataract operator according to a special regulation that regulates the cadastre if the building, or part of it, has been decided on the state of play." This is very important because of the following, the question is whether after obtaining a solution to the state of play, there will be a further payment of the geodetic elaborate plan because it is an undrawn building or whether the Katastrian Office will do so on official duty without additional cost for the party, which is very important, already paid geodetic plan. You are aware that a geodetic recording is first paid, and then a registration is paid to the register for obtaining the ownership list. ... if you need to do this means an additional 3 to 5 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And certainly, regardless of the rules in the cataster, this law should make it clear that the cadastrian offices are doing so on official duty because then it is important to save and money and time. At present, energy and time are being lost to the construction and implementation of geodetic elaborates in catastrian offices, and only one move of feathers can significantly improve and speed things up, and it is important to say with a reduction in costs for the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10261	Thank you. On this exhibit, we have a replica of the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kolara.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, first I lifted the plate correcting the incorrect quote, but then I asked back for a replica to a colleague if he had any needs to answer. I don't think it's a good thing we're sending a message asking someone with this law to legalize their facilities. That's not a good message. We give opportunity to people who for various reasons went into illegal construction to legalize their facilities. It was also a tendency of that law that was passed last year in the Parliament and this is what we agreed to in some way improved version of the law to allow people to legalise their facilities. But it's not good to send a message to beg. We give the citizens of the Republic of Croatia the opportunity to legalise their facilities and the minister has sent a very clear message of what will be after this law is passed. We must believe for ourselves and after that we must convince the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the rule of law will work. In some segments, however, it will not happen overnight, but the message leaving this assembly must be clear. As for the blood-earned money, most of the vast majority of the Republic's citizens make their money fairly regardless of which part of the Republic of Croatia they come from. But no matter how bloody and hard we earn it doesn't mean I can break the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10263	We'll hear the answer to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, my colleague Kolar may have misunderstood me, but that's actually what it looks like because, by the law of value, it's actually, as far as I understand the minister was concerned, there were only 6,200 requests, of which a thousand and some solutions were made. Clearly, these lawless builders need to be asked to legalize their facilities. That's what I meant. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10265	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished deputies, fellow MPs. Here, in my brief discussion, I will also try to look back at illegal construction and with some of my thoughts and suggestions that this law may be ultimately more complex. In order for Croatia to have a happy ending, it takes decades and, of course, that we all together, and, in particular, the executive power, must agree with such a legislative unambiguous, clear, clear, that this issue is somehow being put to the end. Everything that seemed so far obviously did not yield results, and this also clearly shows the frantic fact that the minister himself said at the beginning, which worries me that we cannot determine how many illegal objects we have in the Republic of Croatia, whether we can even determine the number of housing units. And that's the question. We had a census last year where we're sure to find out exactly how many domestic animals, pets, cars, so everything that's moving we can find out and we'll have about some numbers, but what's in the space we can't find out. That's one way of thinking for all of us because I think that's the only thing that can be determined, but the fact is that either because of the lack of care of the state or because of the lack of service within the local self-government, we don't know the exact data today. I think that's the part that should actually start to make this problem kind of work. Whether this is our specificity or not, we have heard that there are countries that have no illegal construction and that these are obviously arranged systems within which an individual has no space to engage in such a procedure. The fact is, it exists with us. I believe that even some other measures, not the very laws on spatial planning or construction, and not all other legal regulations related to that part may have made them legal and more legal than the law itself. Here I will set an example of the Household Activity Act where you should practically not be engaged in catering activities if you do not have a legal structure. However, we have turned that upside down, and here we have the fact that in illegally built buildings we can deal with catering activities. Whether we rent apartments, whether we rent rooms doesn't matter. It is difficult, and it is clear to us, that we can agree on all this ingenuity of the Croatian man in one article of the law and everything that has been illegally built in any area of the Republic of Croatia we can agree on in one article of the law and then say that this is the final solution because it tried in 1968, but after that, there was a mess in the space again. Who's the lawless builder anyway? Why is he engaged in such an act? He's getting into it, and I think it's kind of a sociological issue, which is his system of repression, and in this case it's an inspection. construction inspection or perhaps a lack of state or public care, a unit of self-government locale, that makes it possible. It enables him because he simply has no control and that is why we cannot determine the number of illegal objects we in the Republic of Croatia have. He is aware in advance that these repressive measures may not be valid for him in some subsequent period because he knows that these measures are ineffective, that the process is long, that they are selective and ultimately indecisive. We still had 30,000 solutions today on removing illegally built objects, but in this area nothing happens, these objects are still in space, no one destroys them and the system continues. Can we think that way? We've heard that we have only 120 and some building inspectors, when we put it in relation to the story we have, that it's about 300, 400 thousand illegal objects. The question arises, can this number of people at all, whether they can physically arrive at all, do any work except perhaps at present establish illegality in building a certain facility. Now it's season, we had a law that's in force, we have a law on spatial planning and construction. Here in my little township, we have an illegal construction in the center of town today. Irregular construction, the building inspector has been informed, has not arrived, and today it is 21/06. It's a shame that people are building a store in the middle of the city that everyone sees, and everyone knows that it's illegal, there's no table, there's no paper, there's no paper and it's all working and it's building, and we're talking about legalizing illegal construction. I come from the island and it's a particularly close topic to me, because the fact is, let me say that ineffectiveness we saw in the case where the Chief State Inspector was building us illegally. He was removed after that, but it was a message to everyone, gentlemen, doing nothing will happen to you. And of course there's a system of injustice, and we all kind of like to talk about justice. How did this illegal building on the islands come about? It came from the season season, to make some money, something would always add up. Even legal facilities that started with neat construction permits were created at one point as such, and in the next season in the next few seasons they became illegal, they spread balconies, they increased capacity and then of course they could be built, but they could also be rented. You have a case today, I say, that I warn you, that the Tourism Offices provide solutions to categorizations on illegal facilities. And then we're surprised that we're renting cottages, holiday homes, that we have a lot of friends, and that tourism doesn't give what's expected of it. The fact is that the most beautiful parts of the island of forests and waves have become a space with thousands of illegal objects in which we live, but in which we earn money. Then it's a double violation of the law. We had the fact that, as a state, we invested a lot of money in the infrastructure and that water and drain systems were built, but precisely because of illegal objects, people simply can't attach to these water lines, they can't connect to these systems. We've come to a vacuum where people who haven't had water in decades have it in front of the house today, and they can't use it because they're in an illegal facility. For this reason, I believe that I have already made certain remarks on certain articles on the committee. I believe that during this whole legalisation process, it would take a large part of the local self-government that requires an increase in the percentage of funding, i.e. obtaining a certain benefit under this law. Obligate it to be the foundation that will first try to determine the areas that are illegal, their number, the surface, so that they can then participate and perceive in this part of the area that is legally and wanted. I think they'll do it, because it's in their interest, of course, that the state as a partner must give its share. The question that I am being asked is also very important, and that is whether in these 250 working days, until 30.06. next year we can and whether we are ready physically within our urbanist offices in cities and counties, to receive 200 thousand demands. The fact is, here's how we've done it in the last few months, only 10 grand. Is that physically possible? Do we have enough people, do we have enough material resources to do that? The fact is, and it will show the results next year, that it will be very, very difficult. My remarks on certain articles were made yesterday, only to repeat those that bother me most, which is that we allow construction in forests, economic intentions and protected forests with special purpose, but we do not allow inside tourist areas in which construction is allowed. I think we should think about it, because in these areas, we have a lot of illegal construction, and if some other objects are already allowed, I think it would be fair, once we've entered the woods to do it inside those zones. And what might be even more unfair is that those who are recorded on time, who have been reported by someone, here I think that's what's important to me to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10267	Well, you won't be able to say that anymore, because your time is up. The word is received by the esteemed representative of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10268	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry and colleagues and colleagues. So here's a few of my thoughts about this bill on dealing with illegally built buildings. In fact, we heard here today that the exact number of such objects I don't know, are estimated to have about 150 thousand completely illegally built objects, that there are still about 150 thousand objects that have somehow begun to build, so to speak, with permission, and then they ended up many, many over the gauge of that permit, so we consider them illegal. So, in any case, there are too many of them and that is one problem that needs to be solved in this country and therefore any attempt to legalise such objects should be supported at the beginning. It should be that these problems are solved because an illegal object is a problem for everyone and for the state, the problem is to the one who has the facility because other than being able to live in it cannot be used in any other way in terms of mortgages on it, processing, etc. etc. So this bill that we have today in principle is good, but we have some remarks on it, and we think that it could be improved with certain additions, improved and therefore it is good that today is in the first reading that the minister and the people who work on it will be able to also be able to respect all the discussions we have heard here today. The genealogy of these illegally built objects is empty it draws roots long ago, and even from that former land when the property tax seemed to me 45% which was very much and should have been paid before it started to build, so it's clear that people, in order to avoid that cost, built in necessity and illegal but certainly the reason why the spatial plans were often not brought in in time I think it's one of the great reasons, and the man wants to have or buy his own land, wants to build a house on it and there's no spatial plan, and he has to live. What's he doing now? Clearly, then he goes to build an illegal facility or especially in Dalmatia is the problem of land books. There is, there are land books in one such state that simply these property-law objects cannot be solved, and then it is not possible to get and get very easily to the building permit or because of the costs of a complicated procedure etc. etc. And all in all, we have today the condition that we have, which is not good and that needs to be solved. I would in this law, someone was already talking about it, but I would, in any case, separate those illegal objects that people were building, someone said out of necessity, but which people were building to live in and make themselves some sort of object where they put themselves and their family and those who built buildings to make money on them. For example, who built apartments illegally don't know 100, 200, 50, I don't know how many meters from the sea. So it's not the same category. And I don't think the law should treat those two categories the same. I say one thing is when someone makes a house out of need, because there's simply no place to live, and they can't get permission for the reason I used to talk, and the other is when someone does it for some other purpose commercially, etc. etc. But everything needs to be settled. A colleague, Bacic, while serving as minister, passed the Law on the Treatment of Legally Built Buildings, and he came into force on 10.8.2011. Someone says a little request has been received so far. I don't think it's a little bit of a request received, because we need to know one thing that county offices under that law practically started working a few months ago because they waited to get an orthophoto map and then they could have started acting under that law so I wouldn't say it was a small number of requests. Clearly, it's always good for him to be bigger. And let's do everything we can to make it bigger and make it even faster. But that information is not small for that reason, either, I said, before they waited for those orthophotos, and they couldn't act properly before that. So that law has already taken down one nightmare, I would say to those people who have such objects, and on the other hand, it's headed towards solving this condition that it is. But well, that was so small in general, and now specifically on this bill and some remarks and some thinking that I think might be improved until the second reading. First of all, the categorization of buildings in four groups towards the building gross surface of the building that I would like to be, seems to me unnecessaryly complicating the content and making documentation for these groups of buildings. Secondly, the procedure for issuing a solution to the state of play has been amended and is fully unspecified in this law, it should be corrected in relation to the existing spatial plans or there is no difference in the procedure in cases where an illegal building was built in accordance with a spatial plan or where that building is not in conformity with spatial plans. Is one thing that seems to me otherwise in this law but also in the basic law on spatial regulation which may be a little questionable is the participation of parties in the process. The participation of the parties in the procedure has been formalised in such a way that it remains in fact very unlikely that they will take part in the procedure at all, since the call for examination of the documentation is left on that illegal building or particle or advertising board of the competent administrative authority. I think this is a question in this law, but I also said before the basic law on spatial regulation one big to say, one big one, that it slows down the process and we should find some model of how to do it and in that law, and this one doesn't slow down procedures or investment when it comes to new buildings going here in legalization when it comes to legalization. Now one thing that's also been talked about. I also think you look, it's not right that someone who legally goes to look for papers for their facility, goes to build some sort of object that he pays a immediate municipal contribution, so before he gets the papers he has to pay a communal contribution. Let's say it's okay or it's not right let's let it go now, and this other one going to legalize his object and he can pay it later. I think it's supposed to be either one way or another, but not to put it in fact, that's where the question of citizens' equality arises and before the law. I'm going legally to look for everything and I have to pay right now, and my neighbor is going to legalize the facility and he has to pay later. I think we should even it out, now how come I don't know one way or the other. I'm sure the mayors and mayors of the municipalities would like to do so before because otherwise incomes are reduced, etc. And I think the charging would be much better if it were before. Then ask God who will do it, when and how. But in any case, we should even it out. For houses, let's say objects over 400 square meters need to be applied and signed, statements of all professions I don't know electrician, statistician, leather. It is asked who will be the one to put his signature on a statement guaranteeing that everything is made in accordance with the applicable laws if there is no document from which it can be seen, for example. what is the prom, which is where it is installed, etc., etc. But since I don't have time to see more of what I wanted to say. Well, maybe just in the end. The minister said and I would not agree with him about it, so for objects built within archaeological sites or areas of cultural and historical integrity or water-good facilities. I think the law should define the exact rules of the game, or the exact criteria. And not to let any reference go anywhere, to Zadar or anywhere else to decide. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10269	Thank you very much. The intention to replicate was expressed by MP Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10270	So here you are, Mr. Calmeta, mentioning one part of that story, it refers to the smaller part, which is those larger buildings, those buildings that are at sea, and those people who actually have enough money to solve that problem. Most of this story applies, however, to objects of people who do not have much money, built-up facilities and agricultural facilities. It's still the largest part of these facilities. Especially when it comes to 150 thousand illegal objects in agriculture, most of which are stables, small agricultural facilities of individual households, these are people in '64. I mean all legalized and from that '64. It continues to operate these stables and these agricultural facilities and no one has ever requested any building permit for those facilities. These are small agricultural households that will be excluded practically from the incentive system unless these facilities are legalised after EU entry. The only way to legalise these small agricultural households is to simply access the free legalisation of these facilities and there is no other way. That group of objects I think will simply have to be separated, not by commercial agricultural facilities, but by small ordinary stables, stables and similar objects. And for a long time, when it comes to paying compensation for municipal and water contributions, that is, in some ways unfair to those who paid it in advance, but on the other hand, there's a problem we think is the only way. This should be further considered, given that the scope of the job to geodetics and architects will increase hundreds of times in the legalisation project to agree on a way to make their services in legalisation significantly lower than they are at current prices and could be done if this were cleverly designed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10271	The replica matches a colleague of Calmet's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10272	Well, I just wanted to say I agree with my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10273	We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I was, speaking on behalf of the club, announcing several concrete remarks and suggestions to the ministry to make such a text of the law that was more acceptable in the first reading. In the first paper in the introduction of the bill's reasoning and assessment of the state of the law, it is said that one of the reasons why the law is not valid is because the digital orthophoto map was not sufficiently accessible to the administrative authorities who are solving this procedure. It seems to me that this bill found that a digital orthophoto map would be available in the centre of the central office and in the area offices. This significantly reduces the availability of the map because it should be available in the premises of all bodies acting under this law. According to the current law, the digital orthophoto map is now less available. Another thing that seems to me to be burdensome and complicated by law enforcement is the obligation of the applicant to deliver a geodetic video. Mr. Kolar was saying something about a geodetic video. I'm going to tell you that in the Law on Stated Measurement and Real Estate Cataster in the Land Cataster Regulation, there is no concept of geodetic video in the parcel elaborat and other geodetic labs. But I heard there's going to be a change of rules, so there's going to be an institute of geodetic video. But what's not going to be good is that at first the applicant will actually have cheaper documentation when a geodetic video is asked for, but then you'll complicate it when he gets a solution about the state of play and when he starts the process of writing down his object, then he'll have to do a new elaborate again so he can work and register his object in the real estate catalogue. Therefore, the geodetic video does not have elements that can lead to the process from the beginning to the end of one exit on the ground. The second thing that I think we should do is certainly fit into the law the basic criteria that the government will be led to legalise these objects. So in our second reading, it will be clearer to us Assembly representatives how and in what way, apart from what has been said so far, it will be cheaper for the owners of housing, agricultural holdings, etc. so that it would be good to submit to the next reading and in that part a criterion which could indicate in which direction the Government really means to cheapen the legalisation process through the level of compensation for legalisation of a particular facility. It is also my view that it is not a good solution not to define parties in the process of legalisation. If illegal construction has done something wrong then in any case, it is bad that neighbors who border the plot on which an illegal illegal building is built, which may be too close to the border, which may be in high terms above all the allowed sizes from spatial plans, have indeed violated the value of the neighbouring plot. Therefore, it seems to me that the law should indeed establish the possibility for parties to the procedure to be neighbours and to be unequivocally familiar with the legalisation process of the facility so that they can clearly say in the process what they think of the facility on the one hand, and on the other hand, such a position shall be given to neighbours when it is built legally. Therefore, when you build illegally and legalize it, you do not recognize yourself as a party in the process or you are reported in a strange way to be nice, glued to an illegal object or in the seat of the body issuing the solution, while in the regular procedure of the party in the procedure which the neighbor is recognised for participation in the procedure on one hand. And on the other hand, it is not good that the administrative body that issues the solution will have to perform the eyewitnesses twice, once it advertises the eyewitnesses, and other times when the eyewitness is actually performing. And one important thing, I think it would be good to think about it, namely the law provides for the inability to legalise in strict reserves, for example in the Mali Stone Nature Reserve, in the Bay of Maloston. Now, the spatial plans of the Ston Municipality have been enabled to build on the mainland part of that strict reserve. We will not be able to legalize an illegal object by formulating the law, and if we bring it down, then the owner of the property could file a claim and could build it. So it seems to me that the formulation should be amended in such a way that legalisation is prohibited in those areas if it is not contrary to the existing spatial plan of the municipality or city, because on the one hand we prohibit the legalisation of an object built in accordance with the spatial plan, and on the other hand we allow it to be built on the basis of a valid spatial plan. It's one small illogicality, it's also been in the past law, so I just want to warn you that we make that change in a way that we can make it possible anywhere where building is possible under the applicable regulations to enable legalization under this law. And I would just briefly look back at the division of a demanding, less demanding, simple and auxiliary structure. It seems to me that between the demanding building represented by a building larger than 400 meters of building gross surface and a building less than 400 meters of material difference in documentation there is no difference. I agree with the promoter that for several housing facilities, for public purpose facilities it is good to establish specific conditions which are among other things met by the authorised architect, builder, electrician, engineer, etc., etc. for facilities of public purpose. But for residential buildings that have 418 meters of square gross building surfaces and those buildings that have 380 squares, there's no difference, and there's a significant change in that documentation. Therefore, it would be good to make that distinction between several stable units, between the facilities of public use and housing because there is indeed a small difference in the building with 360 squares and 420, and it seems to me that this building that has more than 400 squares is significantly burdened with the documentation and thus to the owner of the illegally built facility this procedure... So these were kind of concrete examples or suggestions, so until the second reading, if possible, it would be good for some of them to be respected. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10275	Thank you, too. Word now gets Danes Shaw's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10276	Thank you very much, Vice President. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I want to get involved in this debate because I expect the adoption of this law to simplify and cheapen the legalisation process of these illegally built buildings. Allow me very briefly to refer to the content of a few of these articles, first of all, paragraph 4 of Article 6 tells me that it enables legalisation of water-good facilities with the consent of Croatian waters, which is absolutely fine, I welcome it. However, paragraph 2 of Article 7 states that consent, meaning the consent of the Croatian Waters and Article 6(4) of this Act, can be given if the illegally built building is not built against the conditions of use of water goods according to specific rules on water. I would ask until the second reading that this matter be verified, clear, that it would not be possible for this Article 7 or paragraph 2 in that article to prevent the application referred to in the preceding article. If there really are such problems, then perhaps Croatian waters should or should be adapted in a certain way to the provisions of their regulations and laws that this can be legalised. This is very important for the area of eastern Croatia, i.e. eastern Slavonia and Baranja, since in the blue area of the river Danube, Drava and Karasica there are a large number of houses, cottages built by people, and there was no possibility of legalizing it. I would also like to draw further attention to the content of Article 25 of the Law on the transfer of competences for the adoption of compensation solutions from county and large cities to local self-government. I'm not sure that certain local self-governments will be able to do this job well enough and efficiently, and you might want to think about it a little bit. Finally, I also express and give suggestions as was the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government that, in accordance with the content of Article 31 of the schedule, the distribution of these funds in any case goes in such a way as to ensure that the minimum 50% of these funds belong to local self-government because, finally, in the case of construction, the payment of various contributions, etc. and construction land arrangements are the biggest obligations on local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10277	Thank you. Thank you for your rational use of time. The right to a 10-minute hearing is now being given to the distinguished representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10278	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Given that everything is ready for the vote, I will try to be very brief in my debate. Of course, we have discussed these aspects of justice and injustice of this new law on colloquial legalization as well as the existing law already discussed in two readings on the occasion of the adoption of the existing law. Of course, it is necessary to break this in your own brainstorms a feeling of terrible injustice that it actually suits those who disobeyed the law, and those citizens who lived and worked neatly in accordance with the law and regulations are punished. But of course equally since the state did not get the strength of some forced repressive measures, it should be resolved to fix the situation in space. Of course, this occasion should take care of the social component, so it is not equal to those who really built their roof over their heads and those who acted arrogantly and became rich in illegal construction without respecting any Croatian regulations. But here are the differences with the existing law, some should indeed be welcomed, and these are simplification of procedures and above all allowing the transfer of authority of bodies that decide from those more burdensome offices to less burdened because at first sight it is clear to all that in certain parts of our country, illegal construction is not equally widespread and that the drastic difference in the burden of office work in local and regional self-government will be. I therefore particularly welcome this provision as well as the transfer of competences in the case of this financial collection of claims and keeping further records of this to the bodies for the municipal economy of local units. So that's good. I wouldn't talk about the fee cut. It should certainly be taken into account for those who really cannot pay for it, according to all these agricultural facilities that the colleague spoke of by 150 thousand illegal agricultural facilities which are not for commercial purposes. There should certainly be a special approach. But it seems to me that from the explanation this one point that says "the application of the law extends to buildings built on all areas outside the construction area in the protected coastal area of the sea, in all categories of agricultural land, etc., etc.". I'm asking the Proposer to think about it. Indeed, this wide-ranging legalisation, namely, in 2004 or 2005, when the first regulation on the protection of the coastal belt was passed, I happened to be the mayor of Zadar in... At a conference of Adriatic cities, there were clapping praises for Croatia precisely in relation to the protection of the most valuable resource, which is the coast of the Adriatic Sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And obviously here it is today in 2012 we, we admit by this, have lost the battle so widely stretching that legalization into the entire coastal area. The rest is protected only by maritime well-being, and this is a question of establishing borders how and where. Let us not forget that much of the coast has not yet established the limits of maritime goods and still areas along the coast and on the coast have not been drawn and included in land books as a maritime good since the limit of this maritime goods has not been established. And here I agree with the note that this issue of water - good construction should also be considered very, very carefully. And I'd also like to warn you about article 6 of the bill, and that's what I've been talking about on the board, but the promoters have answered me, but I think we should be more specific about it. In fact, it is an article that determines where an illegally built building cannot be legalized and, by reading all these sub-assemblies, I still believe that municipal buildings should be mentioned in one of these sub-assemblies. It is said in the first paragraph that these are transport, energy and water buildings, but then in subparagraph 4 or 5, where public areas for social purposes, sports, health, culture, etc., religious ones should be mentioned there, however, because other municipal buildings, other than these water and energy buildings, exist, are all those that serve to carry out municipal activities under the Law of the Community Economy and should therefore be classified. I also warned that the provision of Article 6(6) should also be sterilised in a way to go to paragraph 1 which determines what is being dealt with by this law or what is the case with which it does not apply. And one more thing, we're talking about simplifying and shortening procedures, that is, the procedure itself. I would like to warn you that in this brief application so far, what has stalled certain proceedings is, above all, a notice to the parties which is somehow tried to edit this proposal, but I do not think it is the happiest thing for remote areas and islands. And here's what I'm warning you, and I'm asking the Proposer to consider the following, so every video of the state of play is going to be checked out on the ground. So, it's an eyewitness. This is an extremely expensive, burdensome and long-term procedure, so I give one suggestion that if the footage of the existing state, or architectural footage is done by a licensed architectural office that he then assumes responsibility for what he submits to the office, and not that every such video still has to go to check on the ground. Therefore, if a person has a licence, it means that the work done must be responsible for the state body, and if it is caught in an incorrectly submitted architectural recording, it should then be punishment and sanctions, loss of that licence. Here I think that way we could speed up, simplify this process further. So I think my colleagues are distracting me because they're in a hurry to vote, and then I'm gonna end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10279	We will conclude an individual debate by correcting the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10280	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I understand, this and the ambitions of MPs and MPs to vote as soon as possible and thus fulfil their duties, I understand the good intensities of the legislators of this law, but I must intervene on one thing. In the light of why this law is passed in the opening section, it is said that this law extends to those areas that are listed in the UNESCO World Heritage List. I don't know if any colleagues and colleagues have heard of the Dresdren case. So this is contrary to the international convention signed by the Republic of Croatia. The UNESCO Convention on Protection, on the World Heritage List, does not allow construction in the UNESCO protection zone. So let's say for the Split Riviera, if Mr. Jurjevic might be listening, he needed the previous consent of UNESCO. That's why it couldn't be built on the Pilates because it's a buffer zone of UNESCO's protected area of Dubrovnik and it's not there to build. Therefore, these parts of this proposal are contrary to the international convention that Croatia signed. I'm saying this because of the famous Dresdren case when Dresdren was kicked off UNESCO's list of protected cultural goods, the world list, because it was built a bridge, not in the zone, but in the buffer zone of UNESCO's protected locality. The UNESCO zone is listed, therefore, in the introductory part of the law. However, Article 6 states that an illegally built building can be legalized within spatial borders, an immovable cultural goods. It is simply impossible, this common sense says, because the immovable cultural well-being can be a palace, it can be a church, it can be a Croatian Parliament, it can be the Church of St. Marka, as well as any conservator, will give permission to have such intervention on a motionless culturally good mutilation. It's beyond common sense. What does it mean if someone builds a kiosk here in the yard of the Croatian Parliament, that it can be legalized according to the resolution of a conservative department? It simply has nothing to do with, also in the new bill of law they completely dropped archaeological zones or archaeological parks, them as if they were gone, as if they didn't exist. I kindly ask the legislators to deal with this part, to deal with this part very seriously. I'm not saying that you can't in a zone that's under UNESCO's protection, that you can't intervene construction, you can, but only if the project was verified by UNESCO as was the case with the Split Riva, for example. And only in case such a project does not penetrate the integral criteria by which the zone is listed in the world cultural heritage list. Therefore, this is contrary to the convention and can cause serious consequences, so I am well-intentioned. And another thing that I want to warn very briefly, very briefly, is that some of our citizens who have bought an apartment on the island of Murter have got a property list of what investors have all the connections in that building. Two years later, they discovered that the building was built under one building permit and that it was not adequate for that building permit. And that simply their object as such is not legal. They must now as a party in the process as owners, apply for legalization of the facility and again as owners of the facility, it is one villa with multiple apartments, more than 400 square meters, they bear the costs of legalisation. So they've been cheated twice, once by investors and once by us because they're going to have to pay in some way. I want to say again that I am warning this part, I don't know if the Ministry of Culture has shown itself on this bill, if, if there was no objection to this, then the Ministry of Culture is violating the convention for which it is, among other things, competent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10281	Thank you very much. We will now hear another final, final address of the Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Mrs. Anke, Mr. Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10282	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I'm going to briefly just try to finalize and say the topics that were mentioned here. We were with this law on all committees, there was also debated and already some remarks that were made there are already being built into a bill of law that we will prepare for a second reading. So there were several topics that were listed here in individual discussions and in the debates of the representatives' clubs. The first topic is to increase the number of buildings that can be legalized. So this bill really increases the number of buildings that can be legalized, but it was also from other professions. So when it comes to the possibility of legalising buildings that are protected from the aspect of specific rules on the protection of cultural heritage, the proposal for a provision of the article came from the Ministry of Culture, it is installed and it is referred all the time to a special regulation. So, even as it is possible to build new buildings in these protected areas in accordance with a special regulation, and by calling for provisions of a special regulation legalisation is possible. Of course it is a very sensitive 100 - metre construction theme, it is protected 100 meters from the coastal belt. I personally worked on the Barcelona Convention when it was adopted, so I consulted my colleagues from the map and saw what was said in relation to our special regulation and, based on the consultations, such a decision was in this law. But absolutely it's a very sensitive subject and we're going to check it out once again with all the appropriate options and see if it's really the number of buildings that it is or someone else. The second topic is the topic of chambers and the topic of division of buildings in four groups according to demand. We are through public debates already mentioned by the minister and round tables that were mentioned here on several occasions talking to all the chambers. I'd especially like to take the geodetics here. So, the law will be, we have already drawn up the parallel and as soon as the law passes the procedure that is in the Croatian Parliament we will amend the rule and the geodetic video of the derivative will be an integral part of the elaborate for further enrollment in the cadastre and further. So this discussion about the fact that we've been collecting, we've been keeping an eye on it, we've agreed with the geodetic chamber that they've given these remarks, and that's exactly how we've defined it at their request. So, the parties won't pay double, they'll pay for legalisation, and all they'll have to do is do the same lab for enrollment in the catastran and grantovnica. As far as the Chamber of Architects and builders are concerned, there are, of course, conflicting views, and this proposal is an opportun, but we're going to think about it just as much as we're going to see. The third topic mentioned here was on several occasions on the committees of the parties in the process, party participation in the process. There were some good suggestions, and we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going, we're going, we're going, going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, we're going, I'm glad that Mrs. Lovrin mentioned the work of the office, because this law has one newspaper, which is that we have the opportunity to transfer objects from the office that we don't do to offices that have less demands so that we can be more expedient. The topic also mentioned are detention fees, i.e. communal and water contributions. So there is no solution without compensation, the payment of the first maintenance fee, and the one that issues the solution, so after we issue a solution to the state of play, it is then delivered to municipalities, or units of local self-government to calculate the municipal and water contribution, and that is the topic where we have both one and the second proposal and we will think about it a little bit more. But I think we'll still stay with this kind of proposal. And the theme that was here on several occasions mentioned is the division of fees. So we've divided 50% of the states, 20% of the local self-government units, and 30% of the working offices. Surely once again after the proposals that were with the parliamentary committees, we'll think about it and see what it is. What is the fact that this law could be effective to the end must have two things. Therefore, it must have a compensation regulation and must have an amended rules on geodetic affairs, which will be defined by this elaborate. For another reading, we have both prepared. For a second reading when we are in the second reading we will tell you something about the regulation and on committees we will also present the regulation which is that you can see in particular what amounts it is, even though I have this work material. It seemed to me that this was a little premature, since the regulation was only made by the government on the basis of a decision in the Parliament. We were waiting for the first reading to see what suggestions and remarks were so that we could also understand the regulation in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-21-0.u10283	I would like to thank the esteemed Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, first reading, P.Z. No. 95, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on the treatment of illegally built buildings is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Who's in favour of the proposed conclusions? Who's against it? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes for and 31 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
