ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7477	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. We'll be working till 12:00, and then we'll vote on the debated points, so I'm asking the club presidents to ensure the presence of the representatives so that we can carry out our representative's duty to which the citizens have elected us. We move to - Report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2010 The report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 10. Law on development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Prof. Dr.sc. Vesna Pusic, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7478	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs for letting me say a few words about the 2010 report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad. This is just another such report on official development aid submitted to the Croatian Assembly, which in itself says it is one relatively new institution or new institute in Croatia, including foreign and general politics. The second fact that you see it at first sight and it says a lot is that this is the 2010 report. I think the fact that the 2010 Official Development Assistance Report is now being submitted is about several problems or open issues that we have in this area. It's obviously too late first. It is obvious second that since the reason for the fact that a 2010 report is now being submitted to the 2010 report is the fact that data from different resolutions have been collected on how some resolutions acted in this official development aid until October last year is talking about a problem that really exists and is embedded, and that is the absence of coordination, i.e. the absence of joint planning and official development aid where, at the end of this year, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as a coordinator of what has been done and done, but there is not one structured joint planning that we believe is also one lesson that needs to be drawn from this and should simply be done. There is no systematic data on the real implementation of all these projects, so since the data on what was at all and what was invested in 2010 were collected by the 10th month of last year then, of course, there is no record of whether these projects were actually made. So to what extent they're realized, 50%, 70%, entirely etc. It's also one element to work on and change. And an additional one, unfortunately, will be this report because it will be for 2011. So that's how it's gonna be. But despite these and many other problems that I am sure that all those who went to read in detail have seen this report in particular the problems that exist in the tables in that large part, the fat ones, the tables with the funded projects. So great inequality, great fragmentation, a series of problems that can be seen. There remains one fact, which is that in these few years and this is one indicator of which Croatia has transformed from the recipient of development aid to the donor of development aid and it is in itself, in my opinion, a very significant fact. It is also a positive fact not only from the point of view of the indicators of development, from the point of view of the fact that we have aligned in this respect and with European norms because it is also an integral part of one of the chapters that we have negotiated but is a positive fact and because we have one form of intervention in poverty, we have introduced one form of the principle of solidarity into our own policy and in this case, in particular, in its own foreign policy which certainly has a huge space for progress. So it can be very much fixed there, but as a principle, in my opinion, it's positive, it's developed and it needs to be worked on. So, regardless of the observations we have had and see in this concept or distinction if you want in the concept, I find it unusual that such a policy or such a single model has been put in place in the first place and that it has started to work in that direction. This official development aid as it is officially called, so this concept of development aid reflects to a large extent, and if you analyze it a little bit, you will be able to and I think that moment also recognises who society is, so what kind of society that development aid is thus conjecturing, what it wants and in which direction it operates and in its international communication. And it is perfectly logical and obvious that this development aid, except, of course, intervenes according to different criteria in those parts of the world in which it is needed or according to those segments of the population for which this country's policy is estimated to be necessary, therefore, that development aid also shows some kind of foreign policy nature and must be in the function of the country's foreign policy. As I said, this official development aid is also part of European policies and is part of European values, and it is also a very specific component of Chapter 30, as well as an integral part of the EU's common foreign and security policy. And among other things, from the moment we join the EU, we will pay serious money through joint European institutions for the development aid that the EU is deploying across different parts of the world, one large part in Sub-Saharan Africa. Not to get into the details now, but it also needs to and will have consequences for our foreign policy, for example, the concept of our team in that part of the world so that we can present ourselves there because a lot of our money will go through joint European projects. The European Commission's view that the allocations for this official development aid should be 0.17% of gross national income by 2010, and 0.33% of national income by 2015. Now what's our situation? The official total disbursement for the development aid of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 was 473 million 641 thousand 287 kuna and 0.15% of gross national income, which would be almost at that level foreseen by the Commission of 0.17%. This amount has been allocated to 791 development projects and the International Development Co-operation and humanitarian assistance programme. This amount I mentioned was a 369,88% increase compared to 2009, so over 300%, 369% increased development aid compared to 2009. Now why is that? This is because, for 2010 development aid, what we gave our neighbours were translated into Croatian. That's what six states gave us. These countries are BiH, Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Albania. We have calculated or calculated that this translation is worth 8m euros, and this has multiplied by 6, so 48m euros in translations that have been given to neighbours or countries in the region. Translations certainly should have given it no doubt, but the fact that these translations were given then created in this way a single picture which I would have said is conditional on increasing development aid. If we exempt those 48 million as much as we calculated that 8 times 6 so the legal gain of 6 countries, if we exempt it, then the development aid in 2010 was 17 million euros, which was de facto a drop of 6.17% compared to 2009 or 0.04 gross national income, so something further than that set by the European Commission. There are a number of reasons for this situation, or the fact that if we exclude a legal gain which is a one-time situation and a special situation, and we can discuss how and how to calculate it, so if we exempt this segment, there are, of course, several reasons why this situation is on the agenda. On the one hand, this is the result of a particular concept that, of course, each government has the right, so in terms of the concept of development aid that the government and the parliamentary majority had in 2010, development aid existed, and the concept of the government had the right to exercise and to first set up and then implement in accordance with what was estimated. It was relevant during that period of 2010 and you will see it in your data and humanitarian crises in the world and there Croatia intervened with a total of 4 million 956 thousand kunas in 4 or 5 countries. A short something about territorial and thematic priorities that can be read from this 2010 report. Territorial development aid in 2010 is mainly directed at countries in the region, as follows. Bosnia and Herzegovina 76% of the total development aid if the legal gain granted to all countries is excluded. If you take only the part that is development aid without that legal gain, 31% if the value of translation of legal gain is added to other countries in the region, then Kosovo, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania. In 2010 there is also an unusually interesting and positive example of assistance in countries where Croatia is present in peacekeeping missions, primarily in Afghanistan, where it has been intervened with several projects such as. Home of health in Lajoba, which uses 23,000 users, construction of a water pump, construction or equipment, or protection with one school wall for girls who made it easier for the school to function. A very interesting course and a very cheap life, unusually important sewing course for prisoners who got their sewing machines at the end. Mostly women who wouldn't have had a way of surviving after they got out of prison, so for women who had six or less months to get out of prison for reasons better than to mention here, but certainly some reasons that we wouldn't see as reasons for people being in jail, which allowed them to function further. And the third category is through multilateral organisations. Thematic priorities in 2010 are eu translations, so let's say that this is some help in the European processes of countries in the region, socio-economic and education, educational priorities. So these European or legal gains are clear that, it is the aid in preparation for European reforms and there is, since the Croatian example is so different from all other EU accessions there is actually one huge space for further engagement, since Croatia is a country that has negotiated differently from all other countries by different criteria, and it is waiting for all countries in the region and it is de facto a very useful knowledge. The socio-economic development included particularly the restoration of the destroyed housing units of returnees in war affected areas, churches, student centres, kindergartens, etc. Education, training and exchange of knowledge of experts, higher education institutions, secondary institutions. To conclude, there is, of course, a huge space, this report shows it, so the fundamental idea in my opinion is good and should work on it and is very important to us. There's a huge room for improvement in the future. It is necessary to establish some concept and foundation of developmental assistance so that it is, among other things, in fact and in the function and achievement of our foreign policy priorities. We should certainly set up one model of coordination in planning development aid, so in one place plan and align with our other policies this development aid so that it can be more efficient. It needs to be circled, so there's no point in being crushed into such a huge number of projects. It is probably smarter to concentrate on fewer more serious projects that can be realised with this help. You'll see that, and you've seen it from those tables. And certainly, some models or principles should be introduced similar to those used in running for funds from European funds, which is a report on project implementation. So the insight into when the money went away, what happened to them, whether the projects were realised, how the reports were realized and reported. For the development policy priorities, Croatia will certainly concentrate in four areas in the future. One country is the environment, the other are the countries of the Southern Mediterranean, the third countries of Sub-Saharan Africa are precisely because through European institutions there we will simply focus most of these funds and, among other things, our own. And in countries where Croatia participates in peacekeeping missions. In that sense, some projects have already been launched, but now I don't owe too much. Instead of the conclusion, in 2010 my assessment of what was presented there were some good projects, there were problems with the folding of money, there were also problems with some projects that could not be assessed as developmental and there was this lack of feedback. All of this is visible from the report and according to our assessment from that point of view this report is well and informative because it can be very clearly seen from the concept and how this concept of development aid is realised. If I may say so, of course every government has the right to its own concept of development aid and then implement it through development aid. Since it was a concept that was realised through this development aid, and since it is fully visible and obvious from this report, we believe that the report has fulfilled that function that should be had, which is that it is informative, so we suggest that the Croatian Parliament accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7479	I thank Minister Pusic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7480	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Your Honor, The Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament at its 6th session yesterday discussed this report and unanimously supported it. And now let me say a few words that made up the debate that was conducted on the committee on this report. First, the Committee praised the fact that in 2010 Croatia directed most of its international assistance towards one side of the countries in the region, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are multiple legitimate reasons in terms of Croatian national political and overall interest. On the other hand, it has given significant guidance to the process of developing relations with countries in the region in the context of the europeanisation of the entire region, or to support countries in the region for their preparations for accession to the European Union. In this sense, Croatia has, on the one hand, provided what it could from one side of its experience, and on the other hand, knowledge and instruments or tools that it has developed in the meantime, such as the translations of the acquis that it has given, it seems to me that six countries in our neighbour, in our immediate or closer neighbourhood in the region. On the other hand, of course, the importance of further development of humanitarian aid that Croatia could have for the time being is symbolic, but which tomorrow will represent the Croatian commitment on the one hand, and on the other, it represents the Croatian interest. That's the positive side of things. The less positive side of things is that this report indicates that our capacities are actually still very modest and that our material-financial potentials for this kind of foreign-political activity of the country and the country's external-political engagement are still extremely modest. In 2010, we stepped up precisely thanks to the translations of the acquis, but if there was no translation of the acquis then it would actually be seen that our materials, our tool for international cooperation in this segment that affirms Croatia, which provides Croatia with a certain kind of influence and presence, is actually still extremely, extremely modest. In this respect, the members and members of the Committee in their debate supported the possible effort of the ministry to actually insist through the government and government policy on ensuring that more resources would be provided to Croatia not only by what would be its European commitments, as this will no longer be a matter of bilateral relations between countries such as Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia, Montenegro or a third country but simply be an integral part of the obligation within what is the European policy of this kind. However, we are a country that has received various forms of assistance and support over the past 20 years. We'll start receiving one when we become a member. For example, the aid granted by the Kingdom of Norway to all countries for balanced market circumstances, balanced market development, which is certainly of interest to the countries having a imbalance in the competition but is also of interest to the Kingdom of Norway itself. And in this respect, I am taking the Kingdom of Norway as an example of the spell of course on the international political plan of an extremely significant actor, much greater than some of its other potentials. And we, Madam Ministers, in this sense, have debated that we should see no matter what our economic situation is incomparable to the country I mentioned or cited as an example, that we should see how Croatia gradually develops this kind of own potential both within European and bilateral arrangements. Some of them have also been mentioned by us and the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy, so we believe that this dimension needs to be strengthened and we hope that with better economic conditions and a greater focus will be on this dimension of our international cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7481	Thank you. I am now opening a debate on the 2010 report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia and abroad. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7482	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad in 2010 and that is the second such report that the Government delivers to the Parliament for adoption. Since the latter is therefore already clear that this is a new project, one new initiative that will definitely need to be upgraded should be followed. However, it is something that is extremely positive for the Republic of Croatia, and in fact, the key thing is that Croatia is becoming a country of help from the country that was receiving help. So, through development aid Croatia shows itself as an important international factor, as a country that respects the principle of solidarity in international relations, it is shown as a country that understands the international order and which actively participates in it. I listened very carefully to what Minister Pusic said and I agree that the system needs to be improved. There are still certain shortcomings in it. But as with all major projects, especially in international relations, it takes some time for things to lie in place and I believe that the years to come and improve the development aid system itself in the Republic of Croatia and that it will indeed become one of the important components of our foreign policy. As for 2010 Croatia has indeed provided assistance in nearly 800 different projects. About 470 million kuna has been invested, and it is indeed an exceptional asset, at 0.15% of gross national income. If it competes with similar countries, those countries that have recently become members of the European Union, we see that we are standing there solidly. However, it is also important to point out that in 2010, an exception occurred, that significant increase in development aid is right through the translation of the acquis that has been delivered to countries most likely to follow the Croatian pathway and that we hope to become a full member of the European Union as soon as possible. These six Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Kosovo and Albania received our translation. It was on the board of questions why Albania too, because the prime minister of Albania Berisha himself asked for a translation, given that a lot of their people speak also Croatian to facilitate the translation, so not only English but also Croatian. It should also be pointed out that territorial aid is directed in line with the interests of the Republic of Croatia, primarily towards countries in the region that I have already mentioned and also towards the countries of Africa and Asia where Croatian military forces are, where we participate in peacekeeping missions, Afghanistan is primarily. As regards thematic priorities in 2010 also said Minister Pusic of State Construction, transfer of knowledge from the EU accession process, so this is one knowledge very specific that Croatia has and which we can really offer as one of our original products that will benefit our neighbours, but we also took care of socio-economic elements and education. About 5 million kunas were also heading towards Haiti, Chile, China, Pakistan and Albania. It was different kinds of humanitarian aid, and I think a significant step has been taken in 2010 which, as I said, will also be upgraded in the years ahead. I would conclude that development aid is a picture of the new, strengthened international position of the Republic of Croatia, that we have become as I have already said to the Contributor, not the one receiving the assistance, and that, in my opinion, is the most important difference, the positive difference compared to what was before, and that development aid will certainly be an important component of Croatian foreign policy, and through it we will contribute to world peace, solidarity and cooperation. Of course, we should always take care of our preferences, our evaluations and our usefulness and developmental assistance and our foreign-political positions and priorities. I agree that we should work on building up the system, coordinating and focusing on exactly certain projects, but as in all of this, there will be time for things to be worked out. I would congratulate all those who participated in the creation of this project, in its implementation, and I wish them much success. The HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7483	I thank Representative Jandrokovic. The HNS Club's position will now be brought to us by distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the surrounding fact that we are getting a 2010 report in 2012 which, of course, is negative in itself because if the report is submitted to the competent body, the government and Parliament with a year of delay, then probably not even the realisation of a project that we treat in this way is probably not the best, it raises doubts. Therefore, reports should not happen if they come to the Croatian Parliament for more than a year compared to the period to which these reports apply. But there is also a good circumstance in this, these reports that are actually reports of the work of the previous government can in some way set some sort of orientations, they can help us detect issues and in some way set up a starting position to monitor these processes, or the quality of the report in the future. This is despite the fact that it may sound unusual and because at first it is actually a significant topic already, in fact, of about a billion kunas per year in perspective. In 2015, according to the European Commission's recommendation, it is 0.33% of GDP, and already today it is more than a billion kuna. So that's a pretty high amount. Croatia was supposed to have 0.17% of GDP in 2010, we achieved a de facto 0.04%. These are therefore high amounts, which is part of the negotiations I do not know whether this has been negotiated, is part of the European Commission's recommendation in Chapter 30, but that this is also the case for other countries. In 2010 Slovenia gave 0.15% of its GDP for this type of aid. Therefore, we will obviously reach 0.33% at a faster pace in just five years, which is what we are expected to do, but when this is the case, we should use that circumstance as it says here in the document, as it says in the strategy we adopted to use this large amount and that specific nature and international development aid, of course, to achieve our political and economic objectives. That's something to take care of. So, in the year that development aid is involved, if the translation of legal gains was taken away, which was referred to by Ms. Minister, it was 119 million kuna, i.e. 0.04% of GDP, which is not a small amount of money either. And it would be interesting now to take a closer look at what the territorial and thematic priorities set out in this document are, therefore, certainly also in the National Development Cooperation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to territorial priorities and here it has been pointed out that there has been a fragmentation. The goal of the Republic of Croatia according to the strategy is to focus on 5 to 7 countries as it says here, and of course these are the areas of which Ms. Minister spoke, so the immediate neighbourhood, the southern Mediterranean, sub-Saharan Africa as part of the EU framework, but of course should be limited to a small number of countries, not 40 as it was in 2010. When we talk about the thematic priorities of them 7 is listed here in the report, i.e. it is obviously part of the National Strategy, of which 4 are only understandable because it is actually about the transfer of our specific knowledge and experience, and 3 can be discussed education, health, energy, are we just invited to give development aid in these areas, are we the best here, can we affirm ourselves the most? This is of course a question, but it should be noted that it would take a picture of the situation concerning this development aid that out of these 119 million kuna is 27 million kuna or almost 25% of a quarter and has gone beyond the thematic priorities defined by the National Strategy. It is not small money that can be interpreted as a waste of money, therefore it is certainly without any planned strategic, economic and political objectives and such a situation should certainly be avoided in the future. When we talk about the principles on which such activities should be based, or such international assistance by the Republic of Croatia, this should certainly be what is mentioned in the report or strategy, compliance with the political and economic objectives of the Republic of Croatia, but this should take care of other aspects such as the initiative and leadership, the building of recognizable partnerships in this area, such as the example of building home primary and health care with the USID for international assistance, in Lepenica, Kosovo, the ability of timely reaction, the transfer of knowledge and not only material resources and, of course, of course, targeted assistance grouped into which you give what is best you can concentrate on, it helps not only to affirm but to build yourself, and then use this fundamental objective, and this is compliance with the political and economic objectives of the Republic. So some areas where international development aid for the Republic of Croatia should be based are only understandable simply stemming from our circumstances in which we live, or our history, or could even be told our comparative advantages. So our comparative advantages are all those experiences and knowledge that we inherit from war and war, and there is, of course, these experiences, and there are not many countries. Unfortunately, such situations and conditions in the world will be for a long time. Therefore, these areas of reconciliation, demining, restoration, care for the victims, disabled people are experiences that Croatia can very well pass on to various parts of the world and, of course, must insist on. I can speak even from the point of view of the defence sector after the war experience it is also one experience that other countries do not have and that Croatia can also transmit and thus be affirmed in the world in such a way. Another comparative advantage or our speciality is certainly the experience that we have gained in the process of building a state, especially in the process of negotiations with the EU. This, of course, is not just a matter of translation, and it is certainly a welcome activity that we have deepened our report from 004 real to 0015 nominal, but there are a number of other issues that Croatia can use and can be used in this particular neighbourhood of countries that are aspiring to EU membership that are facing the challenges of building a country that can be used. What is again part of some of our special position mentioned here, which is the position of Croatian national minorities in neighbouring countries. The development aid for BiH in 2010 amounted to around 90 million kunas, so it was convincingly the highest and makes up almost 75% of real development aid, but the Republic of Croatia has its minorities in all neighbouring countries. And if this can be put under the influence of development aid, and it may or should try to do so, why not take this circumstance that we cannot influence and not only help our national minorities but also strengthen our position within the international community and thus gain affirmation in our immediate neighborhood, which, of course, affirmation on a wider international stage. The same is the issue of helping Croatian emigration. And it's one of the areas that can be covered under development aid. It is also in dual function, a function of cooperation and concern that, of course, it is our constitutional obligation but also the affirmation of the Republic of Croatia in the international community and the building of good relations with the countries in which our countrymen live. So you need to see if there's that space and if that space exists you should definitely use it. I would finally welcome here the idea that participation in the peace missions of the Republic of Croatia will be used to place wider development aid to those countries. Long ago somewhere in the Department of Defense was the idea to take on every mission and it was some kind of autonomous idea that wasn't part of the developmental assistance is in this form yet not even there, to make maybe one school. In fact, the construction of these small schools somewhere in Africa is a minimum cost of 10 thousand euros, and it is a significant processing of our pension mission, and it also enables and facilitates the lives of our people where they are more easily integrated into the environment in which they live and, of course, it makes it easier for them to carry out their tasks but simply easier and more pleasant life for our soldiers in these peace missions. So there's a wide area of activity. It needs to be well planned, it needs to be reduced and thematic priorities should be limited to this, it should respect what is written in the documents, thus achieving this fundamental goal that, given that we are in some way obliged within the framework of the UN Millennium Goals and in the framework of the recommendations of the European Commission, we should single out these famous 0.33% therefore over a billion kuna annually, so that we can use this to place the image on the Republic of Croatia as a responsible and solid country, but also to achieve our political and economic, strategic interests. So, the club of HNS representatives based on all this, and especially given those expectations that we have since the realization of this development aid in the years ahead will be pleased to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7485	I thank the esteemed representative, Joza Radosh. The SDP club's view will be presented by respected representative Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7486	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As already pointed out in the debate, the Croatian Parliament discussed this report for the second time, and last time there was a dispute on what should be contained and whether projects of official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad are indeed developmental. As already stated and pointed out, 1/4 of the aid listed as a development is not in line with the priorities of the National Strategy, so it is not a project and in this respect it should welcome the announcement by the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs that everyone has their own concept of international development and official assistance and that it will change. Given the fact that in 2010, we singled out more than 473 million kunas, at least nominally because the real amount of these funds is actually quite different because we actually multiplied six times that aid that went as a translation of the legal gain, since it was about 473 million kuna... budgets, so taxpayers' money, allow me a few introductory notes because it is necessary to highlight what it is, what it is for, or what the objectives are, and to specify exactly whether we have achieved them by selecting the projects that we have funded. [[You don't understand.]] Namely, bilateral, trilateral and multilateral official development aid is financed in accordance with international agreements signed and ratified by the Republic of Croatia and as we heard, in 2010, the allocation was 0.15% of gross national income, and we financed a total of 791 development projects and international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance programmes in 40 countries. By adopting the National Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament for a five-year period, so by 2014, we decided to complete the process of transition and the status of the recipient country of development aid to the country of the donor at international and regional level. Regardless of all, Croatia is still in its part the recipient of international development aid and in the context of this recent conference of donors held in Sarajevo, but for the last five years, so in 2007, when we started with the first 147.5 million kuna, we are also the donor country. So, in all the 20 years since independence, we have been the recipient of different bilateral and multilateral partnerships, but it has come time for us to show our gratitude and return in this way to the international community by participating as a donor country. Our EU accession process has also acted on changing status, and under Chapter 30 of the negotiations, we have committed ourselves to delivering periodic reports to the European Commission and confirmed, although this obligation does not come about automatically but is expected to be ready to take part in the EU development aid policy after EU accession. As we know, the EU is the largest donor at the international level of development aid, so over 55% of the total funding comes precisely from the European Commission as the biggest donor. And according to the declared priorities, so by 2012, we should reach the total level of separation of 0.33% of gross national income or about 1.1 billion kuna. It has already been pointed out several times that one of the official development aids is one of the components of Croatian foreign policy, that we are working in line with the declared objectives and international organisations, and the concept of international development aid itself is one of the priorities of UN reform, and let's not underestimate the fact that we should actively participate and participate in the formation of the UN's basic documents. And in this process, but generally in the area of foreign policy, we must take advantage of our acquired experiences during both political and economic transition and the post-war period. So exactly what experience I've already highlighted that we've become a donor country from the recipient country. In the context of foreign policy priorities and regional cooperation, properly targeted development assistance can contribute to our... in the region, our visibility at international level and, of course, raising the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] This should take into account how we do it because it is a very sensitive and complex process and should take into account the priorities of the receiving State and, of course, respect its institutions. Therefore, it is necessary to develop development partnerships and make sure that the money of Croatian taxpayers is spent in a smart, efficient and transparent way, with the existence of criteria, and to raise awareness of the public's need, so to sensitize the public for the need to provide development assistance. If, during the next three-year period, the amount of State budget funds is foreseen, at least in accordance with the documents signed, to increase from half a billion kuna to 1.1 billion kuna from all state administration bodies participating in the process because the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is only the coordinator of this, although it has a specific budgetary item. Therefore, each body of the state administration must provide for a certain amount of funds in its budgetary positions. The report shows that the individual authorities of the state administration that participated in the process did not have any, and they were obliged to keep those funds in the relevant paragraphs of the state budget in line with the National Strategy. As regards project planning, therefore, we have been guided by the core priorities of the National Strategy, which can indeed focus on the transfer of experience from transition, the experience of pre-accession negotiations, compliance with EU standards and the experience of war and wartime circumstances, but of course, the priorities are also the UN's Millennium Goals. Among them, there is also a need to highlight the improvement of women's position, gender equality. The Minister has already singled out some projects in which we have co-financed them and, of course, the mitigation of poverty, hunger and the establishment of peace and assistance in humanitarian crises, which the report shows we have indeed done. So, the translation of the legal gain of 8 million kunas we donated, if it wasn't for our official development aid, would have been only 0.04% of GDP. And of that amount, the total bilateral aid is almost 97%, almost 32% of which is BiH's aid. If we exempt the translation of the acquis, 76.47% were given to BiH individually. No other country in the region was aiding more than 1% because the next one at bilateral level is in isolation... But given the special circumstances, so the earthquake is like a humanitarian disaster. [[You don't understand.]] The 27 million kuna or 251 project did not cover any of the thematic priorities defined in the National Strategy. 209 or 26% of all projects cannot be undertaken under one or more Millennium Development Goals. There are numerous cultural projects that need to be stressed that there is absolutely a need to support isolation for projects to preserve national and cultural identity under other programmes. But speaking of this report, the fact is that they are not in line with the National Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Also, a question arises for future reports whether what is our obligation in accordance with the Constitution, so promoting ties with Croats outside the country in the form of preservation of language and culture can be classified as development aid. I would suggest, for example, that the report lists development projects, health projects, educational, socioeconomic projects that we provide as development aid by protecting the rights of interest and giving particular care and protection to our citizens either as a constituent people, whether as minorities or as diaspora. But that other types of projects are, therefore, primarily these cultural projects are in another report, for example, by the Croatian Office Report outside the Republic of Croatia. Fragmentation. In 2009, we directed official development aid to 30 countries. In this year for which we are discussing the 2010 reference 40 states. So we even have a tendency to increase fragmentation and we should choose five or seven key partners and certain thematic and regional priorities. Similarly, the report states that apart from the fragmentation we also have the inflation of official development aid ad hoc nature that does not have a sustainable character. So, in terms of setting other priorities, we have to make sure that this was a one-time flash in terms of donation of the translation of the acquis. This existing system amongst the resorient coordination has shown the lack and complete non-implementation of the law, i.e. the lack of an assessment of the eligibility of projects and evaluations. And as I said before, the ministries didn't have any special well-founded development aid activity. Since the report is very informative and that for the first time, although we are discussing it in the Croatian Parliament for the second time in comparison with the implementation programme of our National Strategy, it is clear what was planned, or not implemented, and that many authorities may have, out of ignorance, not defined and identified their projects as development aid because of lack of knowledge of matter, because 95% of the overall financial value of official development aid in 2010 was focused on the region of Southeast Europe, which is in line with our external and political priorities. Since the total allocations for the most underdeveloped countries were 0.64%, which is five times what is expected, and which is actually focused on global values such as the building of peace and security in the world, and ultimately taking into account the real economic indicators and opportunities that the Republic of Croatia had when defining the amount of SDP club will support this report. A few colleagues also talked about it. Therefore, in the long term, in order to be sustainable it is necessary to make appropriate changes both in the institutional and administrative parts of the development aid system. And they need to be systematically planned, because if we take into account them and that the items in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs are those items that had 100% usability and that there is a trend, the upward trend of demand then we really have to count on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7487	I thank Representative Mulic. We're left to hear the views of another club. It'll be a HDSSB club. For the pay phone, I invite the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. A report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia, such as those who spoke before me, on those millions, percentages, 0.17%, which was later set by the European Commission and an increase of 0.33%, which will amount to over a billion and 100 million kunas of development aid to tell abroad, to cut short all the countries that received and which Croatia donated to development aid or money for development aid. In any case, it is good to compare the 2009 trend even earlier in 2008. Then look at this and analyze this 2010 report. As Mr Rados said, we see already a distribution of the countries that were recipients starting with bilateral official development aid in 2010 then it is a huge break-up and fragmentation and aid of these funds, starting with, therefore, the alphabetical order of Afghanistan, Albania, Argentina, Azerbaijan via Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Colombia, Kosovo, Serbia all the way to Vietnam. All of this totals 473 million and 641 thousand kuna. The objectives that have been achieved exactly as said and the interests that should lead the Republic of Croatia in the donation of such development aid should be both political and economic and strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think I could, and I don't have any data on that country where Croatia was, or ex Yugoslavia, that these political, economic and strategic objectives and the interests of that country, so in providing these development aids were somehow better targeted and better exploited than in this country when we have so much fragmentation on a large number of countries, and when we say here, I would say the following objectives, starting with humanitarian aid and helping to develop health, education and a number of other seven so-called countries. priority development objectives. Therefore, eradicate extreme poverty and hunger, ensure universal education, promote gender equality, reduce child mortality, improve maternal health, combat certain diseases such as HIV, malaria and other infectious diseases, care for environmental sustainability and develop global cooperation for development. The most talk here was that out of these 473 million kunas that produced the 791 project, which amounts to 0.15% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia, most of all for projects in our neighbouring country of BiH. It is true that the most money has been allocated for the BiH projects, but we need to know that there, both under the Constitution and under the regulations, we need to take care of Croats outside Croatia, but especially about Croats in BiH. Here once there was the Ministry of Immigrants, employed 26 employees, now next to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who also filed this report found and office, as you will the Office or the Central Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for which there is information that they will employ around 59 people. So when we look at a little efficiency, the efficiency of these donations and what is being placed as a donation to, let's start BiH here, and then this Office of Croatians outside the government of the Republic of Croatia will also worry primarily with regard to the number of Croats in BiH, therefore which unfortunately is constantly decreasing, so when we sum up the financial effects of 59 employees then we will see that these are huge costs that might be directed to them, that part of the funds could be directed precisely in this direction that this report on the implementation of development assistance to the Republic of Croatia abroad. Here first of all, I am thinking again about the neighbouring BiH where the Croatian state is obliged to take care of the survival of Croats in the areas where they have lived and of which BiH is actually the home state. They're numbered here, on the page. 19th, all the projects that were implemented in 2010 and I say that on the page. In 19th, when I talk about BiH, but also other projects across countries, exactly as the funds are concerned. I do not doubt that these funds have been spent in a good way, so there is also a Clinical Hospital in Mostar for Help, there is also the University of Mostar, various sacral facilities throughout BiH and a number of other projects that are clearly more than welcome to the Croats in BiH, but I reiterate that fact from the beginning of this debate, i.e. my presentation, that this fragmentation leads us to think about this fragmentation so that even more resources could be deployed in this direction. In any case, in neighbouring countries such as Serbia, Montenegro and Slovenia, Vojvodina, Kosovo and Macedonia, there are therefore a Croatian national minority where exactly in accordance with these thematic definitions that are listed here, they can realise the projects that people who live there need. Without being resented by anyone. Neither the EU nor the European Commission is clear as the executive power in the EU, and also many projects aimed at telling the real diaspora of emigrated Croats around the world since we will be able to provide assistance to Croats and diaspora, the Croats who are national minorities in these neighbouring countries, here I forgot to say here and Hungary, but above all I am saying on projects that can be implemented in BiH to stop the constant trend of Croatian emigration from BiH. No one is defending us from either the EU or the European Commission to give us the funds prescribed, but 0.17% so far, so that we can target an increase of 0.33% where we want to be clear, while I say the thematic provisions and priorities that are written here. And that this applies first and foremost to these people in all three of these categories and in BiH as the home state of Croats, and in neighbouring countries to the Croatian national minority and to Croats in the remote world, you are actually Croatians in the diaspora of Argentina, the United States and here in Europe. This is why some specific criticism of this report cannot even be, it is exhaustive, it refers to 2010, transparently to the spending of funds and what the Croatian state and Croatian citizens of their, tax bonds which have indeed, as well as the state in great difficulty, have shown to say from their mouths in order to provide this development aid to those who may need it even more. This is why the HDZ will not be against the adoption of this report but will be for a report on the implementation of the official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7489	Thank you, Your Honor. We heard the opinions and views of representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia abroad in 2010. We are going to an individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Assembly on this subject. The first for discussion was registered by the respected representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers of Foreign and European Affairs, counterpart Kos. A few words that I think we still need to point out when the topic on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament is this important, such as the 2010 Official Development Assistance Report. First of all, I missed a part of this debate this morning because in the former assembly of our County House I was engaged in development aid management but on the inside. In fact, we currently have 120 students from the Faculty of Law at the Republic of Croatia members of the European Organisation of Rights which I once had the honour of chairing at the level of Europe and Croatia and Zagreb, and they are currently talking to the President of the Croatian Parliament, and otherwise simulate the work of the Croatian Parliament. Since the report mentions a whole series of activities precisely of seminar character, the character of the transfer of knowledge, I think it is really convenient that, just today, when we have this topic, there is such an interesting activity in the Croatian Parliament. Since I was myself in the ministry during the period when this report was referred to, I certainly support it. What seems important to me is to point out that the entire activity of the Republic of Croatia in terms of development aid is at this stage of its kind, I would say a pioneering attempt to gather all the international activities that we can undertake under the definition of development aid. And indeed these efforts over the past few years since the adoption of the law, monitoring of key activities at global level, at European level give us a good feeling that Croatia has, in accordance with the obligations that we had under Chapter 30 on external activities, followed by European and global trends, and clearly and precisely defined those areas of the world above all Southeast Europe that our engagement in development aid can be extended by the hand of Croatian foreign policy. When we look at key documents such as the Millennium Goals, such as the OECD Prisca Declaration, such as the European Commission's 2011 Change Agenda document, which define globally how to make development aid as useful and as effective as possible, of course from the point of view of large countries, from the point of view of large donors. In 2010, the total amount of global development aid was around $180 billion. Only the U.S. had more than $30 billion within that amount, and we heard the EU is already the global largest donor when funds are pooled from both the EU budget and the Member States over 54 billion euros. Croatia needs to be realistically dimensioned in this activity in the way we started. In fact, the assistance of the countries of the region above all BiH is certainly the number one priority. It is our constant thesis and rhetoric that all transition-integration experience must be done in a quality way and formed and conveyed to our neighbours. That is what is appreciated, that is what they recognise, but what our partners in the EU recognize. The accounting boom in 2010 was unique, we will no longer have it this way, but at least a good deed is when it comes to those percentages that we were given in the context of EU accession. Speaking from experience, it seems to me that in the years ahead, it's not a job that can be done overnight, we need to think about institutionally strengthening the positioning of a coordinating body. I don't have a prescription at the moment whether it's one administration or the sector of today's ministry, whether it's a special agency in the future. There are different models in the world, different models in Europe. Our global responsibility can only be greater, it certainly won't be smaller. And given that the human resources available today are at least available when it comes to the coordinating body, which is the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for me to meet this stage of our activity. However, in the future the overall development aid must be much more precise, it must be much more elaborate. It should not go according to its kind of inert work, but should be directed by a coordinating body, and integrated into wider strategies and priorities of Croatian external activity. This is a key issue ahead of us, and I am sure that the minister and her associates will certainly take great care of it. When we discussed this report at the board meeting, it seemed important that we try to connect the work of the Croatian Office outside Croatia in a good way with activities relating to development aid in the future. And in that sense, I know that operational activities are under way, that it is being established. Of course, when a new institution is created, it means a whole series of technical questions from space, people, financial resources, etc. I would warn, however, that we have already passed this law last calendar year and in the term of last term of the Assembly amended at the beginning of this term, it seems to me that the expectations of Croats outside Croatia concerning the office have been raised. And I therefore use this opportunity and I urge that its formation be completed as soon as possible to fulfil the tasks that we have defined for him in terms of diaspora in a broader sense and Croats as a minority, and of course the special status of the constituent Croatian people in BiH. It seems to me that when we look at the activities of those institutions that have a lot of experience in managing development aid, then we can pull the parallel between what we are doing and today preparing for use and absorption and pre-accession and future structural, cohesion funds with what countries are doing at another stage of development, to prepare them to accept development aid. And here I think it is good to mention the five key principles contained in the 2006 Paris Declaration, which are primarily property over priorities. It is therefore important that donors respond to those projects, to those topics, to those areas where the recipient country really has a specific need. The second is that the entire donor activity is adapted to such national priorities, the third is that these activities are harmonised and it is therefore important that all activities of Croatia in terms of development assistance be coordinated with other countries and institutions. The fourth to be focused on concrete results and the fifth, of course, to make a full evaluation with the full responsibility of all the actors involved. Large countries that have a significantly different budgetary situation, we cannot compare with them, but use exactly those budget lines that serve them for development assistance, for cooperation, for promoting their strategic priorities. I can't and can't mention the experience that I've had with the following and the activists, and the means that, for example, France's long-term experience benefits in this sense, if there weren't no budget for development aid, there wouldn't be an organisation of Francophony, there wouldn't be language diversity, there wouldn't be so many institutes, alliances, kindergartens, schools that encourage what's most important, and that's fostering the culture and language of a country. This is, of course, an example that can be viewed to us, we need to be realistically dimensioned and focus on what I said, and these are our priorities that are visible from this report that is before us today. I support and appeal to the ministry to think together in the future about how to do as effective and as useful Croatia's activities in fulfilling and international obligations as well as to assume our own responsibility for a better future and our neighbours, as well as our global engagements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7491	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Frano Matušić has the right to discuss this issue for 10 minutes. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a lot has been said about this subject already, and I think there are some facts that need to be considered. Well, I would start talking about a fact that is very important for the overall approach to official development aid in 2010. It is, in fact, the year when the recession hit us very hard as a society in general, and that is the year in which it certainly wasn't for Croatia to expect that, with all the problems of financial nature, budgeting and everything else that was related to the recession, it was actually to allocate more significant funds for official development aid. However, this happened, despite the fact that it was actually an accounting boom, it is the fact that we donated the translation from the acquis to six countries that are predicating to become members of the EU, and in this sense it is quite certain that this aid is one-time, that it happened in 2010, that it cannot be expected in the coming years, that on the basis of the same project to make something similar happen. But regardless, the funds that have been allocated are truly respectable and certainly meant a lot in all those countries where they are also placed or donated. In fact, I wouldn't agree with a finding that we could hear from some club representatives that this fragmentation is actually not good. I think she's good. Why, because from the experience of all those who have asked the Republic of Croatia, we can safely say, from their reports I believe that this will be possible and harden concretely, that these funds are as small as they were relatively small, because they are donations that are in fact in some way accountingly run under donations from certain countries, so this amounts to a country of perhaps 3 or 5 thousand kuna. In fact, there are some activities concerning the civil sector or individuals who are certainly welcome in this money, and in this sense there is no need to ignore the fact that there are indeed a large number of countries that have used the official development aid of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this official development aid is certainly a concrete instrument for foreign policy, and then it needs to become more concrete and powerful in the future. Without further ado, it is an instrument of foreign policy that can certainly promote the Republic of Croatia and all aspects of its political and social action, and in this sense it is very desirable. Of course, it is also in some way the obligation of the Republic of Croatia as a full member of the EU tomorrow to single out even a certain percentage. I am sure that we, in this case, will be satisfied with this accounting boom that we talked about, because of the translation of the acquis, but I am convinced that Croatia will have the strength and that enough resources will be found to make the official development aid even bigger in the future and that it will indeed be directed where it is most needed. To consider, in fact, this is exactly what counterpart Plenkovic was talking about, and for example, the example of France and it concerns Croats outside Croatia. In fact, to consider whether official development aid in some way can be combined with all projects concerning Croats outside Croatia and other projects concerning all others who are interested in this official assistance, which will certainly be welcome for all who are donated. Whether it is united to observe or in some way separate in view of this fact that the Office for Croats outside Croatia has been formed. This is something that we really need to say in the Croatian Parliament a specific attitude. I personally think that Croats outside Croatia, given the fact that we have a constituent people in BiH, that we have a great emigration actually requires even greater care and even stronger financial assistance, because their needs are really great, especially in countries that are not sufficiently developed, such as countries that are in our environment, which are not yet candidates, or they will only be candidates for the EU, and it would certainly mean a lot to them and will certainly mean tomorrow when they become, those countries in which they live today, when they become EU members too. And in that sense, I think it would be good to think about how to actually put it all under the title of official development aid, but in some ways I think that this assistance should be managed separately, which should be directed to Croats outside Croatia for specific projects, for schools, of course, for the total cultural, spiritual heritage, all of it immaterially. And materially, of course, and materially because there are both objects and monuments and what they use in their daily lives, and what is necessary, of course, to restore and edit and maintain, etc. Not to mention all their needs, which are certainly great, which they cannot realize in their own countries, the countries of origin they live in. And in this sense, perhaps we should really consider how to help Croats outside Croatia in a special way. It will likely be possible within this Office for Croatians outside Croatia to gain one more active role. So, not only has Croatia become an aider in the military component for many years. It has, in fact, become, through official development aid in this civil, social component, also a donor of significant resources for numerous projects that have certainly been of great importance to all those who were recipients of these funds. In this sense, indeed, Croatia is here today in the best possible way to justify its full membership in the European Union tomorrow and certainly is already turning to more active participation in this regard. And I am convinced that this will be recognized by our citizens, that despite all the problems we have, the problems within Croatia and the budgeting that we have the strength and resources to help others, which is certainly what separates Croatia from that position of countries that do not have those opportunities. And I'm sure tomorrow will be much better. As far as the Report was concerned, there were some remarks about the very fact that there may not be enough clear indicators of what all these funds were invested in, in which projects, in which these projects are phased out, are they completed. I believe that, after all, reports will be found by the Ministry of Commerce, because they are all obliged to report in some way on the spending of these funds. If that is not the case, then it is indeed necessary, of course, as all beneficiaries of the budget have an obligation to report on what and how much has been spent and how much, I believe that these beneficiaries of these funds should also request reports to be quite clear that the funds have been spent exactly as they have been requested and are also approved for the purposes which they have been granted. In that sense, I think that this will be clearer in the next report, and I believe that the ministry will find mechanisms how and that these facts in some way unite so that we do not have any doubts here about the spending of these funds. And finally I believe here is that the ministry will only find a framework in which it can further coordinate on official development aid. And I think it's a good idea that my colleague Plenkovic mentioned, which is either some new administration or some new sector in the ministry that would introduce, unifying all these jobs. Because we really expect that in the coming years we will allocate even more significant and larger resources. Here, anyway, I support this report. It is only the second in a row that has, of course, its shortcomings, but it is certainly within the frameworks in which the aid was given, in the year in which it is given. I believe that we can be satisfied with everything that has been done through official development aid which I say will become very clearly a strong instrument for the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7493	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have a single replica signed up for your presentation. Dear Representative Jozo Radoš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Matušić said that by referring to the club exposure that the fragmentation of the development aid they rated as unfavourable that it was not in itself unfavourable for him. But it's not just the club's position. It is the position of the proposer, a rapporteur who speaks of a worrying fragmentation of the use of development aid in 40 countries compared to 30 countries last year. But the fragmentation if it's part of the plan then it's not worrying, then I guess it's part of some kind of strategy, so it also creates some kind of strategic interests. But the data listed here that is 27 million kuna, and almost 25% of effective development aid went beyond the thematic priorities of this fragmentation that is not planned, which is the fruit of a constant improvisation of this fragmentation is alarming. If seven thematic priorities are to be set, as mentioned here five to seven, seven thematic priorities, and if seven territorial priorities are to be set, then each project should meet at least the requirement to be in one of these priorities in a thematic or territorial way. If in that case, therefore, if this is in line with the strategy and the implementation plan, that fragmentation shall not be worrying. But the fragmentation that is not part of the plan and part of the strategy is not welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7495	Thank you, Your Honor. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7496	Well, only part I can agree with you. Of course, we should also move within the priorities that we will politically determine, which will be determined by the political ministry and the Parliament, etc., the Government. But the fact is it's very difficult, it's very difficult to plan all forms of development aid. This is a fact and the fact is that it is absolutely certain that these priorities are difficult for all those who are interested in receiving development aid, which will certainly and justly be used in a way that corresponds to the Republic of Croatia and, of course, to the user of this official development aid. And in that sense, I don't think that we should close the door, regardless of what we will of course set priorities, each country certainly sets its priorities, and in that sense Croatia has priorities and will determine them and will work them out. But, of course, you don't have to lock the door to help everyone who answers with the best intentions, because I think it's no matter how big that help can be. There are examples of several thousand kunas to help you. But it may be one of the scholarships for someone who will tomorrow be a transferee of knowledge about Croatia or Croatian, etc. Therefore, every project should be looked at and evaluated, and it is therefore necessary for the ministry to have a particular service which will be able to respond in the best possible way and regardless of the natural priorities within which it is necessary to move beyond these priorities to continue to donate this assistance to the individuals of the institutions, to all those who are interested and who meet the criteria set by the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7497	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of clubs and the list of representatives in the Croatian Parliament who wanted to and applied to talk about this topic. And now I call on the respected Vesna Pusic, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs as a proposal for material. Here you go, dear minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me take this opportunity to thank everyone who participated in the debate both on behalf of clubs and in an individual debate with which, if I may say most practically everything I agree with, a good idea with a need for really important development and disseminating in my realisation. If you allow me a few comments, that is, an attempt to respond to what people said in the debate. One reference to the very beginning on behalf of the Foreign Policy Committee is that our potentials are modest and need to be increased as far as development aid is concerned. We will dramatically increase this development aid by joining the EU because we will simply be obliged to participate in joint development assistance, so in what the EU is using as its means of development assistance. It's up to us to adapt to that fact and our positioning and our equipment in foreign policy itself. I mentioned at the outset that, for example, most of them help the development EU and then our future money that will be there goes to the countries of sub-Saharan Africa. At this point, the Republic of Croatia has 0 diplomatic representations in sub-Saharan Africa. In other words, we don't have ambassadors in the area. We have a Southern Mediterranean and South Africa. There's nothing between us. So we do not have ambassadors who, given the fact that they will be present there, although European but also with our significant participation for our development aid options, which would be based on this and would be present there and participate on the realisation and economic and political objectives that are related to it. And that's exactly why we're at this point, for example. in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, we are making preparations for the introduction and the proposal to name two so-called Lap-top or wandering ambassadors, so ambassadors who would be accredited to exactly those countries where much of our development assistance would go through European institutions that would be stationed, or that would be sitting in Zagreb, but would cover these countries of sub-Saharan Africa and, say, 5, 6 times a year would travel to these countries of sub-Saharan Africa and combined with honor consulates in those countries can actually partially realize and the fact that we in those countries will participate with our very important segmental official development aids. So in some situations, we need to adapt development aid to foreign policy objectives, in some situations we need the fact that through multilateral organisations our official development assistance will go to certain locations that are without further interest to us, adapt its organisational infrastructure and foreign policy infrastructure that we can also realise our foreign policy objectives in combination with development aid. In what directions and priorities do you develop potentials in development aid? There's a lot of room for development, correction and without further ado. A lot of people mentioned that. At this point these fundamental objectives are in the direction or areas are in the direction of building institutions or institutional infrastructure states based on the experience we have had throughout the negotiation process. In this respect, other projects by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs are also focused on the subject. So it's not just one thing, but it's actually coordinating topics, so let's say this year's topic of Croatia is summitting exactly that – building the state and experience of European negotiations. It is also formed in the process of forming and proposing to the Government of the Centre of Excellence from our negotiating group as one actual project that would also play an important role and then the idea and start of talks on the Centre for Euro-Atlantic Strategies in BiH, of course, in agreement and only always and only in agreement with BiH. Another idea is to strengthen civil indifference in our or our peace missions around the world. Not only for the reasons mentioned here, but also because de facto only civil projects have the possibility of adding sustainability, or producing peace in the absence of war. What peace missions can do is create a situation of absence of war, the absence of conflict, but what peace missions can do is create conditions for real peace. Development aid is, of course, guided by priorities or decision on how we profile our country. So who we want this country to have an image, which is what it concentrates on. And there are topics that we have identified and will be managed by developmental assistance in the future of education, human rights, women's rights, rights discriminated against potentially or truly discriminated against by other groups in individual societies. However, the hand on the heart, in order for you to be able to advocate, propagate, promote, promote in the countries where you provide development assistance, you must advocate, propagate, promote, and at home, therefore at home. And it's one of the roles of foreign policy and development aid that creates a picture of society and country in the world, but also creates a reflection of that picture on the domestic situation. And let me take this opportunity to say that as long as you have a shameful and unacceptable situation or an incident that happened with the two Roma Scabrnji families, until you can't condemn it as a country that propagates anti-discrimination, human rights, civil rights. If we want to propagate it to the international and thus put ourselves through development aid and everything else, we must propagate it both at home and condemn any such act and attempt at home. Because otherwise all of this that's working on the development aid plan is actually from the point of view of the country, it's pointless. Therefore, the values we are propagating outside must be defended on the first line of defense, which is home. The 4th objective or something to be managed in development assistance is the economic presence of the country, so where the country and economically for any reason is present and has interests. And the 5th is ad hoc humanitarian intervention, so in cases of humanitarian disasters where we appear as a country that intervenes or participates in this humanitarian aid. More people who participated in the debate stressed that official development aid must be developmental. So that in development aid is an emphasis on development. It's absolutely true and there's no doubt and it has to be a fundamental criterion, so it has to be developmental. It has been said that Croatia is still in the recipient's situation in view of the donor conference on refugee status in the region. De facto Croatia is part of it but there is the only one that is not in the full sense the words of the recipient country. In all these years, Croatia has invested around 5.5 billion euros in care, housing and various other refugees, the vast majority of whom are from its own budget. And what will appear is the de facto IPA funds that will enter that Croatian section for the housing of refugees as far as Croatia itself is concerned, but Croatia considers it important and participates in this because it is an exit strategy for refugee status in the region and what we consider important. It has been said to plan development aid for many years, absolutely. I think it is necessary, I think, that it is also necessary that several participants in the debate mentioned focusing in one place not only a reporting on what the government's body was doing on the development aid plan but planning a development aid strategy. No matter what different bodies of the state administration have their own development aid budgets, but how do they use them? What are they doing with that money? What are your projects? Without further ado, they need to be planned in one place, so they have one body to deal with it. A fragmentation contrary to concentration of funds and projects is mentioned. Of course, it depends in principle on me, too, to concentrate the funds, but of course it depends on the type of projects. If you are giving scholarships to people who are studying in Croatia, then a scholarship in a country is worth it to in some way connect someone to Croatia through the experience of education in Croatia. If it is some major projects of infrastructure, therefore, some projects that require more funding in the recipient countries, then it is probably better to have a smaller number of more effective projects and concentrate on a smaller number of countries in order to have a more significant impact and a more significant impact. A new office has been discussed, whose establishment regulation was adopted yesterday by the government, the Croatian Office outside Croatia. As for development aid, therefore, official development aid and a whole series of ministries have their development aid programmes. So that's not the problem in itself. The problem is that planning is coordinated in one place. And realisation can be done in different places. Unfortunately, for 2010, we will not get data on the use but for 2011, I hope that we will, or there is a chance that we will have a clearer insight into how the means of use are. This will not be possible for 2010. As for Croats outside Croatia, especially in BiH, help is said to be developmental, absolutely. Absolutely, it should be in our opinion and coordinated, something that a few colleagues said was important for the projects to be owned by the recipient country. The country receiving help has control over what it is, that no one comes from outside and pushes you something like a recipient country that you or you won't or don't recognize as your priorities. Development aid is possible and necessary only in partnership with the countries receiving it and so Croatia's development aid without further delay and when it comes to Croats in BiH should be in agreement and in line with the development projects that are being implemented and defined by the state, i.e. the government within BiH. So, without further ado, it has to be in one partner relationship. I must be in line with the policy of the Republic of Croatia towards BiH, absolutely. This policy has changed over time, it is not always the same and let's say one of the objectives for us is to create and help in conditions that the young generation recognises its chances and the possibility that even when it comes to Croats in BiH, to recognise the chances of participation in the future of its own country of BiH, so to enable such kind of projects and finance such kind of projects that it gives to these young people, opens up a chance to participate in the future of its own country. And finally, it was said that it would be good to do something similar to what was done in France, I can add in Britain both in America and Germany, but now also in a series of so-called. new democracies or new members such as Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic. I fully agree and in this sense we are working on a project called the Mažuranić Foundation or some kind of Croatian british counsle, or a kind of foundation that would promote cultural projects. One part of the region using language understanding, so also from publishing, from media industries, from culture, from art, and from education. So some kind of foundation that would use culture in the broadest sense of the word as well as language in the region as an instrument of international communication. And in this regard Croatia will at this point realise from the end of the year, together with, so the Ministry of Culture along with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, so-called The Croatian season in France in the context of a project of cultural communication and presentation of Croatia and this project has already enabled us to select one very interesting, extremely interesting and if you are interested without any further interest, one interesting selection of Croatian cultural projects, from theatre, visual, music and any other art, a video of different types of art production that will be presented in the context of this Croatian season in France and which is one basis for us and for the beginning of this cultural profiling, or representation of Croatia beyond France to start in the region, and then with the possibility of spreading it. So, as far as these suggestions are concerned, she is absolutely not only welcome but is the project itself in the process of designing the realization. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7499	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations by representatives of Mr Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7500	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree, Mrs Vesna Pusic, Madam Minister, that every discrimination gives the reflection that is happening in our country, in our society, gives reflection to the outside, to the abroad. And I personally and regret and condemn every kind of discrimination and what happened in Skabrnja, I would say in an isolated property-environmental dispute that happened there, which also has elements of discrimination. Let's put it that way. But I think such an isolated case that we all regret and condemn together can't have the reflection, the one you were talking about. What kind of flash is it supposed to be after Sarkozy's decision to deport Roma from France and thousands of them? And if each isolated case is separate and needs to be considered and should be condemned or considered. Therefore, such an isolated case that is not supported by the Croatian Government, neither this Parliament nor any of us, I think that even condemns it here and personally, cannot have a reflection in that sense in which you speak. Here's the correcting of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7501	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2010. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2010. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 110 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7504	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian Labourists – the party of work is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the following two conclusions. The first conclusion is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to immediately prohibit legal persons of particular national interest by a decision of the Croatian Parliament of 15 December 2010. This is the decision that lists 165 companies and public institutions as well as such legal entities owned by local, regional self-government and public institutions owned by the state or local and regional self-government to donate funds for the purposes of sport, technical culture, science culture and humanitarian and any other purpose. The second conclusion that laborers propose to adopt the Croatian Parliament is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to immediately restrict legal persons of particular national interest by means of a regulation, as established by a decision on the list of legal persons of particular national interest as well as those of such legal persons owned by local and regional self-government, and public institutions owned by state, local and regional self-government, costs for employees at the level of applicable collective agreements and to abolish all other payments to workers and labour costs which are not defined by collective agreements or applicable legal acts. What exactly is the intention of this proposal's conclusion? First of all, noble. She's also socially useful, asparagus. In light of the crisis Croatia has been in for a long time. Legal persons of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and local self-government, i.e. state-owned companies or local self-government, and public institutions financed either from the state budget or from citizens' money spend on available data about 200 million kuna on various sponsorships and donations. By what criteria do they spend? By what regulations? With what purpose and whose authority? For example, can Croatia's electricity industry, which is known to be a far-reaching price of electricity, be it considered a 30 per cent increase with money from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to have the right to demand it. Can the head of Croatia spend insurance on donations mostly of 40 million kuna in one year? Like that happened in 2009, for example. To whom did Croatia's head of security share that money? Who he wanted. He even shared it with the organizers of spiritual sessions on Hvar, for example. Croatia's insurance donated twice per 200000 kuna for the exhibition of paintings to the European Movement in the European House of Zagreb. What coincidences were taken by the European House at the time by the HSLS, Mislav Stipic and Sinisa Grgic, and by chance Hrvoje Vojkovic was then the vice president of HSLS. And Dinamo didn't leave his hands empty, of course. Vojkovic said by donating Dinam 3 and a half million kuna I am happy to help this extraordinary club. With what? With the money of a state-owned company. And in all of that, the state closed its eyes tightly. Vojkovic listed between 200m and 300m kuna according to other sources that have not been denied in four years. For science, for culture, for sport. I ask again by what criteria? HEP also distributed 80,000 kuna donations daily. The broad arms were also Croatian forests. Although in the losses of Rijeka – Zagreb 2009 she donated a million 326 thousand kuna. Even Vesnik d.d. for donations he solved the bag. PLINACRO sprayed two and a half million kunas. Of course, the government refused the possibility of controlling public money. He doesn't want to bother himself with two hundred million kunas a year, or perhaps he needs to properly examine the business of state-owned self-government companies where much more money is spent. So the government's unconvinced ban on donations would have killed many cultural and sports events, many amateur sports clubs would have died. You'd be doing more damage than you've done so far. That's just not true. All that money in a transparent way can be shared by the state, the representatives of the authorities that the people have authorized. In this way culture, sport and science would get all these sums of money. Allowing money to be shared with a cap and a paw as the director wishes, as the leaders of public companies are urged by crime, money laundering and the distribution of prey. the life of this proposal would prevent malfeasance and help culture, sport and science, but of course it would fit the pockets of powerful people in public enterprises, and their partners in sport, culture and science. It's funny that the government doesn't care about order, it's weird that the government doesn't want to create criteria, it's weird that the government still allows business directors to be uncontrollably powerful. I don't know if in the Government, in many state-owned companies, in companies that are partly financed from the state budget, employees have the right to add to fitness, sauna supplements, which pay interest on loans and all that tax taxpayers' money, all that money to those who pay for the price of electricity, expensive gas, and all that the state doesn't want to put under one control. Croatian Labourists – the party of work suggested that these conclusions be made in order and that in this crisis situation we really care about every kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7505	Thank you very much. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Does the Committee's representative want to take a word for it? Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić. And no, he's, you're on behalf of the proposer, only it's written down here. You see, this needs to be dealt with a little faster. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Ms. Nancei Tyrelli. But you still changed? So it was Mr. Vuksic? ... Then it's not the technique. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I apologize to the tech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7506	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Here I'm going to try to represent it in a different way, maybe a little simpler. When we discussed the first item of the agenda then colleague Jozo Radoš mentioned at one point 27 million kuna that is not small money, it is significant money. With the proposal of what we present today, we are talking to you about much bigger money, if by this criterion we are going to talk about money of more than 200 million kuna for just one part of the whole story, not taking into account the costs, i.e. the expenditure of local administration and self-government. Citizens pay taxes and contributions that go to the budget as such. From this budget, countries finance culture, sport, science and technical culture according to the items planned for that budget. The local administration and self-government units also finance the same culture, the same sport and the same science. However, it also sets out from that state state budget for companies that are of general national importance and we heard how many there are in the Republic of Croatia from the presentation of counterpart Branko. The urban and municipal budgets of that budget also set out for enterprises owned by municipalities or cities. The problem arises at the time when citizens, for example, are informed that they have collected their electricity prices and that we heard from our prime minister's mouths because of the collection of energy we import. From the mouth of the first Deputy Prime Minister, we heard his recommendation to the citizens to make fewer phone calls so they'd have enough money left for electricity. That's exactly why this proposal is our law. In 2009, this same HEP, the same state-owned company, which collected the price of electricity in 1,05, spent more than 28 million kuna on sports, culture, science and technical culture. With that I can tell you that in most cases all that money has been allocated to sport. If the 23 million kuna of HEP came to the state budget, HEP is as such a legal entity operating on the economic market of the Republic of Croatia, earning some of its profits or earning its loss. The price went up because HEP was dealing with losses in 2010. The question arises how much this 23 million kuna would have affected if they had turned around as crafts in normal business that the price of electricity in 1.05 for citizens should not have been collected. The Croatian National Bank is also financed from the same state budget in which citizens have already paid their money through their taxes and contributions once. However, one who is happy to work at the CNB has free interest on credit because the bank pays them out of the state budget that loan war. If you work in the CNB, then you are also lucky to have a free dentist, i.e. what our citizens pay to fix their teeth and in most cases some amount of 18 to 20 thousand kuna is free of charge because you are happy because you are working in the CNB that is funded from that same budget in which citizens have paid their taxes and contributions and you got those teeth for nothing. If you're happy and you work in FINA, not the Adriatic, then you'll get free of charge two or three times a week free Pilates. I ask myself whether Adriatic workers and all 1400 companies in Croatia who are bankrupt also have Pilates or have what they belong to and what they have earned, and these are monthly receipts from that same state budget? They don't. They have a police intervention. I don't want to go any further, the government's opinion is that all the committees have rightly rejected this bill of ours, and I must also mention that the government's opinion as such came negatively and I think that the journalists are now asking any of you MPs here whether you're in favour of collecting electricity from 1.05 in order for all of you to say the same, we don't support it because it's on the burden of citizens. That is why this proposal by Croatian Labourists is for things to be put in place, that people working in state enterprises cannot and must not decide on their own initiative to finance something, how much they will give to someone but to get all that money from these companies into the state budget and then by smart planning to reroute those funds back to culture and sport in a transparent way, and not to talk about how local and regional self-government units should do the same thing so that the budgets are transparent, that budgets are public and that final citizens see and can see what their money is and where their money is spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7507	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7508	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here are two conclusions, or one conclusion with two points that is very interesting, and at first glance when you look at it like this, you'd say "man," so it's really okay, so it can't be against it. Who may be against being unrealized whether it's about companies owned by a state or units of local self-government, institutions, agencies or anything else. Of course nobody's against it. And really on that side when you're looking, it's acceptable. Of course, especially if we have in mind, as well as the facts and data presented here that some commercial companies have done very irrationally, how they donated huge funds. And what I'm going to add further, and what's still questionable, and what about these funds that have been donated to how they were managed in these associations, cultural, sports, etc.? When you look at it all, you'd really say this is a good suggestion. However, the proposal has its dimensions, one is formally legal and the other is essential. At the formal legal level, the government said this proposal was legally questionable. So I'm thinking the same thing if we were to ask ourselves, should we make conclusions that are legally questionable, we'd all say no. And now we're in college. On the one hand, something is proposed, and on the other hand it is legally questionable, and on the other hand it is socially acceptable. Therefore, I am in favour of bringing nothing which is legally questionable, but that does not mean that there is no need to support and that everything that is unacceptable should not be fought, which is irrational and what the funds are spent on, and should not be. So it's on the formal side. As far as the content side is concerned, we can, of course, discuss it. In principle, I accept all or most of what is said in the proposal of the Labour Club promoters, that no large donation funds are given, that this is spent irrationally, that at this time when Croatia is in a difficult economic situation we are really dealing rationally, that when there is no means for some I would say and much more important things that are not given for some that could... more importantly. And this is really in that sense when we look at it as acceptable. But acceptable as a principle. It's very justified, it's popular but I'd dare say a little populist. The difference between popular and populist is very small or shades are very, very small. So this is understandable on the one hand but it's populist in that it's legally questionable and what I would say now is another thing in substance looking at, not quite fully elaborated and it's two aspects. The proposal for a conclusion if you read it says to ban donations. What about sponsorship? Most funds go to sponsorships, not donations. What about it? So this is what he wants to send out to the public, so we're fighting for rational costs, but we're not fighting until the end, no one will recognize it. Well, he'll recognize it. So, what about sponsorship? It's not here, and most of the funds don't go as donations, they go as sponsorships. But people don't tell the difference between donations and sponsorship, because... you give someone money irreparably without any favor, and there's some sort of counterservice in sponsorship. You say I'm giving you money, and you're going to advertise me in this form or that form. And most of these funds from the public sector go as sponsorships. Of course I am, and we are about to introduce order, that there is no waste of money, to be careful how much it is given and who it is given to, and why it is given. And we should all be saving at this hour. So I am and this ruling majority and the government is against waste, but now I'm going to ask another question. Is everything that is given into culture, technical culture, sports, and even human purposes eating all the waste? Let's not fall into that trap that everything we give is a waste of money and a waste of money. It's not. Recently, I had a case that I met in a public company that should have been suggested whether one particular means to buy a medicine for a child who could not live without this medicine. There's none of us who'd say he's against it. And if they accept such a decision, it could no longer be. We couldn't help it because there was such a conclusion here in the House that it couldn't work. Therefore, I am to introduce rationality into spending but not an absolute ban even if it were legally possible, and we see that it is not legally possible. Because if that didn't happen in line with that folk saying, "We throw out a child with dirty water," and that could happen here. So is each giving is every expense in culture, science, technical culture, sport socially unacceptable? This malt conclusion doesn't go that way, that it's unacceptable because you're giving money for what it doesn't need. if it is unacceptable why we finance it from the budget of units of local self-government, state etc.? So you need to make this simple how to tell the line that is difficult to underline and say you don't need to give money into what is irrational, especially to those who treat these funds fairly not in a transparent way and in large quantities etc. But we also don't have to ban everything because we're going to ban something that we would very easily agree here that we shouldn't be banned, and you suggested that we ban it. So to end or reduce irrational spending yes, but not to abolish support. And whose job is that? And there... it's the tasks of management, supervisory boards, congregations, these companies, agencies, administrative bodies, etc. They have to take care of it. Any company if we talk about it in its business plan must have as much as planned for donations as for sponsorships and comas. There is the responsibility of the administration, there is the responsibility of the supervisory boards, there is the responsibility of the congregations of these societies to prevent it if it is irrational and if it is unnecessary and it is necessary to do so. Why have we had such a bad situation so far? Because the administrations of the past, the supervisory boards and the congregations did not see it, however, favourably supported it, and such enormous spending and stupidity were taking place in the opening presentation, or by the promoters. Against that, of course we are. I believe and believe most of it here, and the government has shown this by now that it is against irrational spending, that it is rational, for the first time we have reduced the budget and therefore are having sex in all places, there will be cuttings safely and here and there will be no irrational spending, and that is the task exactly of the management, the supervisory boards, the assembly of these societies that are so rationally related, that they do not adopt in their plans a great donation for which there is no justification, but also that not every possibility and every one of the least and every one of 500 municipalities, cities and so on. that someone of his company can't give something for humanitarian purposes either in cultural or in sports, even symbolically. This should not be prohibited, it is also impossible to prohibit, therefore legally impossible but should not be but also rational in business should certainly be. Therefore, companies owned by the state, cities and municipalities must not act as drunk billionaires, share money with a cap and a fist, especially some clubs around which they are written every day as suspiciously spending these money, etc., but that does not mean that any activity in that direction should be banned. When it comes to the second segment of this proposal, the conclusion, when it comes to public sector employees, companies, etc., is the same thing. Of course they should share the fate of all employees in Croatia that when people do not get absurd it is that someone can use something that has nothing to do with it, which is neither a legal obligation nor a collective contract. We're all for not having that. And there is again the responsibility of the administration of these institutions, institutions, agencies, companies not to do so. If that happens here we're going to discuss why this is happening, and we're going to call it concretely, and that's where it happened, and then we're going to call for responsibility. Of course, it's our job to do it here and act like it, and theirs that have been trusted to manage... the resources of these citizens and this state to behave responsibly. [[You don't understand.]] So, to finish up, let everyone do their job. The boards and boards of directors should do their job, let the administrations be responsible, let the supervisory boards control, and we here to control everything that happens and not to say on behalf of some mild pulsism or what, let's ban everything and what we can't, and not really need. Because I'm saying, we would certainly agree that in some things, everyone here would raise their hand and say that, well, we should help when it comes to humanitarian things and other things, and in this case, if we could make a conclusion like this that we couldn't, we wouldn't be able to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7509	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7510	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This conclusion that was made here behind the pay phone on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club is really in doubt. Immediately after reading this conclusion I remembered my participation in the work of the Supervisory Board of the Waterway Slavonski Brod where they... at each meeting of the Supervisory Board, there were 20 to 30 written requests and requests for sponsorship, donation, either from cultural and artistic societies, either from voluntary fire departments, sports clubs and individuals seeking assistance for their sick child, for operations abroad, etc. [[You don't understand.]] For the first time, I was on some board of supervisors, and I asked the director of the firm, so it's a good thing it's, like, 20 requests. No amount, some have amounts and payments already delivered, 1000 kn, 2000 kn, 3000 kn, etc. What kind of practice is it, so it says it's given to everyone a little bit, etc. So I said that then the Vodavod, so the company owned by the town of Slavonski Brod, lives and survives and does business at all when every supervisory board, or session of the Supervisory Board, we approve, and I was the president who signed it, approves certain funds for sponsorship and donations to humanitarian, cultural events, for help in sports, science, culture, technical culture, etc. And the answer of the wise director of the waterworks was that and that's how it goes for these citizens who participate and there at some event in folklore, to organize a fire-fighting event, so it's people, these people who use those to say in this case small funds, they used it. They organized something, they did something about it. And whoever pays the compensation for the water, the same people. So some of the funds came back to those who were actually paying that same water to the water company in Slavonski Brod and went to some benefit to the citizens again. One cyclic round of slaughtering some kind of means. Now, it's a good question of transparency in spending that money. Here are the disastrous and terrible examples where the godmothers for fitness were given, or I don't know what it's not called, massages and saunas, but I have also come across such a case in my waterworks in Slavonski Brod and I would never approve of it if such a thing had been sought. So I say, with a really big doubt, I am looking at this conclusion that would require the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a regulation banning all such donations and sponsorships and institutions of the state interest of 160, of which in Slavonia I stress only 8 of them, only 8. I can count them since there aren't many of them, so Borovo, Đuro Đaković, Bizovačka spa, Vupik was, IPK Osijek, the port of Vukovar, here are a few more. Therefore, this regulation would indeed be in full sense a decree, a decree by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the ban on any issue of money to companies in humanitarian, sports, cultural or other values. And what exactly would we accomplish with that? Therefore, the objective of both this conclusion and some future regulation would be to regulate this area in which relatively large financial amounts are spent. How to arrange, by regulation, or by haste in some procedure here in the Parliament, even though it is touched by more laws and legal matter. How to arrange to get transparent, clear, and useful spending of such money? That's why there's doubt, that's the doubt. E if we had faith in these supervisory committees which are clearly influenced by the directors, directors, etc. and his connections and if we didn't doubt it and if we didn't see obvious examples of malfeasance in spending that money, then there wouldn't be any problem. However, given the amount of money, given the companies that are in losses and which are supported by the Croatian State and citizens of the Republic's budget, they spend on some donations and intransparently, some sports clubs that are privately owned. So if it's privately owned, let that private sponsor and hold his sports club if he cares about it, and no Croatian railways, HEP or I don't know who helps. You're right about that. But on the other hand, I personally signed in such a small company that is of city importance hundreds of help to sick children, those who seek salvation in treatment even abroad, etc. What kind of man or those men on the board that would turn down people like that? And those who asked for that help, and they pay for, say, that water and spend that water, and the neat ones paid for the water. I'm speaking from a personal example, maybe that's the closest. Now, here I believe that you're spinning your head and you're in doubt as to the conclusion that the government itself is simply a regulation, so with one decree it's all over and it's gone. Of course, the state and especially state-owned companies, we're aware and we're witnessing a serious crime of painting tunnels twice that I don't speak now and I'm not counting what wasn't working here and how it happened, how the bags were worn but not for these purposes. So there were also these things that would have entered the sphere of crime but it's enough, I'm quite certain I'm divided where it worked well, the shared funds that were needed for the citizens who made this society, who paid for both electricity and water and travel by rail, pay for the train ticket, etc. That is why, in any case, the idea of this, of making such a conclusion and editing of this matter, so as an idea, is excellent, but it is by one regulation that would actually be a form of decree simply not yet possible, but needs to be found yet, as they say, to collect heads and find the right solution or to support some kind of control that would then be controlled, control the spending of that money and determine the ceiling of spending that money. I ran the projects according to one insurance policy, the insurance company somewhere in December one, a few years ago. They told me I couldn't accept your sponsorship for a cultural and artistic society because we've already spent all the money that was planned for sponsorship and solved it. Report in January for next year. This insurance company is private and it has its turn, obviously. So, it has its turn, it has its censorship that has decided to spend on these purposes. When I showed up at 11, November or December they said no more, spent for this year but report in January and run for next year. But I had to go to another address. So the HDSSB club agrees with your proposal that this matter, that this spending and malfeasance are actually in the spending of money and state-owned enterprises both of the state-owned and of the companies of regional and local self-government that they own, cities, municipalities and counties to arrange. But with this regulation, it would hit a lot of people with this sudden twisting of the pipe, and that would be why, as the HDSSB club, I say in this doubt for the time being, you'd be restrained and you'd be abstention. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7511	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7512	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought I'd come forward sooner to correct the wrong allegations, but I gave up since I knew I was going with an individual debate. First of all, I would say to my colleague Grubisic when we went with the bill, we went with the aim of living and in general, I guess that the goal of every citizen in this country is to live in a regulated state, in a rule of law where, in the end of the day, the state works in every respect. It's about the budget money. Therefore, we cannot talk about being deprived of someone’s right to treatment, humanitarian aiding that treatment. There should be resources in the Ministry of Health, someone else who's already been in charge, not in this way that we're going to be spraying on the ashes, so let's say ok. This is the humanitarian reason why the pipeline in Sisak, not to be in Slavonski Brod, will set aside funds for the treatment of a child in Sisak. But we will all agree that the treatment of this child should only be financed from which means it is questionable. And with the treatment of that child, we're also getting past the funding of football clubs, locals that have no results, but they're the motherly love of local politicians towards these clubs. Well, then we have a donation, sponsorship, or whatever it's called. The funds go uncontrollably, and this same water line pays minimum wages to its workers, that same water line in the water reduction from 23% did not go with a reduction in the price for end-users or builders, but neatly left the same money in terms of donation or sponsorship to some local football club that does not have. And that's where you lose control of every further flow of that money. What my colleague Grubisic said, if locals love these clubs so much to pay their own funds, no one will blame them. We'll all be grateful, though. In the final case, the case I mentioned VAT on water, which is why if they were already collected, they would not return to the budget. I believe there are projects on the water line that should be completed, which should be financed. The rejection of these conclusions practically sends a message to the authorities that it is not in the interest of the functioning of the rule of law in the full sense of the word. There is also an uncontrollable collapse of that money, and that is budget money, and let's call it a real dictionary, it's silenced, it's lurking on crime. We had the same situation when we were talking about a mini tax-law package, a mini tax-law package, when we proposed certain changes, so they were rejected just because they came from our side. Now we have, I can really caricate this one to the end, and now we have a situation where tax officials outside the bank will wait for potential thieves and since the police busy with the Adriaticman and similar firms and just find out that the thief who comes out of the bank with the newly acquired property has to pay taxes on that property is still all clean. In the opinion of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which proposes to reject the proposed conclusions, the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is somewhat hypocritical. The government has a lot of funding opportunities, and we really don't see any reason why this fund was dragged into this story. The government further states in its opinion that this, I quote, is "the fostering of sport, technical culture, culture and science, and in particular humanitarian actions in the interest of not only the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional, or regional self-government, but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia". So where did we say it wasn't an interest? We're simply being put into our mouths by something we haven't said anywhere, but in the rule of law, it's being financed in a completely different way. There is the Law on Sports, the Law on Science, the Law on Technical Culture and all these laws can be defined by the way these activities are financed. However, it is obvious that there is no will, there is no desire simply to be sent a message regardless of what the Constitution says that we are all the same that we are not all the same. Because we have heard that some are being paid out of housing loans, some are being paid off on state budget loans while others will be forced to be technologically surpluses because restructuring translated into Croatian means firing extra workers and nothing else. And simply the companies that pay off such donations are in front of bankruptcy, in an extremely bad situation, we have to consolidate them, we have to reorganize them, I don't know what we don't have to do there, reduce the number of employees, and on the other hand, when drunk billionaires say we share a hand and a hat and it's out of control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7513	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7514	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm using the Replica Institute to exchange views. So I don't agree with this view of yours that giving funds to individual, in this case and sports, collectives is a waste of money. I must remind you of the fact that many of our villages are first and foremost here in Slavonia and Baranja but throughout the Republic of Croatia today have been brought almost empty, life rests. There are only a few pillars of life left in our villages. They revolve around your church, around voluntary fire companies, around schools if they have schools, sports collectives and cultural arts societies. The situation in the country is so difficult that local self-government units and regional self-government units do not have enough resources to keep them alive and life support pillars in our small villages. Even if we were to go now with this acceptance of such a proposal to ban donations, understandably those companies that do positive business, and with strict control and supervision of these donations, we just need to change the criteria and control the spending of these funds, then we would really come into a position to be in all the villages, without these donations, many sports collective football clubs, so these are places of gathering of young people, better to socialise and gather in sports collectives in cultural art societies, to go to churches than to go to restaurants. If we shut it all down then we'll get into a situation where we won't have, that life will really die. And I'm going to finish, so no donations if companies do negative business, if I can make donations I don't see why these companies can't, but with strict control and provided they have a positive business. There you go, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7515	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7516	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At no point did I say that giving money to local sports clubs is a waste of money but the fact is that there's a waste of money just because there's no control. And when we proposed these conclusions, I quote that "we are trying the rule of law". In that case, the funds would go legitimately transparent, knowing from which funds, which the ministry covers certain resources, would be known. This is how donations go without cover, to be paid to a local football club without further control of that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7517	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7518	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. What Mr. colleague from the Croatian Labours suggests is that these coins that are not often defined, and sums, these sums are not defined to be paid or returned to the state budget especially from companies owned by cities or county. Well, that would mean a new centralization of a part of the funds. So who would decide that money? I guess this shit happens or I don't know how I shake. So he would share us, and as Slavonia passes, we would indeed be in worse shape than we are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7519	Replication response, Mr. Agent Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7520	I'll be very brief. I wasn't talking about the state budget. I was talking about the local budgets. So if it's a local water line, it's paid for by local means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7521	Thank you. We still have two individual debates, but we said that at 12:00, otherwise we would gather and vote on Fridays. Now I'm just asking that if you agree to have these discussions if they're really very brief, if not then we'll stop the debate, so we'll continue when. I ask Mr. Tušak and Mrs. Tomasic and Mr. Tušak briefly. Here you go, Mr. Shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7522	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I'll be very brief if my colleagues have said enough. We are at one point in a very sensitive social moment in Croatia where 20 thousand workers do not receive pay, where 120 thousand workers have no taxes and contributions, we have over 330 thousand unemployed at the Employment Office, we have more and more citizens digging through the container are able to survive in some way and we have companies that spend some of the money on certain activities. First of all, I want to draw attention here and that is Croatia's electricity industry. My colleagues and colleagues talked about it, it's 23 million kunas that are meant for certain activities, and the power increase came to us by 30%, today nobody thinks and nobody asks about those citizens who won't be able to pay their bills and what happens to those citizens? Who's gonna donate these citizens money so they don't cut the power? How will they survive, and what situation do they face? I won't go any further, but I wanted to draw attention to the seriousness of the moment and the seriousness of the moment. Croatian Labourists have proposed these conclusions in this part, primarily by counting on the need to be socially sensitive and that we need to think about normal citizens who will not be able to survive in this situation with those incomes that are below some social limit that ensure that they can meet their basic needs of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7523	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Ms. Representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7524	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's also very short. I support the proposal for a conclusion where the transparency of donations is sought especially of state money because we know that some are given with a hand and a hat, some on a drop, and some even that. As far as you're concerned about football teams, we especially know those of us who live on the island that we give out our pockets for these football teams, and especially as judges, delegates come so far as to be paid, not to take judges and delegates from the neighborhood but to pay. So we who are members or presidents of these clubs give out our pockets. When I said it was shared by hand and hat, some on the hood, some not a bit, here you have the Knight's Association "Cumpania" from the island of Korčula, which is also a historical unit, they went to Rome to represent Croatia, so they represented all of Croatia. They prayed to the Ministry of Tourism, prayed to the Croatian Tourist Community, prayed to the Ministry of Culture, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, received 4 thousand kuna in all. So now those local administrations and self-government or state-owned companies that buy players, pay these players to imagine that those little people who really need that money don't get anything, but in this case they get only 4 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7525	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Proposer, it's still final. Here you go, Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7526	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. Just one note, these conclusions Croatian Labour Party does not propose bans. It is certainly the wrong perception to reduce the money of users by abolishing the ban on donations to public companies. No, it would increase the money to the users. We're looking for control. The directors of public companies are absolutely certain that they are not authorized and that they do not have the criteria by which they share that money, and that is now evident in the examples that we have said and absolutely certain that during the night, all these people will not change their habits. Those who need money and those users mentioned by Mrs Tomasic certainly get more, not less, in order to distribute money in this way. So it is a great error to argue here that Croatian Labourists want the end-users of those who really need money to lose that money. No, there'd be more money. Money laundering would be contained, and crime would be contained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7527	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote something later. We move to the Proposal for a conclusion on the restriction of the use of funds in legal persons of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and local, or regional (regional) self-government and public institutions. The debate is concluded, and in accordance with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - the proposal for a conclusion on the restriction of the use of funds in legal persons of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and the local, or regional (regional) self-government and public institutions proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Party for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by most votes, 80 votes in favour, 5 against and 25 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7530	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Republic of Croatia, as a responsible member of the International Community, is ready to join the UN peacekeeping mission as it has done many times before. As you know, current members of the Armed Forces are participating in six UN peacekeeping missions and a total of about 117 members are involved. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes that members of the Armed Forces join this road and the peacekeeping mission, which has covered the UN Security Council Resolution of 21 April 2012 entitled "United Nations Supervision Mission in Syria" that the mission will include 300 non-military observers, including civilian personnel, depending on the needs. The reasons why this mission was established by the Security Council resolution are primarily a desire to end the armed conflict in the Syrian Arab Republic, to establish peace and access to protection of human rights. What most might ask is what are the reasons why the Republic of Croatia has accepted the UN's call to participate in this peacekeeping mission? The reasons can come down to double reasons. The first are political reasons, because in our recent past we have witnessed the need for the UN to come to the area of the Republic of Croatia as a function of peace. One of the other reasons is one of the economic reasons why it is in the interest of the Republic of Syria to become a stable state so that our economic interests can continue to develop there. The implementation of this mission has provided financial resources in the Ministry of Defence’s 2012 financial plan, and it is equally possible for this mission to be financed in 2013 as seen from the 2013 budget projection. For your information, the cost per member to be sent to Syria is 250,000 kuna per year, and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a proposal for a decision to be sent to the UN Peace Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic in 2012 and 2013 to 10 members of the armed forces in the capacity of military observers, with the possibility of rotating and equally obliging the Ministry of Defence to report once a year to the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members in this peacekeeping mission. It is also important to note that the President of the Republic, as commander-in-chief, has also given prior consent to the proposal for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7531	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone on behalf of the working bodies want anyone? No, I don't. Then we'll have a club debate. Mr Tomislav Ivić, president of the Defence Committee and on behalf of the HDZ Club, answered the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7532	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces in the UN Peace Mission in the Syrian Arab Republic. As we know, the Security Council adopted Resolution 2043 establishing a peacekeeping mission to be completed by the number of 300 unarmed military observers, with up to 10 members of the armed forces in Croatia in 2012 and 2013. Of course there are significant reasons I would say political, economic reasons for making this decision and therefore, as I said, we will support this decision. It should also be said that the vast majority of EU countries will also participate in this UN mission, that Croatia has significant economic interests in Syria above all, and that this will naturally be appreciated to valorise the participation of the Republic of Croatia in this mission. In this way, Croatia will once again show that from a country that has recently been an object in international politics it becomes an entity that significantly contributes to stabilising and establishing peace across the globe in different EU missions. And as I said in the end, once again, the HDZ Club will support this motion for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7533	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7534	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister. The HNS Club will support this proposal for a decision, but we have proposed an amendment that would briefly explain it. As regards the proposal itself and the intention of the Republic of Croatia to send its officers to this peacekeeping mission, I consider it justified for one simple reason, which also the previous speaker of his colleague, the president of the Assembly's Defence Committee and presented, which is that, unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia was one of the countries that had experienced war not long ago, all the horrors that such a state brings to society, and that at that time we were at least partially protected by the participation of peacekeeping missions in our territory. And if such a peace mission prevents only one loss of human life only one burning house less, only one exile less then every effort and every effort of a civilized country, a country that has in its historical roots a deeply embedded human line that effort is necessary and appropriate. According to what is written quite quickly in this material, Croatia currently has 117 members in 6 UN-sponsored missions and this proposal proposes that 10 of our officers go to Syria. It should be true, Croatia, apart from the need to repay the international community, has a very clear economic national interest in the area of the Republic of Syria and this is the second function of our people who need to go to this thorny area. But we send people, we don't send numbers, we send Croatian army officers who, given the real time distance from the Homeland War, are probably young people without the necessary combat experience, we send them as unarmed observers. For this reason, as a HNS club, we have made an amendment to the 2nd point of this decision, which reads: "The Ministry of Defence undertakes to report once a year to the Croatian Parliament's Defence Committee on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peacekeeping mission referred to in point 1 of this decision", so Mission in Syria. Given the situation that the government in the Republic of Syria and the already seen splendor in which events are developing, unfortunately in this thorny area, the HNS Club believes that we must take as a Parliament more care of the status of our people on that ground. For this reason, in the amendment, we proposed that a report be sent to the Assembly Committee once quarterly, although it is small. Because I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the next fact. This is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has the consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia Prof. Dr. Ivo Josipovic, who is commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, but the decision to send our people and our officers to the area of war operations is made to me by the Croatian Parliament. We are obliged to monitor what is happening to these people and we are the ones who, if their safety is threatened, will make a decision, regardless of what the Minister thought and what the President of the Republic of Croatia thought of their extraction. We are responsible for 10 Croatian officers and officers. Therefore, I ask you to accept the content of this amendment, but also that a new custom has arisen in practice here, since we are the ones responsible for the safety of our people outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia to take more account and follow closely what is happening to these peace missions. Thank you very much. Once again, the HNS will support this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7535	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7536	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Croatia in missions, military missions in the world today has about 500 soldiers, over 300 of them in Afghanistan, and then this number, according to actions by the United Nations, is deployed to other parts. Even in Syria, Croatia already has soldiers. In fact, we know that and we voted recently and the Croatian Parliament voted for the presence of Croatian soldiers at the Golan High. There is a formal-law dispute between Syria and Israel on this area, but before the war of Syria or the Arab world it belonged to Syria. Therefore, Croatia already has soldiers at Golanska visorna i.e. in Syria. It is said that those who have debated before me, that this is a politically very thorny area, with numerous forces of world and power and some other forces run by multinational companies and corporations, and that all the expensive fractures in the Arab world are here after Tunisia, Libya and Egypt, now and in the Arab Republic of Syria or the Syrian Arab Republic, however you will. In addition to being a boisterous political area, it is an area of intense war operations, a very cruel one war and war destruction. The HDSSB and in previous discussions when we sent it, when it was decided to send our troops, it was against it in principle, so it's against it now. Although it is said in this proposal that it will be unarmed observers and up to 10 of them, we know well and teaches us the history of escalating and evaluating the number and role of observers from unarmed to armed and then the outcome of that war within the Arab Republic of Syria is completely uncertain. And what they should be there as GONG observers, what they should look at in such dangerous and fiery war areas as the current situation in Syria. So, we sent 100 soldiers to Afghanistan first, and now it's 300 soldiers and over 300 soldiers. The Norwegian general who was sent to Syria in a group of 30 observers said he had few and 1,000 observers, that it was a minimum that required the control of conflicts and control of warring parties in Syria, and then after 2, 4 or 8 months we will discuss here in the Assembly sending additional numbers of soldiers and officers to Syria. It is said that the funds are secured in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, so that they will be ensured if we haven't talked about it before the adoption of the budget or talked about it, but it appeared as some kind of new, almost urgent need to send 2 Croatian, up to 10 Croatian observers to Syria. That was not the case when the budget was adopted and the defence ministry's budget was adopted. Is this about some kind of internal redistribution I don't know. Austria and Slovakia are European countries, EU members, members of the NATO Pact that refused to participate in such a mission. I don't know if NATO is a pact, Austria is somehow standing, but I say they refused to participate in such a mission, sending soldiers into this area. As I said at first, for all these reasons, the HDSSB club is against sending Croatian soldiers into this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7537	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7538	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's what my colleague Ivić said on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, HDZ supports this decision and I would just like to remind you of a few things. The issue of the participation of our members of the Armed Forces in international missions has raised the reputation of the Republic of Croatia in international relations. This is an observation mission, and this should be highlighted by unarmed observers. And what the Croatian public definitely knows and must know is that it is about missions that are, it would not be possible that there is no agreement of all sides including the current Syrian government. Seconded personnel on this mission except...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7539	.../Intruder Šmrem: Please just limit yourself to correcting the incorrect quote. You're out of time for correction. Finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7540	Okay, I wanted to help. In any case, when it comes to sending observers to international missions, if we remember the 1990s, we will remember how fierce the debates were in the parliaments of countries where there were resistances for observers, and later peacemakers come to these premises. It's not an easy decision anywhere. She's all over the place with risk. However, I think, and I also said this morning on the board that this is a matter that is not exclusively a matter of defence resistors, but that should also be discussed on the Committee on Foreign Policy and simply provide more quality information. Because this is not enough time in some Zeit note for this complicated situation to be recommunicated in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7541	I know that Mr. Prosecutor used the correction of the incorrect allegations for the debate, even if he could take the debate so that he could apply, he could still apply. But okay, that's how it is now. The beginning of this call is still, you know. We try to be tolerant, but to everyone. So, Mr. Councilman Grubisic, what you've been protesting, I've seen. But I'm letting you talk a minute more, two minutes more. All right, thanks. Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the HNS club, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7542	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am, on behalf of the HNS Club, must express my surprise. Namely, that the distinguished representative Grubisic and his colleagues from the HDSSB come from another region, not from Slavonia, which suffered severe casualties during the Homeland War, then perhaps I would understand their decision to vote against. I may also have instilled professional deformation as a seaman, for we are in a code when someone is in danger of making decisions that they ignore and our personal safety and the safety of the ships we command. The need to help those in need is a priority in the maritime world. I remember the time of the Homeland War, and in the area where I have spent years as a defender, and the war year and Jordanian battalion, a battalion that has come from just this three-way area where we are now sending our people to help, which has been found countless times in the heart of military operations in the region of Dalmatia, which has divided countless times the warring sides by putting themselves at risk, which has intervened countless times in humanitarian actions by pulling civilians out. I'm not sure if it was Syrian or not, but it was the Jordanians. And I don't think that changes things. For us in the Croatian People's Party burning home, exiled civilian, crying child without parents and disabled civilian or warless regardless of whether he is Croatian, Syrian, Chinese has equal weight. It is a basic civilizational reach which ladies and gentlemen through the work of this Parliament, among other things, we must install into Croatian society. It is our responsibility to make decisions that will go that way. We do not have the right to look exclusively at our own interests, and even less to see this decision in the context of budgetary resources. If we'd gotten there, we'd have been deeply concerned about our destiny. For this reason, finally, this is the ladies and gentlemen of the topic that is not discussed in a civilised country, which is the heritage of all the moral values of Western civilization. I think I've made myself clear. For this reason, the HNS will once again stress the vote for this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7543	We have first the correction of Mr Bora Grubisic's incorrect allegations. Do you, Mr. Buric, make the same correction to an incorrect quote, in the back. Okay. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7544	Mr. HNS about civilization, don't talk. Furthermore, from aggression, the great Serbian aggression saved us from any observers or those armed, and they were not from Syria, but were exclusively Jordanian, Argentinaese and some were soldiers here. Therefore, had it not been for Croatian defenders and the Croatian Army to defend Croatia's observers, and it was armed a little tomorrow. I am not coming here to represent Slavonia's interests, but to speak Croatian and to come from Croatia. If you think that's not Croatia, that's another thing. And that Slavonia defended where you were and that 17 Croatian defenders from Slavonia died in Kasic about it at some other time. I'll interpret it a little bit later. Unfortunately, some things from the HNS are not clear to you, because you need to see and spread interests, but also Croatian interests. And two observers, if they don't save Syria, two Croatians, then no one will save them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7545	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7546	I thank Mr. President, so I must react and correct the incorrect assumption that in civilised societies in such places, the Croatian Parliament is not at all considering such things. So I don't know if you're aware of the importance of the sentence you've spoken. No, there is no topic not only in Croatia but also in the whole world that we in the Croatian Parliament are not obliged to discuss, especially when it comes to the question of potential endangering the lives of Croatian citizens. Therefore, Mr. Representative, for the second time before you reach for such a sentence structure, think carefully that you, like all of us here, are representatives of the Croatian Parliament who answer to the citizens and to the citizens we represent here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7547	Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the draft decision is closed. The amendment was filed by the HNS Representatives' Club. I ask that the Deputy Secretary of Defense, Mrs. Tafra, be made aware of the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7548	Thank you, Mr. President. Compared to the proposed amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, we believe that we can accept it, but in a way that the Ministry of Defence reports twice a year to the Croatian Parliament Committee on this peace mission, if you agree. We think that's enough and maybe I haven't told you in my own explanation that the Security Council Resolution says that after 90 days, an assessment will be made of whether the mission has been an initial success and whether its follow-up will follow. We think it is enough twice a year for the Croatian Parliament Committee to report on the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-04-0.u7549	Thank you very much. Proposer of the amendments, Mr... Thank you very much. [[Speakers speaking in the same voice do not understand.]] [[Intruder: We accept the explanation.]] So you agree with this correction, and then the amendment is not 3 but 6 months. It does say quarterly, but that means it's 3. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. The decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 7, paragraph 6. - So 76 votes. I'm asking who's for the motion decision to raise your hand. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 91 votes for, 5 against and 3 abstentions, a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Macedonia in the UN peacekeeping mission in the Syrian Arab Republic has been taken in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted.
