ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8168	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. It is next - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law, first reading, P.Z. No. 77 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Boris Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8169	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The situation of 51 billion tax debt, the general insolvency of the economy, the inefficiency of the collection, the intransparency and unfair competition manifested in the non-payment of public giving represent the fact that we are standing before us to solve them, and one way to address the above issues is to continue the reform of tax acts in order to increase transparency and consolidate the economy. The follow-up to the reform is seen through the draft law amending and supplementing the General Tax Law, which proposes the following essential changes: the addition of Article 8. The OPZ, which extends the Institute of Tax Secrets, allows the Tax Administration to publish a list of taxpayers who meet the legal criteria prescribed without the taxpayer's consent. A legal personality breach institute is then introduced in the administrative procedure to determine the abuse of rights in the tax-debt relationship. It introduces a legal breakthrough of the tax debtor's due claim to the state budget, which at the same time has recorded obligations on behalf of the tax debt. And the possibility is introduced that, due to the conditions of general insolvency and easier collection of existing obligations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in exceptional cases where this is of interest to the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance to make a decision on the settlement of the tax debt by applying real estate. In order to improve the tax system, in particular to encourage taxpayers to meet their tax-based obligations in a timely manner, to achieve greater efficiency in the collection of debt by this basis and to ensure the confidence of citizens in the operation of the rule of law, respect for the legal order is assessed in order to enable the public publication of the list of taxpayers who have the highest amount of the total tax debt on the basis of value added tax, income tax, income tax and cut tax, and contributions to compulsory insurance, and the total amount of debt greater than 50 thousand kuna for natural persons carrying out their registered activity, greater than the amount of 100 thousand kuna for legal persons and more than the amount of 10 thousand kuna for all other taxpayers. Public publication of the data based on the records available by the Tax Administration on those taxpayers who failed to settle their tax debts in due time and affecting the awareness of all taxpayers of the necessity and participation in the settlement of tax debts, which is determined for the functioning of the rule of law, the possibility of taking measures necessary to promote economic development and social well-being and the confidence of citizens in the rule of law, i.e. respecting the legal order and respecting the principles which impose public morality on equality, justice and even distribution of the tax burden. The list would refer only to a certain part of the taxpayers according to the abovementioned criteria on the type of tax and to the total amount of outstanding debt, taking into account that the census included the qualitatively and quantitatively most significant cases of non-payment of tax debts, in particular having the most negative budgetary impact. The legal norm is quite clear and predictable, so the taxpayer who does not pay the amount of the tax and fulfils the legal requirements for the publication of the tax debt is fully aware of the legal consequences of such conduct of the failure of the legal obligation to meet the payment of the tax obligation in due time. In the light of the above, the taxpayer who did not pay the established tax-based debt has not been placed in an uncertain legal situation. The effects of his failure to meet the legal obligation to pay the tax debt in due time are predictable and certain. The second essential assumption relates to the introduction of a legal personality breakthrough institute in order to implement the procedure for determining the abuse of rights in a tax-debt relationship. The Institute of Legal Identity is examined through the following examples – the opening of new companies to avoid paying the dues, the withdrawal of assets and assets through the loans and loans of the company by members of the company, thus disabling the company to pay its obligations, the conduct of the company’s business in a way that obligations are created for one company, and the revenues for another company, the payment of the income in spite of the company’s indifference, the sending of creditors to pay the claim to a private account of the members of the company instead of the company. In order to avoid such cases, it is proposed to amend and supplement the OAZ in such a way as to transpose the general provision of the Company Act governing the liability of company members to all creditors and supplement it in view of the specificities of the tax debt relationship. The establishment of the abuse of rights in the administrative procedure is part of the regular control and tax collection process in which financial discipline and liability are sought for the taxpayer who has taken harmful actions and of the taxpayer to whom he has transferred benefits from harmful actions or who has otherwise been a participant of harmful actions. Presumptions for the breach of legal personality are carried out only after the inability to settle in the executive procedure by the debtors, so all the measures of the exercise are exhausted, only when the liability assumptions have been met, means lawfully prescribed abuses in business and only when there is an extraction of benefits on the one hand, and the damage done on the other. The amendments and amendments to the CAP will ensure the position of the State as creditors of the tax debt relationship, increase the level of liability of persons legally and truly responsible for the conduct of the company’s business and, as regards the fulfilment of the tax obligation, bring them equal to other entrepreneurs on the market, stop the abuse of rights and carry out an effective collection of persons and companies benefiting from or benefiting from whom the prohibited access to the tax authority as a believer and to the damages of budgetary revenues and other public charges has been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8170	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. .../Yes./... yes. Here you go. The Finance Committee, Mr. Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8171	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Finance Committee discussed the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament at the 9th session held on 04.05.2012 a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law. So, in the opening debate, you heard from the government's representatives, that is, the Ministry of Finance, and I will just point out a few of the facts that have been presented in the committee's debate as opinions, observations and proposals of this bill. Therefore, the proposed criteria for the publication of a list of taxpayers who have an outstanding tax debt should also include a time scale to better protect the credibility of the Tax Administration itself, and create assumptions that no taxpayer is unjustly published on the public list due to the failure to comply with his tax obligations. Furthermore, it is noted that this law must be correct to entrepreneurs in the sense that the obligations of state and state-owned companies in relation to the currencies of payment and settlement are paid to entrepreneurs in due time so that they do not become the cause that entrepreneurs are not able to pay their tax obligations and be named because of their debts. It should also be kept in mind that entrepreneurs who conduct litigation due to their claims, otherwise the orderly tax salaries are not published on the list of taxpayers due to non-compliance with their tax obligations. Also, the opinion is that tax debt is a major problem for the state because about 50 billion kuna is not charged, and this is estimated to account for half of that debt. It is therefore necessary to adopt the proposed amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8172	Thank you very much. Other committees. I'm opening a debate, first on behalf of the clubs, on behalf of SDP's distinguished colleague, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The occurrence of non-payments in Croatia has taken alarming proportions over the past few years. Non-payment creates a payment disorder, financially destroys healthy business tissue, means unfair competition, and in relation to orderly pay, and when it happens between public and private sectors it can also point to corruption. The increasing levels of unsettled debts in the economic sector have inevitably affected the increasing debt to the state, and they relate to taxes, tax debts, government and public debt. This situation has been going on for years, and so have regulations that have not adequately protected the creditors, but have not been effectively responded by the state and its institutions in the case of the State of Believer, but when the State and the debtor did not give an example of the orderly one. The unsettled commitments doubled at the time of the crisis, but no effective measures were taken to remove those entities that are unable to survive, or to remove parts that do not have the ability to operate. Official data are being monitored for unfulfilled obligations which have been declared, or blocked, but a large part of such obligations are not recorded because debtors, or even creditors, do not report them. The latest published figures for March 2012 speak of 42.43 billion outstanding payments relating to 72959 business entities, and 13.08 billion kuna related to 212317 citizens. Business entities are dominated by legal persons with 52% or 83% of the total amount of outstanding payment obligations, of which 75% of business entities are in a long-term blockade with an amount of 82%, and 37% have been blocked for five and more years, which means they really have no chance of continuing their business. The state by law on three occasions allowed taxpayers to regulate their obligations, but the effects were small. In order for entrepreneurs to be in a level playing field in rights and obligations, the state must ensure effective control mechanisms, as well as sanctioning, and the judiciary is able to resolve cases on an up-to-date basis. Therefore, it is not enough for the state to be neat in its claims and debts, but must provide it to all entrepreneurs and citizens. When it comes to state claims largely disputed for payment, the Tax Administration recorded 51,037 billion kuna among 761, 365 taxpayers, of which 17 billion are related to interest. The legal person refers to 60% of the debt, to natural persons who carry out registered activities in 18 and to citizens as many as 22%. If there is a political will, such work can be completed, the current data on the collection of taxes, and in particular the contribution to salaries as soon as the supervision and penalties are announced, criminal measures for irregular taxpayers. Analyzing the causes of increasing avoidance of non-payments, many criminal acts such as these have been observed. to open new companies for the purpose of avoiding the payment of liabilities, the extraction of assets and assets by company members, the integration of companies in order to avoid payment or withdrawal of funds, the issuance of fictitious accounts, the payment of the advance of profits even though the company is unequivocally, the sending of creditors to make payments to the private account rather than to the company's account, the transfer of shares and assets to the newly established company, while the existing company remains bound and employed, the abuse of account blockages when the daughters of the company do so. These amendments to the General Tax Code introduce three significant newspapers. The first is the publication of the tax debtor, then the Institute of Legal Illicity, i.e. the introduction of a tax guarantee and the personal liability of non-paid tax debts, a breakthrough of claims and debts towards the state budget. The publication of taxpayers is made possible by amending Article 8. The general tax law, by establishing criteria by type of tax and by amount of debt, and thereby delaying or cost-effective payment, and the reprogramme is considered to be a regulated obligation. The publication of the taxable person is also possible if it provides incorrect and incomplete information by means of public communications. Such a possibility aims to strengthen financial discipline, to meet the tax obligations of all taxpayers in due time, to increase the efficiency of tax authorities at the time of collection, and thus to ensure the public in the conduct of the Tax Administration. The General Tax Law introduces the Institute for the Prosecution of Legal Personality and Personal Responsibility for the non-compliance of a tax liability based on the principles of equality, justice, prohibition of abuse of rights, awareness and honesty, the attention of a good economic operator and freedom of entrepreneurship. The members of the Board and the Executive Directors shall respond as well as to the tax guarantees if they abuse the powers which result in the inability to carry out in this case a tax liability. And members of a public company shall be liable for the obligations of the company personally, in solidarity and unlimitedly with all their assets. The responsibility arises if the company is used to achieve an objective which is therefore prohibited, which is therefore illegal, if the company is used to damage the creditors, if the opposite of the law is managed by the property as if it were its private property, if, in its own or the benefit of another person, it reduces the property of the company even though it is known that this will result in the inability to comply with the obligation. These amendments to the General Tax Code also introduce the possibility of overcoming the due debt with the claims of the debtors from the state budget, the possibility of entering into an administrative contract or a settlement for the purposes of the implementation of the solution, and the exceptional and possibility of settling the settlement of the property. I would like to say here that these days and here in the assembly but also yesterday at a session of the Croatian Employers' Association, there were estimates that the government's measures so far are a blow to entrepreneurship, that entrepreneurs are treated as criminals, that it wants to resort to a pillar of shame, that there is an anti-entrepreneurship climate in Croatia. In a difficult economic situation, measures carried out by the government unfortunately hit citizens most because the economy wanted to relieve at least part of public spending, such as A reduction in health contribution to wages, a reduction in other taxes related to forests, monumental rent, water contribution, reinvested tax-free profits, significant funds for investment in the public sector as well as in the private sector through entrepreneurial activities, as well as for crafts. Entrepreneurs are those who invest create a new value, whose job and risk is because own-capital entry they hire, pay government taxes, but there are unfortunately entrepreneurs who do not pay workers, do not pay suppliers, pay taxes and other taxes and bring business problems to their business partners. These should be put to an end, and this is, in fact, the obligation of the state, as well as of entrepreneurs, who will isolate them from business activities. We estimate that the amendment of the General Tax Law in this form will result in established objectives in the area of collecting public fees and fixing tax records. But we are warning of the urgency of the adoption and other regulations that will allow for the settlement of total liquidity and ensure normal economic business for all entrepreneurs. The SDP Club accepts amendments to the General Tax Law Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8174	I thank my colleague Zgrebec. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Labour Club will support this bill. These days, and especially yesterday from the ranks of part of Croatian employers was visible and there was great anxiety, adrenaline is maximumly high, and the severity of their public appearances has not been recorded, as was especially yesterday since the establishment of their associations, in particular I mean the Croatian Employers' Association. We made it clear but using a pillar of shame, it was clear that they refer to this bill which they consider not good for them. They called the list of taxpayers a pillar of shame. In 2002, tax debts amounted to 8 billion and 100, 2004. 21.5 billion at the beginning of the crisis in 2008. 31.7 billion, at the end or mid-2011. 46, and on behalf of the promoter, the deputy said 51 billion today. More than half of that debt was created before the crisis began. The state, meanwhile, was borrowing loans, selling government bonds, and at home, it had over 50 billion tax debts not charged, and I would add 9 billion concession claims and about 5.5 billion contribution claims. Because one day it was released that health insurance was not paid 2.8 billion, when we add a pension contribution that is about 5.5 billion. Of course, it is true that some of the entrepreneurs registered today as taxpayers could not pay. Who put them in this situation? Probably as many cases as they're on the list. And now that it's trying to make order, when taxes are charged, but also when it's being asked, and that's the last thing we've asked for, and now, the law offers to make tax debtors' data public, it's called a pillar of shame. And in the meantime, it was with workers who had been executed and due to unpaid television subscription, due to community contribution, unpaid credit. And immediately, most often without the delivery of an executive order, FINA blocks the bill, and especially those who signed such unfortunate contracts before mid-2008 and made a statement that they agreed to complete the receipts, the full salary, not 1/3 as changed by the law in 2008 but by total salaries. And today's the day of the whole payday. Were they on the pillar of shame because they were in debt? No, they get the money, their pay, they take it off the bill, and if they file a complaint or appeal, the execution continues. They told us that they were not a problem but a solution, employers. That's right. Employers who work neatly pay taxes to the state and pay workers are the solution to the problem of the economic crisis, but those who have been tax evasion and who have created a debt of 51 billion, which is almost 50% of the budget cannot be the solution to getting out of the economic crisis. They're really a problem. In his assessment of the situation, he wrote that the measures proposed that the rule of law work, protected constitutional order, secured financial discipline and helped economic progress. I would add, and that the reason for this is the public interest because the citizens of this country have the right to know who does not pay the tax, that also suppressing unfair competition among entrepreneurs is one of the most important reasons why this law must be passed and order in paying taxes, but also the introduction of social justice. Without tax discipline, we cannot talk about a society in which the same rule applies to everyone. These are the reasons why we will support this law, especially because it clearly defines that data will be made public for 50 or more thousand kunas for persons carrying out their activities, 100 thousand for legal persons and more than 10 thousand kuna of tax debt for all other tax obligations. However, one of the doubts in Article 1 of the amendment and supplementation is in the provision that both the public and that list will not contain data on taxpayers' debts granted by the tax authority to postpone or routinely pay the debt or reprogramme the payment of the tax debt. Where we link that provision to the proposed Article 9 of the amendment and supplement, which relates to Article 120, then two moments are important. In Article 9 of the amendment, there is a provision: in exceptional cases, where it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, make a decision on the full or partial settlement of the tax debt through a reduction of real estate, which is the addition of Article 120 of the law which already has a provision in its contents that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, make a decision on the sale or write-off of the tax debt from the tax-debt relationship. So the government can make a decision to sell someone's tax debt, to write it off. It is now also the right or foresees the right of the Government to settle tax debt through real estate and it is not public data. So I am problematizing and asking why the delay, the agreement on the payment of the payment, the payment of the tax debt by selling the tax debt or the settlement of the tax debt through the property of the taxpayer would not be public data at least to the Croatian Parliament. So it's not a list of shames, it's about data that must be publicly available that the government reprogrammed, the agreement on a periodical payout, the sale of real estate or the sale of a tax debt has made certain tax claims. That is, the more the matter is a rather wrinkling issue because the Government's proposal for a Minister of Finance can make such a decision. If no different, then, in its annual report at least once a year, the Government or the Ministry of Finance, the Assembly, must report on the law exercised or applied under Article 120 of the Law. Then it is transparent, clear, clean and all taxpayers are then in the same position as the public. The second question or dilemma concerns the new proposed Articles 26a and 26.b which regulate the companies of persons and shareholders, i.e. limited liability companies and clearly define their position. However, I found no provision on the responsibility of secret societies. The secret of society. Article 148 to 158. The Company Act. Does the provisions of Article 26a, 26b, 26c also apply to secret societies? That's the question for which I ask that in the obvious being that clear answer. I hope I don't have to remind anyone that according to the Company Act, such societies can exist. And one suggestion. Article 8 of the amendment relating to Article 115 provides that if the taxpayer has claims from the state budget that debt breakthroughs can be made, and that is good, and we have several times talked about the issue of breakthroughs and even general breakthroughs, we must use as a means of reducing the tax debt. But I ask why only according to the state budget? According to our information, there are quite a number of entrepreneurs who have tax obligations to local and regional self-government units, but are also asking for them. For the purposes of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. It is very important because, indeed, according to the data we have and those who have appeared warn that there are now no such situations only in the state budget but also local budgets. And by introducing such a breakthrough, I think it would make it even more easier to make the record and this god-awful list of shame but also really correct because the municipalities, the city or the county can not charge their claims to the taxpayers, but at the same time owe them for the works or services they have done. And I'll finish the next one. Finally, I hope that the business of a part of the entrepreneurs who would be tax evasion will be disabled, but also the avoidance of the right payout obligation worked according to model A, B, C, D, E, so they founded one company A in which they employed workers, in company B had production halls, in company C machines, and through company D they sold products and services and charged. Then they came to their senses, so the owner's wife set up a savings-credit cooperative that gave loans or loans to company A that couldn't pay their salaries and thus brought them into bankruptcy. And when the bankruptcy was opened, that company had no property at all. From the bankruptcy crowd, workers could charge for the fog. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And I want to believe that no one else in the IRS is going to be able to answer questions about such malfeasances that there is no authority in a way to prevent such behaviour and business. No employer who operates with the aim of creating profits and subsisting tax obligations to the state, and the workers are paid and contributions cannot be called a problem but a solution. But anyone who believes he has the right not to pay taxes, not pay salaries and not pay contributions in Croatia can only be called a problem and not a problem solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8176	I thank my colleague Lesar. With the IDS Club's position on amendments to the General Tax Law, we will be introduced to our esteemed colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8177	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, etc. So I'll say first a large number of entrepreneurs in this country are correct. I dare say they're victims of time. A large number of workers in this country are correct because they are victims of time. And a large number of officials are also correct and victims of time. Therefore, we too must try to take a proper look at these provisions. Normally we'll support them too. When I talk about this general tax law, I dare say that this law is a revolution in relation to this law so far. This law erases this business secret here, but it also introduces an entirely new institute that we previously had with natural persons, in craftsmen, responsibility for all of our assets. Now, will all this lead to order we'll see. Whether this will lead to a larger or smaller number of working hours will soon show time. But somehow, I'll take my turn. With the proposal of the Minister of Finance or the Ministry, however, here today is the change of this General Tax Law based on which, among other things, members of the administration would have made it possible for public companies not to now appoint them from HEP, some plumber, a utility, etc. and private companies should be responsible for the failure of the company as a whole by their assets. It will be interesting to see who will accept or continue to lead, for example, a society like the Croatian Railways. A similar solution, gentlemen, to what I've already said is where natural persons appear, so craftsmen appear as bearers of a job. It seems to me that two weeks ago I read an interview by Mr. Maras, a minister to call him a small economy, and he, among other things, wrote down that sentence, said that it was in the title I mean in the Evening List, that craftsmen should guarantee only that property that serves them to create traffic not and grandfather. It's a done quote. We see that the Ministry of Finance is going one step further and that actually the solution is going back to what the Company Act knew when it comes to natural persons, meaning craftsmen. So, one ministry, Mr. Maras, insists that only on business property, and this other finance insists on personal and business property. Obviously, it will pass a law where, in future and natural and legal persons, they will fit their entire assets, business assets, one word and grandfather. Then I'd ask myself a question like this. If, for example, small and large entrepreneurs have to answer to personal property, should the ministers, vice-presidents of the government, the government, if the financial and economic parameters are worse than the previous year, for example. Should that responsibility extend to the Croatian National Bank or, for example, courts in case a senior court contests a verdict. Is that a responsibility but that responsibility should be extended to mayors, mayors, if opportunities in some local self-government are worsened. Should that kind of responsibility extend to MPs who raise their hands by listening to party bosses and not their own conscience? We, to be honest, and in Slovenia we have something similar that our Ministry of Finance now proposes. But there the company owners are responsible for business decisions up to one year's pay if I'm not wrong about net pay. I agree with all those who spoke before me, both the SDP and the Labour Club and the Ministry of Finance, etc., that not some things in Croatia should be cut off. On today, tax debts, to call them that, amount to 55 billion kuna. Not 51, 55 billion kuna. Not half, two-thirds of those debts will never be charged. We all know examples of where many under quotes "directors" or those owners who became the owners of mostly these transformed companies in the '90s and knowingly destroyed companies to sell out in conversion, say, acquired assets that I would later not know by not believing that such a schizophrenic situation could exist in a regulated country for 20 years, so later they bought villas, Mercedeses, they had for lovers, but they didn't have for workers and for countries. However, I also want to say that not everyone in the business is a criminal. By law, by this law prescribed? I quote, "That the tax guarantees under the proposal of the General Tax Code will be activated if the state in the administrative procedure determines that the director or member of the company was withdrawing money from the company's assets, okay, business through related persons, okay, moving profits and losses between the mother and daughter's society, okay, issuing fictitious accounts, okay, transferring assets to family members and other close persons, okay, giving fictitious loans between society and members, okay, maliciously using the ruling position in society, okay, I just don't know how you're going to do it, and in other cases where a member of society abuses the circumstances that a member of society is not responsible for his obligations to his creditors, so neither the State to settle obligations from tax-debreion. Now let's take a step further, what kind of procedure is this going to be? That procedure should be urgent. Who's going to lead or execute him? He should be executed by the IRS. Right, the solution to the court's claim at this time or so has been two, three, which I know for how many years. The tax administration should bring a solution to the forced collection of private property within 60 days. Finally, I say that the Tax Administration has done its job in some earlier period, so that the Croatian government or the Croatian state would not still ask 55 billion kuna at this time, which would be citizens, which would be natural or legal persons. Is it possible, on the other hand, that someone's guilty of being executed, I don't know how to express myself, running a business to determine outside the Penal Code. Is it possible to confiscate someone’s property without a decision of power, or judgment? Whose job is that? Is that the job of the court or the IRS? Absolutely, we all agree that order in this country must be because this mess has left the state without 55 billion kuna. It's brother to brother 40% of the 2012 budget. 55 billion kunas are about three roads from Zagreb to Split and back, clearly. Due to such a riot Croatia has 270 thousand less employees than in 2008, but regardless of all of Croatia's business, business, whatever we call it, are not thieves, are not cheaters, etc. I dare say gentlemen that still, I say that more than once after this pay phone, that it is still the easiest in the public sector. Recently, there was one information, though not responding to the real truth, that the average net salary in the private sector in 2011 was 4673 kuna, that it fell by some 600 kuna compared to 2010, and in the public sector, perhaps because of the 2010 election year, it was 5919 kuna and 2011. 6536 and went up somewhere around 550 kuna. Finally, not once I told you about this pay phone, whenever one of us asks for help, then he's looking for a job in a public service, not a private one. When we talk about this settlement of real estate, how? Someone, let's say something doesn't matter where he's turned or something. And that's what the government is selling them now. Will the Government assess an average price or the Ministry of Finance or sell it at a cost to settle the tax debt? Keep in mind the fact that at this point in this country, no one can sell anything, whether it is Istria, whether it is Zagreb, because otherwise there would be 30 thousand unsold apartments here and that construction activity simply on their knees. On page 2, it is said that it will be published, etc., if someone does not subscribe to profit tax, income, I don't know VAT, a cut greater than 50 thousand kuna, greater than 100 thousand kuna for legal persons, 50 thousand kuna for persons carrying out their activity, these are craftsmen. So, 100,000 kuna for legal persons, 10,000 kuna for all other taxpayers, means citizen for 10 thousand kuna. But speaking of inequitableness, speaking of non-payments, speaking of blocks, just to say that in March 2012, we had 72 thousand 959 blocked companies and crafts. They had a debt of $42.3 billion. In the same period in March, we had 212 thousand 317 citizens blocked with a debt of 13 billion and 80 million kuna. Whether this law will change anything remains to be seen. I doubt it, I said two-thirds of those commitments would be charged. Before banks, for example, had a heavy charge of 3 to 4%, today such 12.5% means unpaid loans. But we know a great debt as well as how it was created. I dare say that today in this society is the hardest for a small businessman, the hardest for a small craftsman, the craftsman, the one who employs, two, three, five, ten people, the people who match their entire assets. These people, I dare say that they are often in a more difficult position and from the workers who work with them, they already correspond to their entire assets it extends to companies now and to companies. The worker responds to work, and it's too much responsibility and it's too much of a burden and it's also devastating, but we have to do everything we can to make the worker work, so he can make a profit, but what if these measures are destimulating and if he doesn't encourage employment? Clearly, what we had we must leave, the practice we had to pay only those who were, say, politically inadequate, those others not to. I would advocate that before these announcements also tax administration talks to every entrepreneur, there should be no understanding but simply the sea, because not everyone who deals in this country is a thief. Take a walk in the city of Zagreb, you go down here to Radićeva, across the square, it doesn't matter Preradovićeva, Ilica etc. Every third place that was bought twenty years ago, paid gold today is closed, every third store is closed. Bandic says if we don't adjust the salaries in Holding, in 3.4 months, maybe one salary will be lost, easy for Bandic, something similar was said yesterday and the prime minister at this meeting of employers that perhaps if it continues as far more seriously as possible it won't be for wages. There are 270 thousand people left in this country without a job in four years. In Istria about 4 to 5 thousand, and we have more employees in Istria than in the 1990s when everyone was said to be in a working relationship. But I say the same thing if everyone had problems like Istria, Istria had a lot of problems then Croatia would simply not have and it would be easier for everyone. On the side, how much longer do I have? Yeah. Absolutely, if we were going to stand by the law, we'd see how it would end. We should support the prime minister's statement yesterday that there should be order when it comes to tax obligations, on the other hand, a man is asking himself what these announcements of some ministers mean, cutting collective agreements, Christmas cards, regressions, cutting the benefits. The message if it continues will not be for wages, it is not a good message because it simply scares, and in order to start something should simply encourage people and tell them have, work, pay taxes, pay wages, the state will be monitored, and if you can't do that, be rich, not that we have only this situation that we now have that stands on each other canton or canton one seller who buys gold so in the first three months of Croatia was exported somewhere around 330 million kuna only gold. On the side of five of this law, among other things, it is said that the occurrences of the establishment of companies, mostly limited liability companies in a large number of cases and with only one member, have been observed. Cases where individuals and societies have established a large number of new legal entities etc. It absolutely needs to be stopped, this practice of obligation to you right me, that practice has to become in some way the past What time has passed, because of this [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end, please.]] Then that's what's distracting you, Mr. Vice President. [[Stazić: Time is up, yes.]] But no matter what, I agree, I'll be done. The law that, but we also realize that today may be the hardest job to run a company, it is easy to set up, to survive on the market, to work, to pay wages, to serve obligations is even harder. And it should be simply appreciated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8178	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS club will be spoke of by distinguished representative Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8179	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. The SDSS Club believes this proposal of the law that the Government is indeed courageously trying to introduce order into financial operations, relating to the General Tax Law, that it is trying to strengthen financial discipline and thus protect the legal order, as well as the moral strengthening of any participant of the tax-legal relationship to act in good faith, knowingly and honestly in accordance with the law. It is known that unpaid claims are 51 billion or 55 as Mr Cain says, kuna, taxes, contributions and other donations. A great injustice seems to those who regularly pay, who regularly settle their obligations, in relation to those among them, who are untouchable and who for years, who have been tolerated from paying or postponing their obligations and contributing to employees, to profits and others. Very often, it was in the interest of buying social peace that the state would write down claims so that some economic operators would survive or even on their behalf be in debt to various loans and pay dues. The analysis of the existing state of play through untimely payment of tax-based obligations between entrepreneurs and public-legal authorities raises the question of the regular functioning of the rule of law, the protection of the legal order, and the active role of the state in promoting economic progress and development. This amendment to the General Tax Law, it provides for three essential components that it is important to highlight, it is a publication of the list of tax debtors, the Institute of Legal Personality Breaking and Debt Breaking. The publication of the list of taxable persons is considered to be a useful instrument and a component, it allows public publication of the list of taxpayers to be narrowed down, especially those who have reached and outstanding tax debts based on value added tax, on profit, income tax, and taxes, and contributions to compulsory insurance. It is considered that no data would be published to the debtors to whom the tax authority has postponed the postponement or to the periodical payment. So you wouldn't be publishing those data on those if you made a delay deal or a round-the-clock payment. It is predicted that the publication of debts for legal persons goes to 100,000, for physical 50, and for citizens 10 thousand kuna. In the application of the General Tax Code, a number of difficulties have been observed and this amount of 51 billion or 55, as you wish, can be realised because a number of legal entities who have been unsettled for a long time have been inactive or have been subject to bankruptcy proceedings and have transferred business to new companies in order to avoid tax payments. Under the current law, there is a possibility that a number of limited liability companies have only one member of the company without the need for proof of the financial credibility of the founders without checking the seat, without the means of insurance that easily open the accounts and enter into the value added tax. It introduces the personal responsibility of management members, directors who guarantee their assets for business and tax guarantees. This component suggests that it has been observed in numerous cases as profit is manipulated and relocated profits between the parent companies and the daughter companies to issue fictitious accounts, to open new companies and to actually remain debts. The control of the breach of legal personality in the administrative process will be possible only after the establishment of the OIB system, which is practically expected by the end of the 6th month of this year. Debt breakthroughs related to the proposed law, the breakover of taxpayers' income claims to the state budget due to inequitableness and easier collection of existing liabilities and the possibility of settlement of debt to the state. If the State decides or has an interest, a settlement may be made through the debt settlement institute through the acquisition or concession of the property of the debtor. We also consider as a colleague from the Labour Party that this information should also be public. All these measures indicate serious intentions if they succeed in the application of the General Tax Code and the suppression of institutes privileged to those who regularly settle their obligations. The SDSS Club will support this proposal of the General Tax Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8180	Thank you. And I call now for a pay phone to the distinguished representative Martin Dalic to introduce us to the positions of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8181	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs. These amendments to the General Tax Code, as the Proposer himself describes and explains in the introduction, were made in the context of strengthening financial tax discipline. The overall objective of the promoters on the need to strengthen financial and tax discipline is certainly agreed we also support as a HDZ club and personally. However, this law, and I consider it its first great interest, actually contains some provisions that do not go in the direction of strengthening financial and tax discipline. I think primarily of a legal article which, in one sentence somewhere in the other part of the law, says "it is possible to settle tax debt by applying real estate when it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia". And if it were of interest to the Republic of Croatia to charge tax debt by applying real estate, because the same OBZ says the tax is monetary tax. It is of interest for the Republic of Croatia to charge taxes in money. The settlement of real estate takes place according to this sentence in a way that is decided by the Government. Today, in a forced charge under the existing OBZ, it appears to be an exercise in the case where the tax is forced on real estate, then charged in the executive procedure, in the sale of real estate in the executive proceedings before the court. The law doesn't say anything about the possibility of taking over real estate in the executive procedure, so it's kind of equalising state law and, say, a bank in a forced charge? It is said to be determined by the government's decision. I think this is how this law violates what this law advocates, which is institutional and financial order, because it introduces a rate of debt by paying off real estate. How, by what criteria, who are they to qualify for the possibility of taxing real estate? How will the Republic of Croatia or the Government determine interest? What criteria? That doesn't say anything here. In addition, the current OBZ also says that when forced tax collection is carried out by seizing property rights and capital shares, the law also says what is done with such confiscation. They're sold by public auction. What's going on with this kind of retrieval, the law doesn't say. Well, it's not the RH real estate fund to collect properties for which it's not clear what they're going to do with them. Because I remind you the goal is to get the money. The law remains unaware of what the state will do with this kind of acquittal property. We have already seen this practice and it is known to the Ministry of Finance that the results of this practice are. In 2001, it was passed a Law on the collection of customs duties, contributions and State guarantees that enables the settlement of real estate, yarn, compensation and various other combinations. The result of that law was that the Ministry of Finance had become the owner of numerous properties, such garages as any apartments with which it did not know what to do. Today these and such properties have been transferred to audio, still squatted and sold there, and these taxes have never been charged and transformed into money. I think that the Ministry of Finance has a lot of experience with the negativity of this kind of charge with the violations that it puts into order in the tax system and I believe that this provision in a very simple way also disrupts the market economy and the functioning of both the institutional system and the institutions that we all stand for, and in particular, the representatives of the authorities are talking about these days. I therefore believe that such a provision is not good and does not go in the direction of strengthening financial discipline. Of course, the second element of this law that everyone is talking about is public announcement. In the theory of public publication, there is a measure that certainly can and should contribute to strengthening tax discipline and public announcements will contribute to strengthening tax discipline pro futuro, in the future, and for debts already in existence will not particularly contribute to their collection. That's why I think it's very important, given that we form a provision for pro futuro, that this legal norm be much more quality than it is now. The idea of a public announcement is not new. I can personally testify that she debated and debated at the Ministry of Finance during the last three HDZ ministers, and I believe that such talks were also during the Minister of the Church. However, because of the dangers not sufficiently well - founded legal norms, such ideas were given up. I am therefore surprised that the tax administration, the Ministry of Finance, in such a simple way as to formulate this legal standard by opening up a huge space in which, not by its own fault, clean taxpayers can be found, and in such a business, there must be no error in public disclosure of tax debts, not for a single kuna. In the legal norm, nothing is said about the date on which these data will be published, nothing is said about the time distance between the publication and the date because it is known that the tax administration does not have every day at every moment absolutely accurate records. That's not what it says here. The accuracy of these records depends, of course, on the dynamics of the book, but also on the dynamics of the alignment. Indeed, in the implementation of the Law on a special rate of payment of the tax debt, the tax debt situation is determined by harmonising itself with the taxpayer. I was one of those guys who had a chance to ask the IRS why you had to coordinate. They answered because our tax records are unlikely to match taxpayers' records, and we need to get in line before we make a solution to the R & D. Well, if that's the case, and it is, and if the tax administration records aren't quite correct then I think we all see the danger of the tax returns being completed by tax bonds that are neat, by their own error or by the tax administration's error. But let's not forget, 97.9% of tax revenues and the tax revenues in charge were charged last year. 107.4 billion were paid by orderly taxpayers, and none of them deserve administrative negligence to be thrown out of public service. The provision reminds me it brings pro futuro. On the other hand, the tax administration knows exactly who the taxpayers are and what they're called. If possible, there are some reasons that prevent the tax administration from collecting taxes, then I don't see how these reasons will be removed by publishing this list. The new government has been here for five months. If it's a matter of paying tax debts, I simply ask why they're not charged. If it's all that simple and it's going to be solved by publishing the list. I therefore plead on the tax administration to make this legal norm more quality because 100 thousand kunas of back tax debt, which means for a taxpayer who annually pays several hundred million kunas of taxes in the state budget. It's a question of error of reckoning, of rounding mistakes. What does it mean to be late for taxes one day? Namely, everyone who deals with financial operations knows that the collection process has certain steps, has the first warning, has a second warning, has a blockade, has a purpose. The law doesn't say when and at what point someone will qualify to come on this list. Is it because he was late with a tax payment one day, whether because, on 50 million kuna, VAT tax obligations on a given date, there was an error in the billing for 100 thousand kunas or if, on that list, he would find himself repeatedly, repeatedly and continuously late in paying his obligations. The law doesn't say that, he just says that a list will be published. I think, therefore, that the way this list is going to be published will have a certain significant impact on what is called here and what we all call a business climate together. I think we are required to contribute to the quality of this tax climate, one by one, one step at a time. I think that we are also obliged to limit and prevent and prevent the arbitration of the public administration, including the tax administration, by quality and by means of legal rules. The provisions on the acquisition of real estate and the provisions on the publication of taxpayers do not allow that. I think it is good that this law is in the first reading, which will allow the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance to consider the observations made here by other colleagues of whom I also think on the spot. What I would support in this law, which I think is very good, is a provision that wasn't much of a word, which says that the tax administration has the right to publish all data on the taxpayer that releases tax debt data into the media. Such cases have occurred, such cases will likely be in the future, where some taxpayers deliberately interpret their tax situation in the media knowing that the Tax Administration could not respond according to existing legal decisions. The legal solution also needs to protect the dignity of the Tax Administration, but also the dignity of taxpayers. At this point in time, the way the tax-deposit provision has been hip doesn't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8182	I thank you, too. In 10.40, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. We continue to discuss clubs. That's how the time has come to hear the position of the HNS club. They will be presented by the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8183	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy associate, colleagues and colleagues. So about a billion, we heard all sorts of numbers, but what we can safely conclude, what the finance minister was talking about a month ago, which is that only half of 51 billion can be charged, given that these are debts that are remunerated from active companies. This is all else either in bankruptcy or indemnity or they have stopped their activities. The structure itself has already been spoken of, but there is a need to repeat legal persons there are 39%, I am talking about active companies, billable assets, natural persons of independent activities 43%, and citizens 18%. What has already been said but needs to be highlighted, which is that at the time of economic expansion, debt grew in 2008 to 31 billion kuna. These disastrous figures of debt to the state budget, according to the Republic of Croatia, could not have happened, it was quite clear only because of the recession but primarily because of the fact that the state did not behave properly and acted recklessly in its business. Therefore, order and regulation of relations with the state should be introduced in a way that will not allow manipulation. It is a turn of this coalition government and a responsible approach to citizens, according to the taxpayers, towards all those who had properly settled their obligations, who so far could often have been punished because they were correct because they acted as they were by law. This General Tax Law, of course, is a prerequisite for resolving fiscal responsibility and the collection of funds in the good part and for general liquidity, orderly settlement of liabilities to the state. But although it does not say in this law, it is quite clear that if the state does not pay its obligations properly and if state-owned companies as connected persons, if we can say so under this Law do not settle their obligations properly, then all of this together will be difficult to have the justice that is due. Three are the key papers. The institute of legal personality is being introduced. The tax administration will publish a list of debtors according to the level of debt, of course not only entrepreneurs, private persons, but everyone in the public sector. And the change of laws gives the possibility of a settlement as a mutual beating of a state and a taxpayer, which is already spoken of. When it comes to the responsibility of the Director, i.e. related persons, it should be mentioned that under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register since 2010 the company was introduced to submit a certified public-book declaration that it is not due to tax and contribution or that the company in which the founder has 5% or more of the share has no debt to the State. Of course, this could not be prevented from being established by someone else's company, so that they would sell it to someone who didn't have to deliver a public-book statement that there was no debt to the state, so it was easy and bypassing what we were aware of. According to the state and other creditors, debts could continue to be accumulated, cheated, shut down, or taken over new companies, all to go without sanctions except for our economy and public finances collapsed. Under this Act, tax debt is a company in which, for the first time, responsible persons and related individuals will pay, and if necessary, their assets that become a guarantee. It is also stressed that the introduction of the material responsibility of the administration in the general tax law that we have ahead of us, that it also has a basis in the Company Act which knows the breach of the legal personality of the company. If, unwittingly, administrations are responsible for their property for the damage to the creditors, as well as members of a company that has an impact on their business. This Law lists the related companies that will be in the General Tax Code. In particular, the relationship between a dependent and a ruling company, a related person, is highlighted in order to place itself in this group and a person whose relationship does not result solely from the law or mandatory relationship, and to define the ratio of control within the meaning of the General Tax Code. It is important to point out that the process of determining the abuse of rights will only be implemented once all payment options in the executive procedure have been exhausted. Of course, we have heard various comments and questions as well as the question of stimulating entry into the business waters of this law. For example, what if a beginner starts a company and fails, does not pay the obligation. It's just that the company fails which, unfortunately, is not hard because one of the 10 succeeds. So says the statistics. Entering entrepreneurship is the business risk in which you participate. Of course, you can earn or fail, but that does not mean that you can knowingly cheat on the state, citizens or what this Law of course wants to prevent you from increasing your personal wealth to the burden of others who operate neatly and accumulate debts rather than creating failures on a real entrepreneurial enterprise. The general tax law clearly defines that liability and sanctions against persons who conduct company and related persons only apply in cases of abuse of his or her powers as a consequence of the inability to fulfil obligations under the tax-debt relationship and damage to the tax authority. Thus, this Law only speeds up processes and shortens the time of collection in relation to the State. Let us not forget that those who do not pay taxes also create unfair competition. All those, and many of them are regulated in the settlement of obligations and are promoted in this way by not paying tax irregularities on the market directly and indirectly affecting the liquidity of the entire system. Once again, I am expected from state companies to carry out their duties neatly. Only the regulated fiscal system in a market-oriented state, clear rules and responsibilities can ensure both the competitiveness and security of the business investment. Entrepreneurs are drivers of development and employment and the progress of the entire society. For entrepreneurs, this coalition government provides incentives for employment, stimulates them for reinvested profits, ensures the stability of the credit rating, which allows not only interest on loans to grow but also that they are available with interest below 4%, 10% advances have been announced for all public sector-funded jobs. There is no developed and successful country, a successful economy in democratic countries if it is unable to control its revenues and expenditures. The coalition government has the obligation and the right to use all instruments to protect both the market and the economy and free competition and the transparency and stability of public finances, the equality of all citizens and companies before the law. The general tax law in the Assembly is one of such instruments for a neat, fair and better state of Croatia. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8184	Thank you, too. Last in a series of registered clubs, but not so much less valuable, the HDSSB club and distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8185	I thank Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I will remind you that during the 2012 budget debate, the HDSSB has just pointed to the problem of large tax debt, pointed to nearly 55 billion kuna of tax debt, and has just asked for one measure to be published by all taxpayers. That's when I said on behalf of the club that at least those over 100,000 kunas were published. So this is the immediate answer to those who claim that this is the turn of the coalition government. We are pleased that the Ministry of Finance has accepted this HDSSB proposal and this is not about any turning of the coalition government towards the collection of tax debts but is about the only reasonable solution. But about the situation in the economy, I'm afraid that instead of turning and moving forward, we don't experience a copernicus turn and go back to where we were. Regarding the very publication of these taxpayers, I believe that it is no pillar of shame or Indian torture because there should be no real exception. Those who owe this state are also obliged to all their citizens, citizens, and there must be no exceptions and I hope that the IRS will not make exceptions like the former set-up did when it solved these issues on the basis of political belongings or political similarities, while punishing grandmothers in the markets or in the kegs and indeed rigorously. And this is the proposal that is related to this Tax Act that such a list and such publication should certainly include those who have reached agreement with the Tax Administration, i.e. with the State on the R & D, because, above all, the same state is far greater than the main tax debt on the basis of that contract, i.e. the settlements are also written off by those interest that have accumulated throughout the tax debt. Therefore, the HDSSB advocates that there are no exceptions to this, but that, above all, these tax debtors who have signed the payment of this tax debt on meals are also published for 36 months. However, the fact that the tax debt situation also shows that of this 51 billion kuna tax debt or somewhere almost 50% of the real Croatian state budget that only around 25.8 billion there is a possibility of collection, and for the other 25%, or 25 or 26 or 30 billion kuna, there is no possibility of any charge. The fact is that this is, above all, the legacy of the former governments, but also because of this, it is necessary not to talk about turning and revolution but rather about something that is quite normal in financial business. Of these 26 billion, 40% of the company's waste, 43% of the natural persons involved in the activity, and 18% of the citizens. In all, the company is 131 thousand, natural persons engaged in the activity of 261 thousand, while citizens who owe taxes are almost a million and 400 thousand. The proposal of the HDSSB is that citizens are also allowed to pay back their tax debt on an individual basis, but in any case for each citizen or for each family they represent a very large amount. With regard to the very projection of the 2012 budget, but also to the budgeting itself, it is visible that, although it is for some a truly complex system consisting of hundreds and thousands of components that the average human mind sometimes cannot understand. It's obvious that through this kind of billing and through, I would say one whole initiative, that the budget's revenue has been increased, but it's exclusively related to this first quarter and these revenues are higher by 5.6% compared to last year's budget. At the same time, since we do not have large investments in Croatia, expenditure has been reduced by 0.8%, and regardless of this increased charge of the state budget of 5.6% more compared to last year, a deficit of 2.2 billion kuna was regained in the first quarter. At the same time, therefore, if everyone enters the possibility of a flat-rate payment it is evident that this pace will therefore slow down and extend to three years, while at the same time reducing the revenues of the budgets that are linked to income tax because we are witnessing that every day and every day is not stopped, the increase in number stopped, the number of unemployment. These certainly influence measures, as one of the predecessors has said, affecting the state of affairs throughout the country, and this very publication of tax debtors cannot make anyone angry, nor are entrepreneurs, nor is this publication creating an anti-enterprise climate, nor is this publication of tax debtors creating any possibility, that is, the inability to develop entrepreneurship in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to extend that deadline for the possibility of payment for all taxpayers but in addition to this publication. In any case, we argue that this tax law does not include only debts to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. according to the tax administration, but in any case this General Tax Law, given that the Tax Administration is the only one in the Republic of Croatia, has almost all the data relating to taxpayers, it is certainly necessary to enter both obligations and to units of local self-government, but also to regional self-government units in order for this overall tax debt collection process to be completed. There are also several analysts who predict that this accelerated collection or the prolonged collection of the tax debt will not significantly affect, not only the revenues of the state budget but also, I would say the restoration of the Croatian economy, given that the forecasts and not some independent economic analysts, but the economic institutions, that in the last quarter of last year, the Croatian economy recorded a further drop in gross national income of 0.4%, and the available data for the first quarter show, so for 2012 they point to a further increase, a decline in gross national income, and therefore it is very easy to conclude that the Croatian economy has re-entered the recession. And that is why, in order to protect jobs, in order to protect workers' rights, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must do everything to create new jobs. In addition to this payment of the tax debt, allow for the development and measures for the development of the Croatian economy. I would like to remind you that the problem and the launch of the development of the Croatian economy cannot be solved only at the level of the state, but what needs to be resolved first and foremost in the area of local and regional self-government and precisely when adopting this tax law which is primarily directed towards, I would like to say to one discipline when paying tax obligations to the Republic of Croatia. I will remind you that we are looking again and that we will be going very quickly with new and complete amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government because after this mini tax reform most local self-government units in Croatia can be declared units of special state concern. Because it plays with decentralised funds, it plays with income tax, with an increase in the non-taxable part of the salary has not affected any consolidation and financial stability of local self-government units and the possibility of local and regional self-government in the creation and programmes and projects that are related to economic recovery as well as to the creation of new jobs. I will also remind myself of the opening speech of Prime Minister or Prime Minister of Croatian Government Zoran Milanovic, who has promised to decentralisation, fiscal decentralise, but of this fiscal decentralisation of real decentralisation, there remains only a dead letter on paper, and inexplicably this government has to go to change the decisions on income tax, income tax, value added tax and real estate tax to go to local and regional self-government units in a way that you have already heard here because the ratio that was last year was that the income of the general state was 92%, and 8% that went towards local self-government units is now 96% in favour of the state, and only 4% towards local self-government units. Therefore, both in Slavonia and in Baranja and in these underdeveloped parts of Croatia live also Croatian citizens and citizens do not live only in Zagreb, they do not live only in large cities and therefore it is necessary to carry out decentralisation. I repeat to all those who believe The last sentence, that the publication of the list of tax debtors is a pillar of shame, is responsible for not only paying the tax debt to the state in a way or in a meal payment or for those who have placed these funds on the Cayman Islands, islands or islands to simply raise money or black bags from those of Shore companies and to pay what they owe to this Croatia because many have given this Croatian life. [[Intruder: Time.]] The HDSSB Club will support this law here with these remarks we had, I hope the Ministry of Finance will discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8186	Thank you, Your Honor. With your debate, we have concluded the debate by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament, now we will move to an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes. First of all, a respected representative of Peja Grbin applied for this topic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll be free to refer to the debate of my esteemed colleague Vinkovic. The fact is that taxes are not charged because it came to the state to take money from citizens, but because tax revenues are financed by schools, hospitals, kindergartens, roads, etc. Taxes have to be paid. Non-taxation is one big crime not only towards the state but towards the whole community. And that's why I think the announcement, the publication of those who owe taxes, can't hurt anyone. However, she is very useful and should be supported. Only because of this publication will, of course, not be taxed immediately, but let us call it a pillar of shame will be useful as pressure on those who can and have decided not to pay the tax. However, this announcement of the debtor is given one by my court smaller though not an irrelevant part of this law. What's particularly important to me in this law is that the IRS gets one terrible tool, one terrible lever that will be able to charge taxes that have so far avoided that payment. And not in that simple way that tax is simply not paid, but in thought-out terms, I would say even in the perfidious ways where new companies were founded, where related companies were founded, all with the aim of avoiding payment obligations and especially those according to the state budget. That is why I believe that this law should be supported especially in the part where it goes to sanction the breach of legal personality and where it goes to sanction non-payment through related or ruling and addictive societies. I hope something happens with this tool that unfortunately did not happen with the OIB after its introduction. We are aware, we know that the OIB was introduced a few years ago, but only 4 months ago did the political will or desire of the ruling that this OIB application and that through it sanction those who avoid paying taxes. We had a chance to see what happens when the IRS wants and wants to do their job. That's part of it. The second part I would especially welcome is the question of a breakthrough. I don't think there's much to talk about, but I have to remind you, a whole series of companies in the Republic of Croatia have failed because the state didn't pay their commitments, and at the same time it was charging taxes. And what's going on? On the one hand, companies owe to the state and it is charged in one tax enforcement procedure which is urgent, fast and as effective as it is, and on the other hand, the state owes them and this claim is not disputed, but does not want to pay. Until now, such obligations could not be overcome. By passing this law, we will solve this problem. Unfortunately, for many, it will be too late, but we will prevent future problems that we have witnessed from happening. Here, I won't last any longer. I certainly believe this law should be supported. He's useful, he's a step forward, and I think in one part we need to be willing to sacrifice citizens' privacy when it comes to citizens who are not fulfilling their obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8188	Thank you, Your Honor. I would ask the respected Tanja Vrbat to give up the replica in accordance with the democratic business standard because we agreed not to use the replica in the same club from the same club, so please support that standard. Thank you very much. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Let's move on with the individual debate, Honorary Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the ministry. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, finally one law that will bring order and discipline in paying obligations to the state. I agree that the state should serve its obligations but that order must also be introduced in the service of its obligations to the State. It's high time they stopped being important and big and real entrepreneurs who don't pay taxes and who are proud of it. I wonder how it's ever been possible, ladies and gentlemen? It was possible because the state officials had orders from the top of the line that were not in control. They didn't go to the like, and they went to the young and the upright, and they were looking for mistakes, and they were looking for hair in the egg, and the big ones were being released. Not only big ones, but similar ones. There's been a situation and a climate in the country that you're as capable and as good an entrepreneur as you haven't paid your taxes. And so once again, finally, and here I congratulate the director of the tax administration who set out to clear this swamp, finally gentlemen. I would especially like to welcome the provision by which criminal liability would be given by tax evasion, but also by their helpers, because there are indeed many examples of incorrect data, i.e. haired accounting data. It has been in practice so far for tax officials to be sent to the tip-offs, but then they find nothing controversial. And again, I wonder how, ladies and gentlemen, for the convenience of entrepreneurs or the incompetence of civil servants? I don't believe they're incompetent, I think they know their job. But again, we're going back to this country that so far some have been more equal than others. I'll give you one example. When tax collectors came to buy agricultural products from natural persons, therefore agricultural producers, they came to the tip and found nothing because the tax book was neatly printed, collected and transferred to the VAT form. The cross was coming, and if they had looked back, they would have found millions of kunas of tax evasion. They didn't want to do anything because the entrepreneur in question is a name. Well, I tell you ladies and gentlemen, I've had enough of such entrepreneurs, I've had enough of the entrepreneurs who are at the expense of workers, the expense of tax evasion is successful. I'm sick of people driving fancy cars and yachts, and it looks like they're driving all of us. That's enough. That's enough ladies and gentlemen. Above all, and most of all, I welcome the fact that entrepreneurs who have deceived the state, workers and creditors in the same space, with the same basic means continue to work under a different name and move on to new frauds. That's enough, and that's why once again, you finally gave me as an agent and my colleagues and colleagues a law that should be supportive of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8190	Thank you, Your Honor, Commissioner Hajdukovic. There's been a misstatement on your exhibit. Dear Representative Zeljko Reiner, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8191	Honorable representative Hajdukovic is very loud, so we could all hear, said what he said, but what I would correct is the fact that he said that he had knowledge that some members of the former authorities had clearly ordered someone to go into tax controls and charge taxes and not to someone. If that is true, then he is a respected representative, since non-payment of taxes is a criminal offence, I should have reported it and I expect him to report it today because knowledge of a criminal offence if he does not apply himself is a criminal offence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8192	Thank you, Your Honor. It's a classic replica because it wasn't a correction of an incorrect quote, it was a replica, but well, everything's fine. We're going to the next debate. Honorable representative Lidija Bagaric is entitled to 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Finance Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I consider the adoption of amendments to the General Tax Code extremely important for future economic development, and the main reason for the proposed changes is the enormous claims made by the Croatian State on the basis of taxes where, as we have already heard several times, total debts with interest went beyond 50 billion kuna. There are also a large number of debtors who, according to some estimates, mention 760,000 as citizens, which are companies and craftsmen. It is doubtful what can be charged today, and some estimates say half the amount, and some say that even 2/3 of the non-refundable claims. Because of this mess, the state has lost 40% of the budget for this year. We are all witnessing a number of cases in which the owners of companies who also directors of companies were knowingly destroying companies. We had opportunities to see, it was already mentioned that there were funds for villas, for expensive cars, for ships, but not for workers and the state. And regardless of how much they owe both to the state and the workers and business partners, they're still in business today. There are cases that individuals own 20 companies or share in them as much as 50. The big and often mentioned problem is so-called. The ficus of companies that made about 25 billion uncharging claims. According to this proposal for a general tax code, the tax guarantee will be activated if the state determines in the administrative procedure that a member of the company illegally extracted money from the company's assets, transferred profits and losses between several companies, issued fictitious accounts or transferred property to family members and friends and similar proceedings. The general tax law also allows what is promised, and this is the publication of the identity of the debtor and the amount of the debt. The past government tried to put an end to debt build-up through the possibility of reprogramming, but this did not bring the desired result because the liquidity continued to grow. A new model is therefore necessary. The publication of debtors may be considered a rough move, and although in Croatia employers' associations consider the publication of debtors incorrect and call the pillar of shame, the fact is that the models so far have not obtained results. Already, by announcing the publication of the list of debtors, the tax administration recorded a better tax charge of about 3%. Despite the above, it cannot be said that all entrepreneurs in Croatia are thieves and frauds. I would especially like to emphasise this because entrepreneurship is the one that needs to move us forward in this crisis, and therefore it is necessary to distinguish entrepreneurs who are paying their commitments in orderly, thereby contributing to the overall development of the economy from those who are using the situation and avoiding payments. We even have developed a culture that is more successful than the one that better cheats on the state and damages the workers. It is a culture and consciousness that we need to change, and entrepreneurs who regularly pay their obligations to encourage and relieve... In addition to forcing citizens and businessmen to pay their debts, the state should first be an example of orderly remuneration and should be insisted. [[You can't hear the phone.]] I repeat, although it seems rude, I believe that this law will bring more order into account in the payment of commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8194	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have a single replica reported. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8195	We're not at the same club. This way, distinguished colleagues need to be distinguished from entrepreneurs. And I see in view of this announced list here that it will soon follow the escapades at last, finally, finally, and so on. And I just want to remind again that right after that pay phone, that's what the HDSSB club first asked for, and fortunately for that, the finance minister accepted. But today in the Parliament, we cannot create exactly these speeches with an anti-entrepreneurship climate, because not all entrepreneurs, and not all citizens according to their obligations are alike. And right now there is responsibility for us, but also for the Croatian government to launch entrepreneurship because this is just a measure of tax debt collection. Therefore, we should not be fooled that the payment of the tax debt will increase and restore the Croatian economy, because it has happened in some other countries where the revenues of the budget in the first quarter, in the first year, went forward, and thanks to the absence of other measures, the gross national income fell. I won't mention other countries, but I don't want that to happen in Croatia. So we don't boast too much of what's healthy and logical to ask the IRS to collect tax debt from those who asked for it. One of the measures the Croatian government should make is to reduce the value added tax, as it will not so increase the start of the Croatian economy. See only Germany, for example, where production and the economy are driven by a reduction in VAT, not by an increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8196	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Lidija Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8197	Here is Honorable Representative Vinkovic, I am pleased to agree that this law is necessary, that not all entrepreneurs are the same. No, God, I specifically pointed that out. But in order for the state to encourage the economy, it must also have resources. It is therefore necessary to fill the state budget in order to enable further development from this budget. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8198	Thank you very much. The next representative is the respected Igor Radjenovic and his 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister. Should a country where one quarter of gross social product is a tax debt, whether or not it should be discussed whether tax discipline should be strengthened. I think, according to these discussions before me, it's clear that this law will receive support in that segment. 52 billion unpaid debts, 26 billion of those active are ahead of us. And what is the role of Parliament? Parliament's role is to create conditions, to give the IRS tools to its efficiency. And the fundamental change, the change of roof law that will give the IRS increased efficiency and tools to do so is just today ahead of us. So, general tax law. With the appointment of the new Government of the Republic of Croatia, the appointment of new people in the Ministry of Finance, new people in the Tax Administration has increased this efficiency rapidly. Obviously, the climate has changed, a winter dream bear has woken up, and we certainly look forward to it, and we commend it. And to approach the appeal of counterpart Hajdukovic at last, it finally happened. 52 billion cut-offs, not tax charges, are only one part of the tax that this country has failed to collect. A lot of things aren't cut, a lot of things haven't been seen, a lot of things haven't been charged, because of the gray economy that we know is going anywhere, and there's something more going on with us. But, for example, outside the various estrogen stars in the Republic of Croatia who sing, the hour don't sing, and the IRS hasn't seen them all these years, because of the various types that fly several times to South America, then come back from it, and then build haccendas on thousands of squares, drive angry cars, etc. etc. All these years, they've all been under the IRS, even though the regulations passed in this House allowed the IRS to check, so the possibility of obtaining that property that apparently bounced from all the real gabarites, actually their real incomes. So it is said here that the new government has adopted a series of measures to dissipate the economy and with the strategic objective of economic growth, of course, the main prerequisite for tax reduction is in some way a replica to fellow Vinkovic who was now saying that, the fact that taxes must be paid and paid, and that is the best way to create preconditions, so that in some future we manage to bring taxes to a smaller level and to citizens, and we say about discharging the economy we talked a lot about is not a topic here. It is therefore necessary to continue a number of new laws, laws announced and regulations by the Financial Responsibility Act, from the fiscal register, etc. etc. And those laws that will come to summer in this assembly I look forward to. My colleagues and colleagues, if we charged only 10% of these 52 billion not charged, it would be about the budgets of all the counties in the Republic of Croatia, the annual budgets with the exception of the city of Zagreb just to get a picture of how much neglect or how much of it has been missed in these previous years. The aim of this law is, therefore, the basic two objectives of this law to improve financial discipline, transparency of the work of the Tax Administration, to get a little deeper into the essence. It is good that the law goes in two readings along with all normal relationships in one assembly, so some major debate. But I do estimate it's still a constructive debate. Such a debate was also on the committees that I participated in. What are the changes to this Law? Most of all, it's a tax secret. I'll say something about that later. So, the paper is also a change, a pardoned breach of the legal personality, a settlement for the execution process, a breakthrough of the due debt, and a concession of real estate by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The most important thing, therefore, is the change of tax secrets, and not in a way that the tax secret is abolished, but, therefore, the Institute of Tax Secrets only on two, in two aspects, is tempered and, through the publication of the list of debtors, so this pillar of shame as some have called it too inappropriate. I must say that the publication of the list of debtors is, say, in the Scandinavian countries, i.e. In the Scandinavian countries and the more you go, the more you practically don't have a tax secret institute and all the data is public and open and that's what I think otherwise, the state of society and so in these parts, so financial responsibility is one goal that we aim at ultimately. I think that's far better. The further you go south, the more secure that tax secrets institute is. And the other institute that eases the tax secret that I repeat remains the possibility of publishing the Tax Administration, so after some incorrect statement or publication in the media about the level of certain taxes. I'll remind you, often one of the leaders of a sports association of a football club often talks about how much he has invested millions in the state budget and that this far exceeds what the state budget has provided to that one association of our most popular football club, and the IRS will not have the opportunity to publish such a thing or any other case. The model of this, about this public publication, practically lives in neighbouring countries in Hungary and Slovenia, so it's not about anything particularly drastic. It is good that the law goes in two readings, it is good that we solve certain doubts so that there may be a possible error or clearer reading and a publication that will be on the Tax Administration pages. It is good that, perhaps, in the latter reading, we will come up with a pattern that will thus put the size of the obligors in proportion. It is not the same if someone owes 101 thousand kuna to 200 thousand kuna traffic or millions or tens of millions of traffic. Then there's the time dimension of the debt, and I believe and I know there's always trouble with the IT systems and possible errors. I believe that in these months until the second reading, everything will be done to ensure that the IT system is kept up to date without error. Therefore, the publication of the tax debt and all other improvements to this law will help entrepreneurs to identify themselves who are good, who are bad entrepreneurs to conclude potentially some other business. In any case, it will help suppress unfair competition, and there have been many words about it today. Conditio makes qua non of this law and it allows in one part of this institution a breakthrough is that the state pays its obligations in time and this is this government ready and I believe it will very quickly and liven up this measure. The positive benefit of these amendments is also the possibility of transparent work of the Tax Administration, to reduce the now subjective space of individual tax inspectors and their leaders, the harmonisation of labour and labour standards between individual tax administrations. These are all indirect benefits that will be drawn from this law. And I believe that, I say all the results of these measures will release the potential for effective implementation and other tax administrations and that it will be far more effective in precisely this tax demand that it has so far failed to cover. And as final word to another colleague, Hajdukovic, finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8200	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On your exposure as a direct effect we have reported 5 replicas and 1 correction of the incorrect quote. We're going with the correcting of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8201	Honored Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Radjenovic said the government has taken a number of measures to disband the economy. I find this allegation incorrect because this government has adopted a series of measures that have burdened the work of the Croatian economy. It increased production costs through an increase in electricity prices, through an increase in gas prices, through an increase in VAT, through an increase in inflation still do not count. None of the effects that would have been to discharging the economy has produced any effect, although unemployment is growing, business conditions are difficult, as a consequence Croatia is stagnating economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8202	The replica was reported by Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8203	Dear fellow Radjenovic, finally, I think, at last, that was supposed to be a measure that was known throughout history because it was always a debt that was used to be paid by soap and sometimes by force. It's just perfectly normal. And you shouldn't look at this measure that's in the normal world of orderly states a perfectly normal thing. Unfortunately, we are obviously not yet an orderly state and should not be seen as a measure that will really run everything in this fine one of ours but should be seen simply as a normal legal procedure. I know that now there are praises about the Minister, etc., and indeed the budget is full thanks to this measure, but there are also a number of parallels to say the development of the situation where you have a simple thing that we have a GDP drop, that we have a fall in income tax, that we have transferred a large part of these costs and burdens to the citizens themselves, that no one has yet seriously sat down with the owners other than this yesterday and discussed possible private investments because it is not necessary to forget that Croatian entrepreneurs can invest nearly 2 billion euros in Croatia and that the entire investment should not be converted into that Bolshevik-colony way that exclusively or from those five-years that only the state is going to invest. So I think there are still a number of measures that can be taken to develop and help the economy. One of the measures is, of course, a reduction in VAT, but also fiscal decentralisation. Because the state itself cannot solve the problem of 350 thousand unemployed, the fall of GDP, but it can be done by local and regional self-government but not by these crumbs falling off the table, but by a real fiscal decentralisation and tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8204	Are you reporting for an answer, Mr. Radinovic? Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8205	Here is finally colleague Vinkovic who usually shifts time, but we are well used to it in the assembly...... I just turned it on quietly, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I've been told a lot, but most of all, it bothered me that no one has sat in this government with the economics. In this government is sitting daily with the owners, the heads of this government were before these elections many, many sitting with the owners and a good series of measures except for this yesterday enough, practically the main series of measures is and supported by the Croatian Employers' Association, the other day I was quoting here and the Croatian Employers' bulletins. This yesterday's, yesterday's reaction was a little out of line, but and that's proof, in my opinion, that this move and a series of other moves if you listened to me carefully, I was just talking about a series of other moves because of the effectiveness of my colleague Hajdukovic, I finally don't mean just this law, but all the other laws and all the measures that the Ministry of Finance is carrying out. The government, once again, has relieved this Croatian economy in the amount of billions of kuna on tax alone, to reduce contributions to health care, so 2% in total, and an effect of 2.8 billion, it is the same effect as all investments in the Republic of Croatia. Interests, therefore, on these investments, regular interest on all investments in the Republic of Croatia at the annual level. It's one step, monumental rent, forest fee, etc. The economy is relieved. In the same amount, we know that we have reduced the budget, unfortunately through the effects of VAT it is complicated, but as I said in my debate after, when everyone starts paying taxes then a basic prerequisite is obtained for these taxes to begin to decrease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8206	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić, also a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8207	Thank you, Mr. President. I almost have no objection to what my colleague said about the good side of the law. The fact is that it is positive that tax taxes are spoken publicly, that debtors are public. The fact is that it is positive that those who bring the company into a terrible situation, what thousands there are in Croatia, should be responsible for this. I don't understand why the Employers' Association rebelled against it. It's not about employers to those who work well, it's about other people, so they shouldn't be protected by the Employers' Association, but that's their problem. I'm a little worried about why there's no mention of secret societies anywhere in the law, they're part of a business system in Croatia, so I guess they're a secret, so they don't have to be mentioned much. One thing I worry more about, tax payments have improved significantly and well to improve, but you should be careful in this euphoria of collecting tax money so as not to make more social damage than is the benefit of the collected money. Taxing assets unknown to origin legalizes stolen, thieving and gangster property. You're gonna charge a dealer a 100% tax now, it doesn't matter how much a percentage of the property tax, and you know he couldn't make it any different, tomorrow he's an honest citizen with property. I don't think that's supposed to happen, and I think the government should take some steps in that direction. We have proposed amendments to the Tax Code where such property would not be known in which way it occurred, and then it was obviously illegal to take away such property. And I think that's the only thing a country that thinks about its future can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8208	Ms. Martina Dalic applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8209	counterpart Radjenovic said that if only 10% of tax debts were charged that would be something. Well, I'm actually asking, maybe the deputy minister will answer us, so why didn't it charge? Here's the government's been here for five months, it's pretty trivial. I'm asking why it didn't charge. When this debate creates the impression that there are certain orders in the state of tax debts, some of them are not charged for, and all of this is said in previous discussions. I'm joining your question, why hasn't it been charged already? And it's also said here about a good collection of tax revenues. We can't talk about it if there's no publication, and one of our topics today is public disclosure of taxpayers. We are talking about the collection of tax revenues based on anecdotal information because on the website of the Ministry of Finance there is only January and February, and it does not say anything about any phenomenal charge. It contributes six billion one hundred seventy-five, last year six billion one hundred eighty-six. The value added tax here is the same as in the same period last year. I would like to analyse and praise the progress in the collection of tax revenues only because I would like to have information that is publicly published in line at the end of the month for the previous month, but the Ministry of Finance does not see the advantages of public publication. And finally the singers, they have always been called to the IRS by the taxpayers, only their calls haven't been sent to the media, there's a difference in the current IRS work compared to the previous ones. Taxes are sent to the media. And finally a breakthrough, my friend, you say a breakthrough will allow the state to pay its dues in time. Well, it's a duty to pay with a beating. What is the state going to mean as the strongest economic operator to make up for it, and what will the rest of you do? Well, it's a suspension of the monetary economy of the market economy, and I don't know how to get back into a varter exchange. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8210	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8211	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I can hardly answer the question to Mrs. former finance minister, who was 26 months ago, why didn't it be charged, that question should primarily be referred to itself. Here you are, Mr. President, I beg you. [[Intruder Dalic: No.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8212	You're not gonna do that anymore, are you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8213	You said in your debate that the level of contributions if I heard well tens of thousands of kunas down, so the level of contributions and that as a negative billing in this year compared to last year is about the same level, I'm a good miracle to you, right? Well, yes, but you ignored the data exactly that the contributions to health care were reduced by 2 points, and so in absolute terms at a relative amount of 15% points. There was a lot more, but I've lost my concentration and because you've allowed certain non-discipline, Mr. President, and I'm asking you not to do it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8214	Well, here I am trying, Mr. Radjenovic, to lead the plenary session of the Parliament to make us all as tolerated as possible to each other, and then here is Mrs. Dalic, who is one new representative. She thinks she can speak when she doesn't get the word, and I'm asking you not to. You can't replicate it now, you know that. Thank you very much. Please don't. Vice-President Ruza Tomasic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8215	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajenovic agrees with you, the tax has to be paid, but it is only unfortunate that the state or the IRS is training strictness on small, medium-sized entrepreneurs. You have where they close the trade to a merchant who owes 1200 kunas and doesn't close the big tycoons that owe millions, even the state forgives them for those debts. They say, so they hire 200 people, and maybe in small places 5 employees means a lot more than 200 in some big cities. I would like this to be more transparent, to see exactly who owes, how, why and in what way, and who was forgiven by the debts, and who had to close the trade for 1200 kuna as in the case of a hairdresser who had a single mother for 1200 kuna state closed her turn. So we're not all the same before the law, and here they all repeat that before the law they should all be the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8216	In order to say Vice-President Mr. Leko, the other speaker has a word, so please choose to give a reply to the replica of Mr. Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, and technically, I'll get to know myself better, thank you to my colleagues. Well, as Mrs. Ruža Tomasic said in her replica, she agrees with me, and I agree with her replica. That's exactly what the goal is, and it was in my speech to beneficent this law. So it will allow for a more transparent, more open, clearer work of the Tax Administration, and with that publication it will be seen among those inspectors of the Tax Administration but also among its bosses much easier that things will not be able to push into a drawer which unfortunately happened which was difficult to prove but is visible from all these cases. And it is clear that the Tax Administration did not actively react to these large entities and sometimes it would have been good if they had responded before and if some entities had been and even according to the bankruptcy process if it had started in time for the Croatian economy and then this accumulation of this ball which was relatively small at the beginning of Mr. Šuker and Mrs. Dalic's mandate and... approximately... 52 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8218	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Representative Zeljko Reiner has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8219	In the overall enthusiasm of ruling with this law, I would only draw attention to the fact that when things are compared, then I cannot compare apples, pears and billiard balls. So it is true that VAT-A is equally collected but is forgotten that VAT has been increased in the meantime. So if the same sum is collected then there's some problem today. It is true that they have contributed to healthcare reduced but only since 1 May, and then it is difficult to explain again why there is or is no difference before 1 May. But what I was about to say was actually a respected representative has several times with great praise said that it is good that this law goes into another reading. I personally think it's actually terrifying that we praise the fact that some law goes into another reading. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is clear from Article 159 that only an emergency procedure is adopted by the law only when the interests of the defence and other particularly justified state reasons require it to prevent and eliminate major disturbances in the economy. It is therefore surprising that most of the laws so far have been passed by emergency procedure including the Law on Cemeteries, which is certainly neither about defence nor huge economic disturbances, so I am concerned that we must praise the fact that we are passing one law according to normal procedure, which is in at least two readings, and we know that in the past we have often passed important laws and in three readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8220	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Igor Radjenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8221	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know Mr. Representative that well, so I'm not sure if he was cynical or serious, but it's a really good fact that the laws in this House are being passed in two readings. This very sensitive law is about billions of kunas, tanging hundreds of thousands of businessmen according to it is good to be brought into two readings so if you weren't cynical then you were not clear to me because very often I listened to the president of your club and party when he talks and how it is possible to pass by the urgent procedure of some of the laws that were voted here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8222	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8223	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. We will all agree in turn that with unemployment, non-payment is certainly one of the most dramatic manifestations of negative movements in Croatia in recent years. Non-payment is, in my opinion, a form of systematic robbery, because not paying taxes to the state or not paying the supplier for the goods delivered or the service done is nothing more than stealing or robbing. Unpaying the believer means unauthorized therefore, without the permission of the credentials to use his trade capital and this without paying interest as a compensation for the use of that trade capital. Non-payment is so widespread in Croatia and so hard that we can actually talk with justification about the culture of non-payment. In Japan, the taxpayer would kill himself, make harakiri, and in Croatia the debtor smiles at the believer when the believer calls him if he didn't pay him something. Because of the culture of non-payment obligations, even those who have money do not pay due to the fact that so far in Croatia could not have been paid, and it has profited. The proof that there is money and that tax obligations are not deliberately met is that it has already been announced by Minister Linic that measures in terms of strengthening tax discipline have contributed to improving tax collection. In this way, I'm going to say to a free radical environment, an entrepreneur who neatly settles his obligations is experiencing a complete fool, an inconsistencies man. So I'm talking about one complete absence of social responsibility for business unfortunately one quite large number of Croatian entrepreneurs, not all, fortunately not all, but unfortunately one quite large number. It's just amazing their imagination in creating models and ways to fool the state. For example, the existing company is in charge, and then, without checking financial credibility, all new and new companies are opened, where debt and liabilities are accumulated in the old ones, and incomes are accumulated in the account of the new company or are directed to a private account. Loses and profits between mothers and daughters are being moved, companies' assets are being extracted, used for private purposes and mobilised permanently in consumer goods such as buying villas, apartments, expensive cars, art, such as exotic travel, etc. Once a word problem has escalated to the extreme, non-payment is literally paralysing both economic and financial flows and the rest of the fair business world in Croatia is really crying out for the introduction of financial order. And for this very reason, solving the problem of non-payment is a priority, primary task of this government. The Croatian Constitution also lays down the principle of the justice and equality of the tax system and the proportionate distribution of tax burdens according to the economic strength of each individual. There is no fulfillment of this principle while one is paying, and it is generally those who do not have or have less, and others do not pay, and it is mainly those who have or have more, which means that non-payment is essentially one discriminatory behavior. And precisely because non-payment is the essence of business, I will say, I will say, the Croatian morale of this legislative proposal is to seek to change such immorality, to condemn non-payments, to publicly show non-payments and to influence the awareness of taxpayers about the need to settle tax debts because the state rests, without which state institutions cannot function. Therefore, amendments and additions to the General Tax Code are prescribed which data are considered to be a tax secret, which persons are obliged to keep to the Institute of Tax Secrets and in which cases the data being provided is not injured by the Institute of Tax Secret. These changes and additions allow the tax administration to publish on its website a list of those taxpayers who do not meet their tax debts in due time without the consent of the taxpayer. Such practice of publishing data on non-payments is also known in other EU Member States, even in those where the problem of non-payment is not as pronounced as in Croatia. It is understood that the list would include taxpayers according to clearly and precisely defined criteria, therefore according to the type of tax, according to the total amount of debt and of course mandatory according to the period to which the debt applies. So the period of the whole story is extremely important, it must not happen that a taxpayer is found on the list that is due one day. Of course, care must also be taken to show the greatest defaults, so those who have the most significant negative impact on the budget. Of course, conjecture is a very important assumption, and that a state like me would say the most important link in the payment chain neatly settles its obligations. It must not happen that non-payment of the state is caused by entrepreneurs not being able to comply with their tax obligations. That should be the rule. Similarly, it should not be possible to find those who failed to settle the tax debt on the list of disorderly taxpayers for the reason that they are in charge of litigation for the collection of their income claims, and otherwise the orderly ones paid. What is also valuable in this legislative proposal and is a well-accounted regulation of the responsibility of members of society, especially in cases of abuse in economic business, which results in the inability to pay in debt-religious relations. Such persons responsible for the unpaid or less paid tax will be liable as tax guarantees with their own assets. So finally, the responsible person on the paper will become the responsible person in reality. And what I'm trying to say at the end is that the legal regulations, even the one we're talking about today, are just one solid, I'm going to say that to the computer dictionary hardware. In order for this hardware to be efficient, it needs, of course, good software, and this software, which unfortunately has not yet been or has been too much political will, is the political will to implement the laws. So this government has both political will and tenacity and courage and desire to insist on Croatia becoming a regulated state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8224	Mr. Representative Ante Babic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8225	Thank you, President of the Parliament. In fact, my colleague Jelash, if I followed correctly, said that this law was actually talking about tax credibility and justice, and she also mentioned political will. So how do you believe that when you say supervision of finances, and tomorrow the debtor's register is being held by the Assistant Minister of Finance, and at the same time his wife is, according to this Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency since 29.2.2012, appointed as a member of the Management Board, let's say, the Financial Agency. It's certainly not credible and I believe it's not in conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8226	Did I see that right? Someone's up the line? You, do you have a replica? Here you go. Ms. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8227	Thank you very much. The issue of political will, you know, can be measured, and the question of political will and how it works or how the tax administration works if it works only under the influence of political will, is measured by the ratio of charge and debt. Well, I'll read it now. In 2000, it says the rate of charge and debt, charged 97.8%, 2001. 98.7%, 2002. 97.4%, 2003. 97.3%, 2011. 97.9% Therefore, when dealing with the flat-rate statements that the Tax Administration is working under the influence and the speech of political will, then it is necessary to look at the numbers a little bit. And again, we return to what we are talking about, whether and in what way these provisions will contribute to greater financial discipline and more attractive entrepreneurship or only contribute to the impression of tax repression and tax persecution. And the IRS and the IRS are not here to pursue tax persecution, but to treat all taxpayers equally, to treat them equally and to charge taxes with the instruments at their disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8228	Thank you. You have a reply to the replica of Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8229	Well, here's fellow Dalic, you've tried to document in the data that the IRS has actually done its job well over the last ten years. So that there was this political will that I'm talking about. However, what is not clear is why I ask the question to you and to all of us, and how these 50 billion unpaid, or unpaid, tax debts were created. So, at the end of 2000, those tax debts amounted to half as much as 20 billion. Today they're 50 billion. It's a question that requires an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8230	Thank you. Further in an individual debate there is Mr. Representative Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8231	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister to the co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, more or less everyone was talking about this law that we obviously need, but we can't obviously find ourselves about who's more, who's less right, and I think we'll be right only when we achieve the efficiency of the tax system's business, one that, as a matter of fact, is going to be able to secure one correct purpose of tax duties from taxpayers, even though I'd like those fees to be allocated exactly as they are in some way and actually prescribed, which means that they can be paid. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the JHA provides for measures that are necessary in a regulated state in a financial sense. That doesn't mean that we haven't been a country by now, but that we have to make some kind of possible better or some solutions that might be more efficient. Therefore, the public publication of data in any case on taxpayers who have reached, and not on the basis of VAT, income tax, income tax, cut-offs and compulsory insurance contributions, and other than debts for which the tax authority has granted R & D or reprogramming. The possibility of further publication of data, i.e. complementing data on taxpayers, is foreseen. The members of the management, the executive directors of the capital company, shall be eligible as taxpayers if, in the conduct of the company's operations, they abuse their powers, which would result in the inability to fulfil the tax debt, shall be prescribed by actions to which such liability or damage is applied, and shall define the responsibilities of the members of the company as well as the associated persons. In particular, in order to collect the tax debt, it is stated in terms of the expansion of a company which has the majority right of a ruling company to related or dependent societies. The possibility of a tax act to decide on individual rights and obligations is introduced, the possibility of entering into an administrative contract to implement a tax solution and to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act is introduced, and the possibility of a tax debtor who has a claim to the budget is introduced. The possibility shall be laid down in specific cases of payment of the tax debt to the property. There are also doubts about the service of the DORH in representing the tax authority in property and other rights in front of the court, but in carrying out real estate or in the process of establishing a property right. The process of determining the abuse of the rights of the taxpayers shall only be carried out if all forms of forced collection fail to be used provided that the abuse is demonstrated. The decision to conclude a bankruptcy procedure with data electronically delivered from the Register Court for the purpose of economicity and acceleration of proceedings is equated and it is prescribed that the debtors of the liability tax-debt relationship and the extent to which the implementation is carried out. It is true that the Constitution lays down the tax principle of justice, the equality of the tax system and the uniform distribution of tax and public costs towards economic power. This can be done if taxpayers are brought into a situation to settle their debts in a timely manner on the basis of the tax obligations previously imposed on them by law. It is also true that, in order to strengthen financial discipline, the protection of the legal order and the strengthening of morals, and respect for the principle under which a taxpayer as a participant of a tax-law relationship must act in good faith, i.e. knowingly and honestly in accordance with the law. Of course, that must have been so far. Of course, this Law creates a basis that regulates the relationship within tax-law relations in society and creates assumptions for the financial order. I will not talk here about those taxpayers who may have used various forms of avoidance of payment of tax obligations, and indeed that fact has been established by the relevant authorities. Because we know it's an operation that's regulated in accordance with legal regulations. The practice of non-payment of tax and all other obligations is a necessary part of the financial culture of life and we need concrete, simple measures and regulations to bring them into order. There must not be those who can avoid or bypass it in terms of control and legal oversight and build their profits on it. In fact, taxes should be regulated according to taxpayers in a way that stimulates the economic activity they are engaged in and that they create new values on the market as well as employment in particular. In particular, care should be taken of the orderly taxpayers and those undertakings who pay their obligations in orderly orderly manner. In order to achieve this, one must first introduce order into the tax system and then decentralisation of funds towards local self-government units. Of course, I'm not saying he hasn't been here by now, but there was no decentralisation. So there wasn't enough order for the following reasons that I'm going to list from some of my specific life cases. I mean, I totally support this law, but here's a little question that's bothering me. These are those tax-deposited debts in which a corresponding tax debt was made at the appropriate time, and once here, the Tax Administration did not intervene properly. There may be and therefore there are appropriate reasons I don't know, but let's say these debts have been multiplied with the corresponding legal tightening interest in the past time and created a great burden and an increase in debt. There are cases of liability-making by not paying taxes, which is not allowed under the existing law, so we didn't need a new law for that, and there was no demand for responsibility. This is where the DORH is now mentioned in representing the law. I'm asking if it can be retroactive. Why? Because I have a case or we have a case in which a debt was found not only to the state but also to the banks, other creditors, and he's burdened the property with any state, in this case and local self-government units. I mean, that's exactly the kind of example I'm talking about. All reprogrammes and delays can and will remove some of the debt, but from the appropriate time there was a corresponding tax debt that grew along with the corresponding tight legal interest and, of course, in its time, the Tax Administration was with new payments to settle those old debts, so through regular payments. The old debt remained regularly. Why couldn't he settle? Because there was no possibility for new credit obligations in the situation of over-credit and insolvency, for example, in this case the local self-government unit. It is important to note that such a situation became a reality at the time when it was found that responsibilities and new obligations, i.e. not all obligations had been reported to the Ministry of Finance, so in this case we cannot act as if today was the beginning of a tax debt that was created earlier and could not be returned in another way. This is even the problem in these new frameworks of reprogramme and debt reprogramming opportunities. Therefore, when a little deeper Zagreb is established and the question arises where at that time those funds are not paid at the appropriate time, which are not paid the corresponding tax debt, i.e. on the basis of which the corresponding capital that was on the market and on which the corresponding tax has to be paid, in which it is invested. Because beyond that there are neither adequate general social, i.e. state or investment at the level of local self-government units. In this regard, I would not only point out the problem but also point out that someone who did not settle the tax debt, and of course did not provide for the funds for this, but, on this basis, transferred the debts to the following years must explain where these funds are and if they ended up in personal benefit in any way directly or through the appropriate company, the same means must be found to return the same funds. In fact, we now have to pay taxes that should have been paid a long time ago, some are not paid because obligations have been paid to avoid blocking accounts and work has created riots and indiscipline. Of course, what has not been paid cannot remain unpaid, but someone who has not reported it has not tried or charged. And someone took advantage of that money because there's no money, and today's inflow is certainly less in the economy. Maybe someone in the past has more property than you should have. Here, two questions arise to me, all those taxpayers who are obliged to report real traffic sizes to pay the real amount of tax must be subject to sound financial business control and what about taxpayers who do not have the opportunity to pay taxes that have not been paid before for the irregular work of others, and the inflow of the company's assets does not satisfy the possibility of paying back the tax debt from regular business? Will the Ministry of Finance, after tax reform, implement a restrictive tax charge and will this apply to all taxes? I, like I said, support this law and here's a thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8232	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8233	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear deputy associate, colleague and colleague. Paying or not paying taxes on the one hand by taxpayers, and also so far the work of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Tax administrations could be characterised in a way that it worked at two speeds. The first speed was, or the slowest one, when it came to large taxpayers. And she's the fastest one when it comes to being the smallest craftsmen or even physical ones. And that's something this government has been trying to change. Because of this, paying taxes as something, or not paying taxes as something that should be withdrawn primarily not by legal consequences but by the social condemnation that is strongest, we have heard today from the speech of many who said that just those who paid taxes were treated had a reputation in society as such? Like those who are insignificant, who are so insignificant that they even have to pay taxes. On the other hand, the reputation of those who did not pay and who mocked all of them are great dignitaries. They're often donors, you'll see them at gala dinners. Therefore, it would really be necessary for the health, mental health of the nation to publish primarily their names and then those who owe 10 thousand or several thousand, tens of thousands. Because according to millions and dozens of millions, that's really insignificant. And we just have to put the system back on track, and we need to regain what's most difficult for the citizens to trust. Because citizens, therefore, have seen this very way of doing the state through these institutions as a source of great injustice and great abuse. And no government can function without the trust of its citizens, regardless of the election results. And that's why it seems to me that the greatest role of government, today's government, is to gain citizens' trust. This trust is primarily achieved by righteousness and by any law, especially in its foundations must that righteousness be built in. The justice of tax collection that everyone before the law is equal. Not to be over-granted by those craftsmen who were here, who not only had closed the crafts as some colleagues had spoken but who had lost not only their own property but the property of their entire family, and that no one had asked them or could object that it was not even theirs, for insignificant amounts. There was even so much state that a year ago, she was so jealous that she sold her debt factoring to companies to charge for it. So much zeal, but it's not about zeal, it's not even about malice towards these small, small craftsmen, to individuals. It's about something much, much more dangerous and what we can see through action so far, to change power, through police action and through the operation of the Tax Administration as part of a repressive apparatus towards citizens. And why did the citizens then have no confidence and say in the elections what they said, and why they're going to look closely at the actions of the new authorities, whether that injustice is right. So instead of going through these two big systems to be at least protecting the weak ones, and hard on the strongest ones, we just had a situation that it was often a means to deal with its political inexperiences. Practice, I think it will be published and it should be published, because people are now ready to testify, and it can be looked at as well and checked, it is necessary to do the talking for your health, for the sake of the functioning of this law and which has good intentions for it to actually get such results in practice. So, where, by order, they went to tax controls and when tax officials said there was nothing, that everything was okay, they were ordered to "find something," and on the other hand, where there were applications, signed that in certain companies or in certain craftsmen, it was not handled. And that's so obvious and so many of our people know that right now with this bill, this is a good reason to go right towards those biggest taxpayers. In fact, it is also important to establish a single trust with all citizens very quickly and to be calmed because it has been created, there has been a certain disturbance of citizens, it has created the impression that this is a single campaign, and all campaigns have not ended well, so this is the beginning of a permanent faithful process that is not done through newspapers, at first until things are clean, because if something, if some data comes to the media before it is really powerful and who it has to be informed about, then the citizens will not have a good opinion, they will consider it as some ongoing campaign. Therefore, the General Tax Law in its first norm once contained a fundamental rule of state's trust to the taxpayer. The state must appreciate its taxpayer, who has not easily come to his job, who has not easily done a job, which is not easily charged and who is then obliged to pay between others and the state. On the other hand, the state cannot therefore view the taxpayer as someone who wants to deceive her after the latter, and on the other hand, the taxpayer to the state, sees the state as the one who wants to peel him off. Therefore, transparency in spending such funds is crucial and essential. So the ratio of trust to the taxpayer and vice versa, that's something that must be a fundamental principle of action at all times and that must then be seen through every, almost provision. Why have we come to such an alarming state and how unpaid it is, how many unpaid tax liabilities are there? First of all, not only because of what I said about this practice, because we can also have good laws and democratic laws, but much more unfortunately, it was a non-democratic practice, but in this case, in the collection of taxes, it has been consciously going on since 2004, to suit certain pets, because how else do we explain the situation that by 2003, in 2000, as a coalition government then, we were introduced by one safeguard mechanism that no one could establish a new company before paying off workers, before paying off the state and other creditors regardless of whether they were creditors or any other religion. But you remember that big project fast.hr, so it's under such a one-time cloak, quick registration, no one minds registering fast, but we were just against letting those who cheated on everyone, who caused long-term litigation, and when they had nothing left, they put one away, that power, then made it possible for them to put the key in the lock. How many ruined families with powerful judgments, how can they believe in such a system that has so facelessly deceived them and played them? And only before the end of the term of office do you announce the introduction of such a mechanism. Therefore, you feel now in opposition guilty of making it possible for everyone to steal, cheat and rob because you allowed them to register their company anyway. It's something, it's an unforgivable sin. On the other hand, we were looking for exactly how is it possible that since 1997 we do not have a crime not to pay contributions, not only taxes that are left, but why is the flood a failure to pay pension and health contributions to workers? Because in 1997, it was abolished. In 2000, we returned it to the Penal Code, of course you didn't vote for it. So a whole series of mechanisms are created, which is then created in the public way, so these aren't behaviors that are random, these are behaviors that have legal roots, and that's something that needs to be eradicated. And that's why all these standards that other colleagues have been talking about, to which this is being prevented, should certainly be welcomed. However, I particularly draw attention to the fact that this law would have and receive everything that the applicant intends and we all support this law, it must not be blasphemed, which means that no pillar of shame can come to those who have, whose tax debt or tax debt solution is finally. We're an orderly state, we have to listen to the word of the court. So, both to the power and to not only the final but to the rightful end of such a thing, there is no hanging on the pillar of shame, because you will encounter there about many tax debts where, at first, they looked like debts, but just the Administrative Court has annulled such solutions and on the other hand you will encounter and I am asking the question of the responsibility of these tax officials who, in the name of the State, handed over to the court for the collection of what was long ago, became obsolete. And who have they damaged? They pretended to be conscious, and outdated claims began to charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8234	Thank you. Just one correction to an incorrect quote and two replicas you have Mrs. MPs. Here is Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8235	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic said this law should be passed for the sake of the nation's mental health. That's incorrect. I'm not much of a tax expert, but I understand that it needs to be brought in for effective tax collection, of course, and the stability of finances. But I would also like to say to my fellow Members that it will not bring to the mental health of the nation a certain amount of VAT increase, an increase in energy prices, a natural rise in unemployment, because by definition of the World Health Organization, health is a complete mental, physical and social well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8236	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8237	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, there could be a lot of reflection here on the exposure of fellow Anticevic here, I'll just have one thought. The Parliament is one place where you can and in some way embellish or reduce some or thoughts or facts but this turns into a demagogy salon that I think has gone beyond measure. In my opinion, you are an ordinary cheap demagogue in this exhibit and nothing more, because you are talking about the state of the nation's mental state that a new justice should be introduced in terms of tax or debt. That's the point of your exposure. And you're the ones who stopped the execution, you're the ones who personally represented that you should, and you made it stop the charge of the executioner, you know what I'm talking about. And if we were to follow that law as valid as it is today, there would be much less debt in Croatia, much more spiritual health and mental health. And how dare you say you want a more effective state now. And the note bene, by the way, here's what I'm saying if someone here thinks that a single debtor or all the debtors are going to change something, no. In my opinion it won't change anything because whoever can pay the tax he pays him, whoever takes care of his reputation in the family society, he pays taxes. One reminder or another reminder will remind him of his debt, the man being... The IRS will pay that tax and it'll be fine. But the one who doesn't take care of his reputation is the one who doesn't have a place to pay the tax. The fact that he publishes the data won't change anything. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8238	Thank you. Now we will hear an opinion through the reply to the replica of Ms. Anticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8239	I leave these meals to you and your housekeeping, and I don't want to answer. But I want to answer what I can, in part, agree that the law itself will not do so in itself. But what you're saying is that the state should also, and that's what the other colleagues said, and I also agree with that, is that it's the one who intended to discipline others who had to discipline themselves first of all, and it's just being seen right now from the behavior of the authorities, that he pays everything that's mandatory and that's not being paid during your government, but it's being paid to whoever he wants what was the source of corruption, big corruption. And also to the one who wanted to hurry up his payment so that he could keep paying his debtors was told if you were looking, you wouldn't get the following jobs. So it was a picture of a state like that. So here's a dear colleague of yours who says public announcements won't get a result because whoever has a social reputation usually pays for it, that's how it should be, but unfortunately it's not. And that's what I've been trying to tell you, and you know it well, so now we're going to see this picture of big successful businessmen showing themselves that they haven't been successful in paying their taxes, but that's the least of their guilt. Most of all, it's your fault that you didn't ask them to. And why didn't you ask for it is clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8240	Thank you very much. And the replica of Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8241	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Ingrid said it was a conscious guess. Yeah, well, you did an excellent job opening that subject because you let me ask you something I've always wanted to know. In 2003, why was tax debt increased to 10 billion kuna? I worked for eight years at the Ministry of Finance, I never realized it. The end of 2003. 23.8 billion kuna, near 2002, 13.3 total chargeable, controversially charged, live, unlively, tight interest. Never again in one year has the tax debt increased in one year. I'm reading growth by 2.4 billion in 2004, along with tight interest rates, in the fifth three, at the sixth 2.7 in the seventh 3.2 in 2009 the most severe crisis that the DZS informed us yesterday that GDP fell 7%, the debt increased along with tight interest rates of 5.6 billion in the tenth 4 billion to 11.6 billion kuna. How and why has it increased by 10 billion in 2003? You were the Minister of Justice, so explain to me how and then what does that bargain mean? It seems to me that the bargaining was strong when in one year the debt increased by 10 billion. You're saying that there's an impression that campaigns are being conducted and that now that this list is published, this list will move towards large taxpayers, so of course it's a campaign, so the IRS knows who the taxpayers are. So if that's the point of charging why Tax administration doesn't charge? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] If it's all that simple and just a matter of political will, am I asking that question again?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8242	Thank you. And you will probably get an answer through the reply to Mrs Anticevic-Marinović's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8243	You're referring to the early 2000s, you're talking about how I was a minister, and while I was a justice minister, there were neither unpaid nor overtime nor anything, and we hired 500 people. So much for my resor. But as a minister, and then I know that in 2002 we found a tax debt of 24 billion. But you answer me, Mrs. Dalic, how did you, as finance minister, leave this country with a debt of 50 billion kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8244	Now she can't explain it to you because she has no right to... I'm saying she can't, unfortunately, explain to you the former minister, but you'll be able to explain it publicly to your colleague after the debate. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going further into debate, individual debate. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Madam Representative Melita Mulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8245	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic finished her reply to the replica with 51 billion kuna debt. Although some club representatives have already stated this morning that they are unpaid claims of 55 billion kuna, I will limit myself to data from the Ministry of Finance, that is to say, a presentation that followed these amendments to the General Tax Code, and I will once again make it clear that the debt situation of active and slow-paying taxpayers as regards the principal was nearly 34 billion kuna, with interest totaling more than 51 billion kuna. Since, in one place, it is impossible to find united, more detailed data on unpaid taxes, therefore for each type of tax and in terms of value added tax, profit tax, income tax and compulsory insurance contributions, analysis of the FINA report and data from the Institute of Public Finance, I am only talking about the contributions in 2010, for example, about 13% of the total taxes and contributions paid. Is it necessary to remind colleagues and colleagues that, after the announcement and after the first days of the application of the regulation adopted by this Government, which prevents the payment of the net salary without payment of contributions from the list of so-called ‘. Bad employers were excluded from nearly 13800 entrepreneurs with around 105 000 employees, of whom about 5,000 paid their contribution debt. Only outstanding contributions in 2010 are around 2 billion kuna, and if the data are compared over a 10-year period then it is seen that unpaid claims have grown since 2004 and more significant growth in 2009 and 2010. Part of it is the consequences of the crisis. Since, according to the General Tax Law, that is, its Article 96, the absolute period of limitation for the determination of tax obligations and interest and their collection occurs six years after the date on which the limitation began for the first time, it is estimated that out of the total debt of nearly 51 billion for taxes and contributions only half of them could be charged, so we have a write-off of nearly 25 billion kuna. So I'd like to appeal to the Ministry of Finance to publish more detailed information on unpaid taxes and contributions, so according to their structure, in one place and part of those to be written off. In particular, it is necessary to welcome the amendments to the legal institute of the tax secret, i.e. public publication of the list of taxpayers with the highest amount of the total tax debt. In fact, if our aim is to ensure the social well-being of citizens, if our objective is economic development, if our goal is to control and reduce public debt and deficits, if our goal is to operate the rule of law, protect the legal order, and if we expect the active role of the state in this, then we must support this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the general tax law. This proposal enables timely payment of obligations, and the obligation to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with economic opportunities and on the principles of equality and justice is a constitutional obligation for everyone, and it is a duty for all of us and our colleague Marasovic to protect the Constitution, and the constitutionally prescribed tax principle in reality is only enforceable if we all comply with our obligations in a timely manner. I also welcome the intention to establish the clear and precise criteria for the publication of the list of debtors because such a proposed solution will cover the qualitative and quantitative most significant cases, so those who have the greatest threat, i.e. the negative effects on the state budget, because here several colleagues and colleagues have talked about showing small entrepreneurs. And it is clear that in this sense and protection of personal data and other data will be protected by those whose, say, citizens whose debts are below 10000 kuna. When it comes to constitutional obligations, therefore, if participation in the settlement of public costs is a constitutional obligation, each constitutional obligation and the right to access information owned by the public authorities and the Council of Europe conventions, based on the principles of public presummation of official documents and proportionality in limitation, and in the service of public interest, all official documents available by public authorities should be made available to interested authorities unless, of course, it is a threat to national security. So the Institute of Tax Secrets is finally changing and it's in the public interest. In the public interest is the transparent conduct of the tax administration, in the interest of each citizen the active role of a state that ensures social well-being and economic development. In the interest of workers, it is in the interest of workers to have timely contributions to be able to have a pension and in the interests of workers is what is called a legal personality breakthrough institute, and it is that it will finally be prevented that a new company is simply established in bad or illegal business, that the owner retains capital, and that the worker has nothing to be paid out of because, for example, he is employed in the company of a daughter with a modest capital and retains a significant property in the basic capital of a mother's society. The members of the management and founders of the companies will finally be held accountable to personal property, not only to part of the personal investment capital, of course under clearly defined provisions. And to conclude, the reduction of public debt and deficits, the right to access information that is of public interest, the transparent work of the state administration body, the insurance of workers in the form of insurance of the right to a secure pension by payment of contributions, but indirectly and the insurance of the job and workers as creditors, are more than enough reasons to support this law, to support the introduction of order and legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8246	Before I give you Mr. Vinkovic a word for the replica, I would only ask you because when my colleague Mulic started speaking, her colleagues and colleagues said, you have already raised your line. Here you go. ... I registered it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, you're right, I just don't know why. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8247	I do know, however, the Honorable Mr. President's system and the way the SDP works, that's what you'll let me do. I'm laughing. And I at this exposure can only say uh, uh. Because if our esteemed colleagues really are the aim of the citizens' well-being, then we don't raise the VAT to those citizens, so when they go to the store, they have to pay 2% more expensive, we don't raise their gas, we don't raise their electricity, we don't raise them a number of things. We usually put pressure on them with these suggestions. And indeed this is not the path which leads to prosperity. These measures I said we were the first to initiate. It's not about any pillar of shame. It's a normal, tax-based financial activity. Pay off those who didn't pay. But whether it will affect the deficit reduction will not. Because if you have carefully read the 2012 draft budget Year and last year's 2011 budget They would have seen that it was planned 7.7 and a deficit of about 14.7 billion kuna was achieved, and this budget was planned by a deficit of 9.9 billion kuna with a new loan debt of 20 billion kuna. And if you read the indicators that the total debt of the state has increased this first external debt then obviously we're moving again towards that Sanader or HDZ banana. And this won't solve anything except temporarily filling the budget. Now, at the end of the day, I'm sorry to have to say this, but obviously I could put a full identity mark, not equality. That's the one with three even horizontal lines. HDZ identical to SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8248	Thank you. Not exactly what you last said, but that's what you said. Here's Mrs. Representative. Take it easy, please. Answer to Mrs. Mulic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8249	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Vinkovic, the only one who is here, as well as the representatives and MPs, raises the pressure is you, in the sense of constant repetition of inaccuracy, and apropos raising VAT. First of all, it is clear that yesterday you were all able to make sure that the VAT increase did not rise and VAT was increased so that we could unload the economy and create jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8250	You used it yesterday. Your colleague used the breach of the Rules of Procedure because you abused them. You want to do it any further? Because I give you my word, but I can also take it away very quickly. Here you go, Mr. Agent Vinkovic. What's the breach, please call on the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8251	... through a court ruling, and above all, it is a violation of Article 214 where you should have warned the honourable representative, since she was belittled or insulted, I find it difficult to offend, other MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] That is what Article 214 states. You should have, look, I listened to you very carefully, and the Croatian government is very hard to insult after plan 21 which became a plan 25. And more nonsense about the prices not going up there I haven't heard in my life. Also that the prices in the store did not collect. Obviously, since you entered the Parliament, you haven't entered the store.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8252	Please. It's already a debate, please. I said it was already a debate. Mr. Representative, there's something I need to tell you. You're very sensitive. Yes, it is when it comes to you. But when it comes to others, then you don't need to see the possible sensitivity of your colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I have to tell you right now about your violation of the Rules of Procedure that you pulled in order to say here's what you said. Thank you. That's how you ended up. Thank you. And we have a replica. Well, look, if we're using a replica instead of correcting the incorrect quote that we have while we're at it, then it's good to act like one. So, you give your opinion on the presentation of a basic speaker or speaker. Then you get an answer, then there's no need to use another institute that can't be used anymore. I'm begging you. That is certainly what Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic will do when he gives a replica to Mrs. Mulic's presentation. Here you go, Mr. Representative Grubisic. ... You don't have a word, sir. You don't have a word. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8253	Thank you very much. Comrade Mulic, you were saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8254	Please don't have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8255	So you said now, so did you invite me?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8256	No, no, you do. But sir, look, your colleague Vinkovic won't let you talk, so I'm telling him not to talk anymore. I'm asking him nicely. Yeah. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Representative Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8257	Thank you very much. My colleague Mulić, you were talking about the Institute of Tax Secret, and then you talked about the principle of equality and justice. I agree with you on that. However, it would be much better if the Institute of Tax Secrets meant that we would get a list or a publication of whatever you want for those who are the discretionary law of the Tax Administration in the past 12 years not only for the last 8 years of government, where they are, where there has been a tax limitation and tax write-offs. And you know there's that, you said 25 billion kuna. It would be good for us to see everyone who's been written off and everything that's gone into obscenity and who's gone into obscenity. So, since the debate here said that at the end of the SDP mandate in 2004, there were 24 billion tax debts, and now there are 50 or 51 I would say that is equality. That is exactly what SDP and HDZ equality is, therefore, proven. Well, actually, it's about the crow mocking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8258	Thank you. Replicate response, Ms. Representative Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8259	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, in my debate, I've already pointed out one time can't underline the sign of equality. Namely, if you look at the curve, if you clearly look at the outstanding claims over the past 10 years since 2004 it has been growing progressively. And I, in particular in 2009 and 2010, personally in my own debate, advocated that the Ministry of Finance make a clear list of those claims which will be written off in accordance with the General Tax Law and its Article 96. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8260	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic has a word in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8261	Here's Mr. President of the Parliament, MPs and MPs. After all these competent and funny speakers who have said everything here, I will try and give my pain to this debate. Therefore, as regards this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Code, the whole law is aimed at effective implementation of the collection of all tax and inland obligations to the State. As far as I'm concerned, and my colleague Vinkovic spoke on behalf of the club, go ahead. Publish the taxpayers, publish me if and when I had any tax debt or if I had one. Detect connected and dependent societies, connected persons. Some state effectively and uncompromisingly charges its commitments. Let there be no untouchables, no privileged ones, no more of yours or ours at tax. The message that this amendment of the law sends is a good message that all citizens will be equal before the law. And let it be so-called. Entrepreneurs and complains that it encourages an anti-enterprise climate or encourages resistance to entrepreneurship, many of them did not object when workers ended up on the streets, when companies collapsed, when the Croatian regions receded, or when young people did not have new jobs. Many of them complain because, in order not to be made public, they are large debtors to the state. They hide their profits, and I'd say sometimes my low interests behind tall or big words. Show that you are consistent and that the Minister of Finance often says that they will not be untouchable. But it certainly needs to be proved, and it will be possible to prove itself not on Thompson, but, say, on Struk, on your own, on your own. Where are the problems? The state, as well as the general direction of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, firmly directed itself to stabilise its fiscal revenues, to uncompromisingly account with all those who will not be disciplined in carrying out their obligations. On the other hand, a large part of the company is practically on edge. Unlike the first Deputy Prime Minister, who is on the edge, partly in private, part of the state-owned, called dead tissue to be surgically removed, I think that this is in the good part not a dead body, but an infected tissue that does not need a surgical knife and removal but an effective and targeted antibiotic that could be saved to the greatest extent, rather than a removal. This antibiotic for the economy should be provided by the state through targeted and effective support measures for those companies that could be saved. The state does not serve itself, nor itself, nor the banks, nor any economic-political elite. The state itself does not need to be a purpose, the state serves to regulate human relationships, create conditions in which people can live better and better. Therefore, the state should not be focused on itself but on the improvement of its citizens. Because what's a rich country and poor citizens? It's similar to that story that the operation worked, but the patient died. In the past few months, this government has made several good moves and measures that have relieved the economy and we have supported all these measures and voted for them here in the Croatian Parliament. We will also support this bill because this bill makes sense and that is one good measure. But on the other hand, in some other aspects, the state acts as a drunk millionaire and pulls the whole series, in my opinion, entirely wrong moves. Many, very expensive and unnecessary agencies are being established with a large number of newly employed workers taking over those jobs that could already be carried out by existing state bodies. Hundreds of millions of kunas are aimed at making sure that measures to encourage a reduction of unemployment through self-employment projects or through reliefs for the employment of unemployed. This money should be directed towards creating a new value that will create job rights in the real sector, not fictitious in the public sector. It's about to be sold and what few of the remaining public goods that have been created by generations before us. The rest of the banking sector is being handed over into the hands of foreign capital, the one still owned by Croatia. Slovenian banks ended with several hundred million kuna losses in 2011. Croatia's foreign-owned banks ended up with billions of kuna gains. Who made that profit? Are Croats or Slovenes? Public competitions are abolished and only party personnel are often fully incompetent for these jobs. Why was Leo Begovic removed? A man who inherited a riot behind the ant in HEP and debts of over a billion kuna and in a relatively short time consolidated HEP and brought him into a positive business. Only because he was appointed by the HDZ government. Well, that man had an excellent business result, and he was brought to his place by an incapacitated man who, as a first measure, raised the electricity price by over 20%. Gas, electricity and other energy prices have been raised, so more citizens have no idea how much they spend. The price of VAT has been raised, public transport has been collected, water, various fees. And the government's only central political focus is on filling the state budget. Citizens are led to the edge and pushed over that edge and then the question arises whether the state serves citizens or citizens serve the state? One illustration. When the disciples were hungry, they went to the grain field to read the classes, and then the Pharisees asked Jesus, it is Saturday, not to be worked on Saturdays. And Jesus answered them whether they were serving a Sabbath to a man or a man on Saturday? Here I am, a series of parallels I would withdraw, is the state serving citizens or citizens serving the state? What's it for? I do not think you have detected the structural problems of the Croatian economy and Croatian society, nor have you offered the right answers to these structural problems. To one good measure such as these come two that are not good, which are missed. So to recap, I support as the HDSB club has supported these amendments to the law, they are good, they are necessary but they should also start to implement those measures that will be in the citizens' interest, which will finally in their real lives, in their revenues feel that they are related to them. Most citizens do not feel that they have anything to do with the state budget. Therefore, not only measures that encourage or facilitate the position of capital or central state, but those measures that will indeed be directed towards citizens, who will feel in their lives as those measures that make life better, better quality or easier for them. Because at this point, citizens are being led to the edge, and the state is still sinking into a recession that is not being seen at the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8262	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8263	Dear colleague. I hope I don't give you any pressure. And since I'm this guy, I'm not that sensitive, so you can answer me. [[You won't.]] In fact, he really wants to replicate you, although we are in the same club, you said that we supported all the measures of the Croatian economy, I will say only certain measures but not increase, the increase in VAT, because the SDP considers, or the Kukuriku coalition that the VAT increase is one of the measures that will trigger the Croatian economy. It's not in either one, so I'd say even in that kindergarten for economists, not in any economic textbook, that VAT growth can start production and the economy. Nevertheless, these major countries in the European Union should be seen, not to sell fog to citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. I believe that less phone calls should be made for the salary of an average Croatian citizen, but this less telephoning will in any case not allow the average Croatian family to warm up better in that difficult winter when they beat these huge measures by the Croatian government than the increase in gas, electricity and the suspended fees for these same energy products. And only that, regarding these statistics, at the end of 1999, 6.1 billion kuna of tax debt, in early 2003. 14.7 billion tax debt, at the end of 2003, you wounded two thousand and twenty-four billion kuna, and in early 2012, now 51 billion kuna. The identity mark is right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8264	It wouldn't be bad if we were once the economics manuals in kindergartens, but we didn't, I don't know that you know if there is somewhere? Replica reply, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8265	Thank you. Well, here we go. "Quod's face hunts, not facial wrinkles." Isn't that right, Mr. President? [[Intruder: Comment, I have no right to speak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8267	Of course, we are not at this moment in the Croatian Parliament, we are...... We're an opposition that's quite clear, but we're neither a non-critical opposition nor some entertainer here who is laughing or having fun. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are trying and working here and trying to be constructive, and therefore we will not behave as was the practice of either the left or the right that we uncritically reject everything or uncritically accept everything in the offer. Therefore, we have supported all those measures that are reasonable, which are developmental and that go for the better of citizens as we have also made clear and loud against everything that has not gone in favour of the citizens and in favour of the improvement of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8268	Thank you very much. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8269	Thank you, Your Honor. Is this what the government proposes, and the proposal has taken over from the Croatian Labourists who have just sought a similar solution for tax defaults, is that a pillar of shame? Does the government want by pointing fingers at those who do not want to pay taxes to create an anti-enterprise climate as stated by the head of the Croatian Employers' Association Ivan Ergovic? The president of the HUP says, "We're not the problem, we're the solution to the problem." They are, of course, but provided they not only adhere to Croatian laws but also provided they work according to the principles of, for example, the Scandinavian business model. Capitalist predators are not the solution but are the problem. And almost everything HUP chief Ergovic is wrong. It is not the problem that our employers, more specifically the capitalists, are the solution to the problem of workers. Because across the back of workers, all the problems are solved, even the problems of huge losses in banks. In Croatia capitalists are often not the solution to the problem because all of their frustrations, all of their ignorance, personal and family breakthroughs are solved precisely at the expense of workers. And the more they choke together, the more they choke labor, all their problems, incompetence, poor staff policy, uninventivity, poor investment, wrong estimates, many capitalists think they can get rid of collective agreements. They want below the human dignity of a cheap worker, a country that will scrutinise their non-payment of salaries, tax evasion and non-payment of contributions, therefore, are not workers a problem. The first and biggest problem are incompetent managers and incompetent employers, the second biggest problem is the expensive state whose government has no courage to implement any reform. The government deals exclusively with tax collection and cosmetics, strategies and no trace, of course, that enabling taxpayers to publish is not a pillar of shame, but an incentive measure that should be that a little more courage and much more concrete and much stronger. Why should the state be a mother to one of them, according to other stepmothers? Which is why part of the valuable, fair and truly business capitalists does everything to pay bills first, cold drive, workers' salaries and contributions, and only then puts profits in their pocket, and the part without paying bills first buys castles, planes, yachts, expensive cars, sends children abroad to school, and is tampered with by someone else's money on the front pages of the payer's newspaper. Which is why part of capitalists operate in accordance with the law, and the louder part, such as HUP chief Ergovic, does not want to respect laws and collective agreements. Ergovic has been breaking the law for a long time and systematically cutting down workers, but sees the devil as the state doesn't even know or doesn't want to know about the behavior of the first man in Croatia to the employers' association. According to his practice in Croatia, the anti-worker climate predominates before all climates. Ergovic illegally reduced workers by a collective contract of prescribed salaries by as much as 25% but therefore gives managers special premiums. And he's still sharing with a high-level lesson about work and ethics. Workers in Nexa Group are getting late salaries but not because of their lack of work and not because of the anatisfactory climate, but because of the megalomania and their boss acting like an untouchable oligarch. The nation teaches business and business ethics, Ivica Mudrinic, a harsh manager who would not increase the profits of Hametica's bosses, is firing workers. And of course he dares to talk about the anti-enterprise climate as if work was not part of entrepreneurship. We're filling the budget by the speaker Ergovic yesterday, and the workers don't fill it. Besides whose back was the VAT increase? On the back of citizens of workers, not capitalists. Economic development prevents precisely those who owe more than 50 billion taxes to the state, as well as a country that often fails to pay the jobs done by the companies, especially those less. Why should non-payment of VAT, non-payment of income taxes, non-payment of income tax and non-payment of a cut be a secret, in particular no justification for non-payment, especially if the owner or manager of the company is in the cash for personal pleasures. Croatian capitalists are angry because the public finds them mostly negative. And for that negative impression they blame politics and the media, and the media tycoons hold either in their hands or in their hands. Citizens have not forgotten Croatia's tycunisation in a robbery way. Besides, what did HUP do to get the weed in his ranks? Nothing. He's been confusing the situation, and it's not what the citizens are doing, it's what they're punishing with mistrust. Yes, the publication of debtor defaulters will also encourage the return of part of the tax debt and a more timely payment of the current loss and contribution. This law forces company leaders to be far more responsible than they are now. Of course, on that wall of tax shame as the publication of the debtor is defined by the HUP-Ovec Ergovic, those debtors to the state to whom the same state owes money or those debtors who conduct a judicial dispute over their own claims or those debtors owed money by local self-government, but also after they are found in the public register of debtors, employers are in a unique advantage over workers. According to workers, the mother state has allowed the repressive apparatus, notebooks, lawyers, courts to collect the debt of 350 kuna but adds five times the cost of its account. Employers are forgiven for interest if they do not pay the spirit immediately, workers are charged a debt immediately with 500% interest. Therefore, the law is acceptable but some of the proposed amendments to the General Tax Law are illogical and unfair because they treat business entities differently for the same infringements. This proposal is unfair to amend the laws by craftsmen to which the name and last name should appear on the list of debtors. Why not just the name of the craft? Yes, a natural person is the owner of a craft but equally a natural person and president of the board of society, boss. Why is the tax debt of a craftsman haunting the family up to the fourth generation and the president of the company's administration answers himself? Can't the president of the company's management spend money on, for example, his daughter's or his son's apartment? It wouldn't be the first time. It wouldn't be the last time. The family must be a tax guarantee to tradesmen but not to the presidents of the administration who most often hides thousands of times more crimes against the state. Where an entrepreneur is a natural person, the procedure for determining the abuse of rights may include those facts that are not related to its economic activity, the draft law states. Why doesn't it also apply to the president of the board of directors of society? So why does a craftsman have to guarantee a return of debt to the state in the fourth generation and a member of the board of society doesn't have to? Why, for example, is the law more rigorous towards a carpenter or a baker, more unfair than it is to one of the small or large ergovics? And finally whoever can pay the tax salary said counterpart Marasovic just before, that's not true. Those who paid the tax debt immediately means they had money. They only paid under threat, but the way it suits them. The terms of whether or not to pay interest set for example by Todorovic, not by state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8270	Thank you, too. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Today, everything has already been said in connection with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Tax Code. It's clearly that ex or famous article 8. Which Institute of Tax Secrets was widely used, and even when parliamentary deputies were written either here in the assembly benches or from the parliamentary payphones asked directly for certain taxpayers, or for their potential limitation, write-off or debt tax, which, according to some knowledge, was clearly off the record, hundreds of millions of kuna, the answer was always according to Article 8. General Tax Code, this information cannot be given to you except or exclusively in the case of a court dispute. And court disputes for antiquity or tax debt of 51 billion kuna have never actually been. That's actually the real question. Why has there never been a sharp and clear sanctions against the taxpayers who owed, so let's say from these 10,000 kunas that are foreseen here for ordinary mortals to those hundreds of millions of kunas for some media tycoons who wrote and were similar to those who ruled either of them or Kukuriku or SDP, and wrote in their favor excelling their wisdom and intelligence that we now have translated into an increase in VAT from 23% to 25%, an increase in energy prices in electricity, gas, fuel and an increase in general prices in all wholesale shops, retail, etc. It is said my colleague Djurovic said that dead tissue or gangrene to say medically said the first Deputy Prime Minister should be removed. It's she surgical sometimes cut off means cure, sometimes but only sometimes. However, if I talk to someone about the human body, we cut off something like a leg, that country or that society becomes very often disabled. Cut off the Adriaticman, cut off the Đakovština, KIO Orahovica, and I don't know who doesn't. The way we got it, the way it was done by cutting it. We do not have any ceramic tiles in Croatia, but it is obvious that imports are imported from Spain and Italy. Turn the tile if someone bought it and you'll see where it writes made in. And just a tile, even the stone ornaments we import from China, as counterpart Vinkovic said. It's a common country. It was told by Governor Rohatinski that everything that should not have fallen has fallen. Whoever thinks of that statement, I think that, speaking exclusively in economic language, everything is clearly said, from gross social product, production, exports and everything else. And yet from the official circles of the government, Croatia says it is pulling more slowly from the crisis because later it went into crisis, or later it entered the recession. Which is why she later entered, according to Sanader's statement that the recession would only tick us off, and it was already when he said it and deep down, it had lasted eight years and more. That's why she never got out of a crisis and recession all these 20 years. Clearly, adding banks, now Croatia's insurance company, the Post Office, so we can go until we sell all of Croatia like Greece sold the infrastructure to China or I don't know who. The HDSSB is and is personal and I am for the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the General Tax Law with this, with one small proposal to offer before and before the second reading and before this publication any way you want to say the pillar of shame or I don't know, once again to those who offer and talk to those who don't want to comply with their tax obligations so that they don't get there. The aim of this law is not to embarrass people on the pillar of shame, but the aim of this law should be to further fill the state budget. The only question is where and how is this charge Mr. Linic called to be excellently charged with the state budget, so the state is on profit, where and how it is spent. Because it is obvious that neither this government nor the former government has any ingenuity to perform Croatia out of the crisis. You can tell by bad investment. About that, I wouldn't want to talk about HUP champions and champions like Ergovic, Mudrinić and those who give advice here, because perhaps with 200, 300 thousand kunas you can say whatever you want in this country, especially if you have media in your own, but either in co-ownership or under control because someone for a few thousand kunas will write whatever they want in the paper. It can make you blue or gold in the paper or on the electronic media of some kind. It is true that if the state fills its budget, so it stabilises its finances, but by increasing the price of electricity, gas, water, by increasing VAT, excise duty, etc., you get a strong state and a poor people. And this measure will withdraw and most likely fill an additional state budget, but the people will be poor and out of work. We would love to see these measures result in a smart investment, a smart and once-inventivity that will finally stimulate what creates profit, which creates added value. And the fact that the state is strong and that it can behave extensively by setting up, as someone said, new agencies and hiring similar agencies, and by unnecessarily creating these agencies and unnecessarily new employment in the administration first and foremost, the agencies are administration, and that's not how it works. A breakthrough, it was about a breakthrough. I was wondering, I was thinking a little bit when I came out on the terrace over here, which would mean a breakthrough. The state owes the peasant a boost, and he owes her some kind of tax, so it should be a breakthrough. Well, he can only bring pigs to the tax administration or lamb to beat up his debt. Whether the state will settle its obligations sought by peasants both these days and on incentives and on support signed by the government or this government does not recognise the former, the signatures of the former government, as if we were some other state or occupied state. So, I wonder what that breakthrough will look like. As a trade in goods, as an original society, you give me 200 kilos of corn, I'll give you one sheep or pig. If he can't pay for that peasant who's actually been brought into a state of social affairs, that's why he can't pay for some things, which he'll pay for if he's pressed by the tax administration or the state, in other words. So there are things to think about until the second reading, and I think you can also improve this legal proposal that we support essentially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8272	Thank you, Your Honor. Before I give the right of business to the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic, I would like to point out that the truth is that representatives in the Croatian Parliament do not have an imperative mandate, but the truth is that the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament represent their politics and policies as clubs, so we wanted to build a democratic standard that there is no replica within the same club, but since it will not be possible to prohibit such practice, but it is a democratic standard, we will give the right to the replicated representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8273	No, no. You'll have to give me a valid one, according to the Rules of Procedure. This is a democratic standard, and we're a democratic party, so let's let some things go through this replica and add up. A colleague mentioned Đakovština, mentioned conversion and privatisation, mentioned KIO, did not mention Dalmatia wine and a series to say Jadrankamen and a series of meetings of Croatian government with entrepreneurs and workers by sending probably police. But I will return here to Djakovština where the state was one of the culprits through two members of the Supervisory Board for not paying taxes or contributions to health or pension or so on or so forth. But we don't need to talk about the pillar of shame here, nor is it an Indian torture stake. This is about the list of obligations of those who owe the state. Most of me believe and I want to believe that 70% of this possibility of charging these entrepreneurs that it is not by its incursion, but even that global economic crisis did not come into the situation that at this point, therefore, it cannot pay off its debt. One large majority and this should be made possible regardless of the time limit laid down in the law, it should be possible to make a flat-rate payment normally with legal payment insurance. So, this is neither anti-entrepreneurship law nor I hope that both these discussions in the Parliament and pointing to the problems of entrepreneurs will not be seen as an anti-entrepreneurship climate. On the contrary, it is aimed at developing healthy entrepreneurship, and we should not all forget together that it is not the only government that can launch Croatia, but precisely Croatian entrepreneurs, because at this point they can invest 2 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8274	A party colleague, respected representative Boro Grubisic, wishes to respond to.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8275	Yeah, thanks to my colleague Vinkovic for the update. Namely, there was a speech here of 2% lower contribution to health care. It's like when a cow milks a lot of milk, and then it kicks and everything goes 20 percent up the price of electricity, gas and other energy. As far as the Dalmatia you mentioned is reliable, I can offer the Government of the Republic of Croatia a solution, but the Government did not accept it. She prefers to forgive Berkovic for the excise duty that no one has the right to forgive, but they forgave him and yet failed, and there are, there were domestic customers who offered the rescue of Dalmatia but the government deliberately refused to do and save Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8276	Thank you too, dear colleague. Now they'd stop arguing, take a break and see each other at 3:00. The next first speaker is the respected representative Sasa Djuic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8277	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. An individual debate. Representative Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8278	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This law continues to introduce measures that show a twist and a new policy direction in Croatia, and this new direction is to introduce order not only in tax terms but also in all other parts of our society. The measures introduced so far, but also the announcement of certain measures, such as the publication of the list of taxpayers, have led to beyond the planning of filling the state budget. So in recent days, a joke has been circulating Croatia, and the joke is – do you know what Chuck Norris is doing in Zagreb? He's asking Slavko Linic to pay his taxes. But joke aside from all that is happening and what reactions to the introduction of this law are thus justifying the introduction of these measures. For the past 8 years in Croatia, a policy has been conducted in which climate disorder, avoidance of responsibility and general indifference has obviously been created in someone's interest. Individuals avoided paying taxes, piled up debts, then shut down companies, and opened new ones, and then all over again. Some entrepreneurs and companies have accumulated millions of debts, and others have already been blocked and seized by tens of thousands of kunas. This created unfair competition. Entrepreneurs who regularly settle their obligations have been brought into an unequal position, many have also failed, the state has not charged its claims, and because of such irresponsible entrepreneurs who knowingly avoided their policy obligations, an ugly picture of entrepreneurs was created as the bad guys we could listen to yesterday. A large part of the claim went out of date and was never charged because of the fact that one’s items were held in the drawer, and others were already going into the procedure the next day and in this way many companies were destroyed and a large number of jobs were shut down. The situation has further deteriorated the economic crisis, but also the state which was also one of the inequitable generators since it has not carried out its own obligations. They were breaking laws, even from the state itself, and it was normal for no one to pay anyone anything. I will support this law although this law will not solve all the problems that we have in our financial operations in the country, but this law, as well as others that the new government will propose, shows a shift in politics, the introduction of order, creating responsibility and changing the awareness of all. Because we need to know that we have the right to ask the state to solve our problems, but that all of us must properly settle our obligations to the state and there must not be exceptions, but the rules must be the same for all. It should also be considered that both cities and municipalities are legally allowed to publish the list of debtors and to assist them in the collection of their claims. I reiterate that I support this law and that it is important here to stress that such laws allow for the introduction of order, accountability, equality and equal conditions for all regardless of who it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8279	Thank you. Next up for the debate by counsel Vanja Posavac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8280	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. If we depart from the fact that just in time payment of all obligations is important for the functioning of the rule of law, i.e. The protection of the legal order, the insurance of financial discipline and the active role of the state in promoting economic progress and social well-being of citizens are then clearly from that sentence that this law must go. It is necessary to ensure that all citizens participate in the timely settlement of their tax-based obligations in accordance with their economic opportunities and, of course, with a great deal of respect for the principle of equality and justice. Just in order for tax authorities to be effective and for citizens to have confidence, which I underline, in the rule of law, it must be possible to make public publication of the list of taxpayers who have the highest amount of tax debt based on value added tax, income tax, income tax and interest tax and contributions to compulsory insurance, but of course there are categories, this law makes it clear. The list includes those who exceed the amount of 50 thousand kuna for persons carrying out the activity, greater than 100 thousand kuna for legal persons and more than 10 thousand kuna for all other taxpayers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is the public publication of the data that is an instrument that seeks to encourage the financial discipline of taxpayers to meet their obligations in due time and I am convinced and I hope that this will happen within as soon as possible. We are aware that the public is very interested in providing insight into this data and in the work of the Tax Administration. The data will be published on the basis of clear and precise criteria prescribed by law. Financial discipline must be strengthened because citizens expect us to do so, and that has never been so far. The additions to Article 8 of this Act, paragraph 10, introduces something else that is very important, which says: "Consultually and honestly in accordance with the law." And this means that if a taxpayer delivers incorrect or incomplete information through means of public communication, it violates the law. And there's no dilemma. In addition, there have been problems arising from tax collection due to the outstanding obligations of a number of legal persons who are inactive or are subject to bankruptcy proceedings over a long period of time, and business has been transferred to other new companies with the aim of avoiding tax payments. I don't think there's any environment where we don't have cases of company creation, especially d.o.o. mainly with one member, cases where individuals and society have established a large number of new legal entities and have therefore formed a number of business chains. Unfortunately, at this point, it is a very broad possibility to create new societies without proof of the financial credibility of the founders, without checking the headquarters, without the means of insurance, and in fact it all ends on the back of the workers that it has already been about. They got away with it, in most cases, and it can't happen anymore. They're not workers, they're out of contributions, they're out of wages. And then we have a situation that the tax authority as a believer in the tax-debt relationship fails to collect or fail to fully collect the tax liability and in many cases it is clear to us why. Who else would trace it to, which firm, mother, daughter, father, son, etc. No one could ever figure that out again. As a result of the constitutional principle of freedom of entrepreneurship and the principle of prohibition of abuse of rights, the conclusion is that society must be used as a means of achieving the interests of its members, but must not be allowed to be abused to the detriment of the credentials and all others, and there must be order. The amendments and additions to the General Tax Code will therefore avoid cases of inability to carry out the collection carried out by the tax authority. The question of the liability of members of the company and of the tax persons associated and the related companies and controls are also being defined, assumptions shall be laid down for the determination of liability. So to conclude, order is being introduced, financial discipline is being introduced, and that is what citizens are looking for and expecting, and it has to be done because we are all responsible for them together. It also introduces assumptions of normal functioning of the rule of law which can then ensure economic conditions and social rights. This law doesn't have to, it has to, and I would even say it as urgently as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8281	Thank you. Next up for debate, Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the IRS, or the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. I absolutely support the adoption of such a regulation, but since this is the first reading I would like to say a few words about Article 8. In fact, Article 115 is amended in fact, and a provision is added to which the tax debtor who has obtained claims on the state budget also has recorded obligations, etc. I would suggest that it should be possible to highlight here if there are claims, not only from the state budget or whether it already implies the county budget itself, or the municipality's budget, because in practice it happens, and even from companies that are exclusively state-owned, or county-owned or majority-owned, are state-owned or county-owned, to some, especially when it comes to municipal companies. In particular, an entrepreneur or a craftsman, if he performs certain works for a utility to maintain the water supply and asks for such a large amount that exceeds his tax obligations, while neither the municipal company or municipalities or the county are able to pay off, might be fair, or directed to work it out because in this way I am not sure that we will achieve the real effect. Furthermore, if I had already taken the words, I would have said something about the fact that nowhere is the effectiveness of the work of the Tax Administration, or that part of the payment service, I think that with more intensive and more efficient work in a part of the taxpayer almost certainly and I am convinced that the percentage of the tax determined could be better. Furthermore, perhaps another suggestion for thinking that certain regulations should be considered, whether it would be directed to change because once, I worked in the Tax Service, so I know it, could not acquire real estate, could not be entered in the grant books until he had settled his tax obligations and perhaps there are other areas where acquiring certain property or rights could be conditional on that confirmation or belief that all taxes were paid. And I think it could all contribute to one better charge of all obligations, i.e. the tax and contribution obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8283	Thank you. Next for the debate, MPs Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since today is truly very exhaustive spoken throughout the morning, here it is during the afternoon about this very important law that finally gives the rule of law in this sphere rises to a higher level and where it means it gives the state the opportunity to introduce more order into a place where, as we see, according to the data we have ruled, the government at this point is a very big mess that goes directly to the damage of the state. But we need to be quite clear about going to harm actually the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because taxes are something of which the overall social infrastructure and public infrastructure live in one country. What I would only briefly talk about is, here is the gathering of the Croatian Employers' Association yesterday and their remarks that went between the lines and at the expense of just passing this law, where I think those who talked about it in a negative way and who spoke about this General Tax Law and part of the provisions that speak of publication, publishing tax debtors, public publication of taxpayers is something that is a pillar of shame for our entrepreneurs. So I would still interpret it a little differently, I think that with this measure being introduced by this law, it will allow all those honest and responsible entrepreneurs working in the Republic of Croatia, all of whom we all live, and we, as parliamentary advocates, get paid, separate from those who have been stealing from this country all along, who have cheated on this country by not paying their taxes, but not only that, but they have been unfair competition with these fair and responsible entrepreneurs and have created a riot on the free market. So to all responsible, honest entrepreneurs in this country, this particular measure would be to publicly publish those who, who have violated the laws, should be in favour, and these are the laws they should support. Yes, perhaps in countries that have a longer tradition of the free market, longer tradition and democracy than the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps like this, too much to deal with, perhaps even laws in detail on how tax debtors are going to be published, probably in most of these countries there is no such thing. Unfortunately, however, in our transition, what happened and the fact that this is one measure that may not remain part of the law in the long term until we, in all these good traditions of the free market and good traditions of democracy and good traditions of respect for the rule of law, change significantly. So here is the desire to take a stand for those entrepreneurs and transfer their opinion here to actually support them being raised that those who are not on any lists will be securely in a better position precisely based on this law in the future will work on the free market in the Republic of Croatia without unfair competition and without con men and thieves who will be labelled through this part of the law and will then be based on those labels whether through sanctions or in some other ways on the free market still come where they belong. In that sense, I personally support the adoption of this law, as well as the club of my party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8285	Thank you. Next up for debate, representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard today and we've been listening all day about the law being passed and I personally agree with it, but I'm afraid it's not the kind of thing that we have that solves the problem that we have. In fact, I read in the assessment of the situation and the issues that need to be resolved by such a law and the consequences that its implementation will cause, among other things, and that, in monitoring the application of the General Tax Code, problems arising from the collection of taxes resulting from outstanding obligations with those of a number of legal persons who are in debt over a long period of time because they are negative or because of the opening of a bankruptcy procedure and business as such transferred to other companies with a view to avoiding tax payments. We have found that, in terms of billable taxes, not settled taxes, about 51 billion kuna is wanted by all grounds and contributions from the state. Labourers made an effort to build a database of all entities in the Republic of Croatia on which a bankruptcy procedure was currently launched. There are more than 1300 and their fixed debt is 4 billion and 340 million kuna, of which 638 million kuna is settled, and the remaining non-financial assets of these companies amount to an additional 11.5 billion kuna. The demands of workers in these companies are 1 billion and 897 million kuna, and I am glad that in this public register, citizens whose individual debt amounts to more than 10 thousand kunas will be able to see how much tax is due to the state for the reasons that they have not been paid for months. It would be good to assess the productivity of the Tax Administrations may also see the data on which basis and how long the citizen has not paid the tax, to see how much time he has not received the salary and whether he has really knowingly cut the state budget for the amount of unpaid tax for some personal benefit and profit or for some other reason in this case for what he is asking for more for his work than he is obliged to do. In this way, we would have a larger and deeper database and a model in which the IRS could react faster and more promptically to those who consciously and systematically are doing everything that makes us today and we are discussing this and this law here in the Parliament. It was also found that there were problems like this among other things, and because many companies are founded on a daily basis, mostly those with limited responsibility, which we have, by the way, and potentiated between the other and the famous Quick.hr. In a number of cases, only one member was established to form a series of chains through which their business took place. Due to the current legislation, the possibility of establishing new companies without proof of the financial credibility of the founders without checking the seat without the means of insurance with the immediate opening of the account and entering the system of value added tax is very broad. We have detected the problem with this interpretation and the proposal to amend this law, but in this current bill, I do not see any new and different practice that we have decided to stop this problem in the end. The public register of taxpayers is good but he certainly doesn't solve this problem. It seems like he doesn't really intend to solve it. Why? In this proposal, the Government suggests that the following data of the debtor, the name and last name of the natural person or the name of the company would be visible from the list. Such companies are registered and run by the name of the firm and I ask the question, how will those entrepreneurs who read that list solely to see what legal entities on the market are dealing with and entering a business be able to obtain relevant information whether the company is in debt to the State or not? How will citizens who buy, for example, apartments from construction firms are able to know that they're doing business with a parent company if the owner of the company they're buying an apartment from registered a company with that they're only making a purchase contract a few days ago and that's why he's not on the taxpayer's register? The answer is no. Each firm has its founder's name and last name and therefore I propose to the legislator of this law and such a law that, by the name of the firm, the name and name of its founder, or owner, be necessarily indicated. Then we will only be able to say that this law makes sense because by it we want to punish those who systematically and planfully ignore their obligations just for their own benefit. The address of the seat of the legal person means nothing to us because such persons can register their company at 5, 6 or several different addresses depending on how much and where it suits them and then we cannot link them as one person or legal entity of the same owner. The name and last name of this law corresponds only to those who correspond to their entire assets, citizens and craftsmen and it is simply absurd. Those who are most responsible for the tax debt of 51 billion kuna correspond to the name or name of their company plus the minute d.o.o. shackled duck d.o.o. Raw materials benz d.o.o. smoke traffic d.o.o., red fog d.o.o. and so on. And the government does not solve this problem with this law, and we have to make it clear to all those who hope and look forward to seeing the light of day for the simple reason that they want to finally be a little safer with who and how they do business. According to the Government, this law will also achieve greater efficiency of tax authorities in the payment of debt. In previous discussions, we have heard that this year's effectiveness of tax authorities has nothing to say about the previous one, at least as far as statistics are concerned. The explanation which additionally burdens the current government and such a bill is that those entrepreneurs who have fulfilled their tax obligations within 8 days, and who are exempt from calculating the amount of interest, will not be found in such public announcements by the taxpayers of the tax administration. The question remains whether the tax authority, when paying them, asked those same entrepreneurs where they got the funds to settle the entire debt. Is the question to them why they didn't pay the debts when it's obvious they had the funds for it because they found them within eight days. Not only are they not on such a list but they are also reducing their debts by the amount of interest, and at the expense of this same budget that we want to fill as quickly as possible with this law today. As long as we're not all the same, as long as the problems are solved on the back of the small ones, as long as the bill's proposals don't solve the underlying cause of the problem, there won't be bread, it'll be obvious only games. And finally, just the question, who is responsible for that part of the outstanding tax claims of 51 billion kuna that will not be charged. Does this mean that the government is really prepared to end up being transparent and publishing and a list of names and last names of those who did not do their job the way they were supposed to, even though they received their incomes neatly every month. In fact, such a list would mean a great deal in waking up awareness of personal responsibilities both according to commitments both to the budget and to the state of what we are talking about today, that is, the problem that we want to address by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8287	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to this debate all day I had the feeling that we were actually in the second or third term in power, that my colleague Lalovac had already been one 9, 10 years as Deputy Finance Minister, that we should actually answer the questions that needed to be asked to someone else, and I am sorry that he did not have a colleague, Dalic, because it was not clear to me what was so funny today in the assembly and that there was no counterpart Salapic to warn her that it was not nice to laugh while someone was talking. This law is not directed against anyone but creates conditions for the functioning of the system, for the functioning of the state and its institutions. It is not a law against the Croatian Employers' Association, it is simply a law to put things in place. Everyone in the Republic of Croatia must pay taxes and we must all be in the same position. The publication of a public list of taxpayers should be called simply a public list of taxpayers, no pillar of shame, totem, or as all the names here today have been heard. You'll see the reasons, the sooner a colleague said, who could pay, who didn't and for what reason it was made. In this law, too, it is certainly not the goal of creating an anti-enterprise climate, though. And my colleague used to say the same thing about it. To every entrepreneur, a well-intentioned entrepreneur, which is a gro, a vast majority, someone talked about 70% and 90%, should be aimed at making the system work. And we have to take care of something else, when we get rid of those who don't pay taxes, who weren't loyal to competition, we also have to deal with black work because it's unfair competition. It's one part of the segment that needs to be done anyway. Young counterpart Hajdukovic had a bit of a heated discussion, young, intellectual, educated, and then someone said it was euphoria. I'd call it the cry of a young intellectual who wants to live in an orderly state who wants the system to work. What I think is also important in this part, which is this so-called. A breakthrough means that the tax debtor who has reached his claim on the state budget, while having recorded obligations on behalf of the tax debt, the amount of debt claims will be suspended for tax debt swaps and that is good, and that is what entrepreneurs have long sought. However, the government of Zoran Milanovic and the competent ministries will have another huge problem, which is the resolution of state-owned public enterprises. This may be a bigger problem than this because you have state-owned public enterprises that haven't paid their commitments to entrepreneurs since 2010. And that's something that's waiting for us. Any law that is passed, and which goes in order to settle the situation in the state, should be supported by this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8289	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8290	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The general tax law today was adopted in 2008 and entered into force on 1 January 2009 and regulates all relevant features of the tax-law relationship i.e. the rights and obligations of the participants in this respect i.e. tax authorities and taxpayers. In the meantime, he also experienced several changes. Regardless of the number of amendments and additions to this law, it is necessary to highlight the three important additions that are the actual newspapers of this legislative proposal: publication of the list of taxpayers, breach of the Institute of Personal Responsibility and the legal breakthrough of all debts and claims of the state budget. Although it appears that these are targetedly different supplements, these are regulatory policy measures and direct measures aimed at increasing the financial discipline of taxpayers, which is ultimately reflected in an effective but increased tax charge. By publishing the list of taxpayers, the Tax Administration will enable all to be known to those taxpayers who do not comply with their tax obligations with their business and thus do not participate in the settlement of public costs. The popularly named shame list is a good way to create financial discipline for several reasons. The Regulation on the inability to pay wages without payment of contributions also adopted earlier showed that a number of taxpayers still found the means to settle their debts in order not to be found on the list of bad employers who do not pay their workers contributions, and the same effect can be expected from a decision to publish taxpayers. Furthermore, according to the draft law, taxpayers who are actually working will not come to the list of taxpayers who have come into difficulties in carrying out their business because such taxpayers are looking for ways to resolve their problems, and they have already reached contractual relations with the IRS on how to settle their debt. He's got a few measurements. This is a measure of reprogramme, meal payments or postponement, and, of course, according to the proposal, the reason they are not on the list of taxpayers. Summing up on the list of taxpayers will also come taxpayers whose tax debt is obviously not a problem, and this is also the reason for them to be known to the general public. Furthermore, practice today shows that if you get into trouble, you start a new company and move on. The OIB introduced in full application also today reveals that there are a number of related companies, i.e. there are quite a number of persons who are founders of a company in a number of companies. Of course, sometimes the need to establish a larger number of society needs business. Today, however, life shows us that, in the largest number of cases behind this, a chain of related companies is transferred by persons who, by means of intentional actions, only through fictitious operations between their companies, are withdrawing money from the state budget by seeking VAT, transferring money between their related companies, and ultimately transferring that money to obtaining personal property or property from members of their family. Such behaviour is directly responsible for the damage done in the business of damaged companies, and it is perfectly normal for those illegally acquired assets to be held liable for the debts of the company. Such behaviour will try to establish in its business exactly the Tax Administration, so the logical sequence based on proven facts extends the ability to collect the debts of the company from the property of the person who has caused the existing situation. Finally, can we consider it normal for someone to demand the right of the state budget without considering it necessary to settle their debts to the same budget. If the same is not considered normal, then we must certainly welcome the copying and legislative measures which prevent payment from the budget, the regulation of a legal measure which makes it impossible to pay out of the budget without prior settlement of debts according to the same budget. And finally, all these tax collection measures, which is the legal and constitutional duty of all taxpayers. It was hard to believe that there was someone who could be against these proposals that introduced such a desired financial discipline. So today we all together support this proposal of a law with faith in creating legal conditions to increase financial discipline and the efficiency of tax collection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8291	Thank you. We're done with an individual discussion. Five minutes of debate on behalf of the clubs. The Croatian People's Party Club, representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, has registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8292	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Short on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club. Finally, for the draft law amending and supplementing the General Tax Law. If the state allows it to be owed how we can expect it and how citizens can trust a state that is not able to provide for themselves in the name of citizens what is public money, what is the money of citizens, and where we expect it to be the same state that we want and we want it to be arranged to protect all other creditors who work in the market and fight as workers or as entrepreneurs. If we had the General Tax Law, which is now in the proposal so far and of course it has been implemented, and we haven't, it wouldn't have happened to us, not to Dalmatia, not to the Adriatic. We wouldn't have had an absurdity that the state, the state-owned firm, owed to the workers what they paid for, which, of course, would not have happened to us that an entrepreneur could create debts, draw money the way it was done in the Adriatic. We are among the countries of the world economy, they are 59 which register as competing countries on the world market that are recognised. We are at the top or at the top of the bottom of 58th or 59th in competitiveness. One of these criteria of competitiveness is the functioning of what we are talking about today and tax collection and the orderly way of working tax and fiscal policy. The publication of debtors, the budgets of both state and regional and local self-government are public. It's public money and we discuss here and we have audits and it's open on the Internet and it's available to everyone. There is no reason why one who owes public money, whether it's citizens' money or in a state or private company, is not also published to know that he respects or does not respect it, and of course he has the right to say whether he is able or not or whether the state has caused the problem in which he is. Paying the state is also respect for the state in which they live, paying the state is not only an obligation, paying the state proud because the state with these funds can and will, as this coalition government manages and invests in development and for a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8293	Thank you. On behalf of the Proposer Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must tell you that I am very pleased with today's debate and I thank you, because I see that there is a consensus on this issue which is a burning issue of resolution, the issue of liquidity, the issue of insolvency, the consolidation of the economy. I see that there is one agreement and that you all know exactly what kind of challenge the Government of Zoran Milanovic faces in solving this difficult burning problem. I just don't know if you knew that one piece of information that I recently pulled from the FINA data that out of $43.4 billion not charged, means insolvency, that about 20 billion refers to those companies that don't have employees, and about 10 to 15 billion, means they don't have employees, they don't have any property. And then we actually found them doing the business of the trade. So all of this shows you what kind of mess we're meeting in the economy, so this mess that happened in our economy was generated by those who didn't hire, those who didn't invest their capital, and they pulled it out by those who do trade, so the activity that's actually in the Republic of Croatia we said that we're going to define ourselves for industry, for production, for the processing industry. And then we actually just analyzed the state of the economy, and we came to the conclusion that we need to be much more aggressive in that part, that the state must be proactive. Sit down and that someone will solve the problem for us, and this is the second step, as I say, in solving this difficult problem of the economy. What we want to say is that there will be clear rules for everything, that there are no equal ones, that there are no invitations, not this one, not that one, etc. It's mine or what, they're all equal now, they have to be, they have to be clear about the rules of the game and what we're trying to determine, so you can't do harm to others. You must not do harm to others and be called upon to be entrepreneurs. They're not entrepreneurs. I would also like to stress that in this battle we want to actually be given one consensus because this is also a long-term battle. Step three, this is how to say the second, the third will be the consolidation of the economy where you will soon face the Financial Business Act where when we get the entire one package of laws we can say that this year will be the years of difficult decisions, the year in which unpopular moves will have to be made, but the year we will set as a basis for knowing what we are starting with because we still do not know with this growing inequity. There will have to be cleaning, there will have to be clear rules and there will be no exceptions. I think if we set clear rules that our entrepreneurs, the ones we're actually talking about, that they're carrying this economy, that they're going to support this law and that actually those citizens who are actually paying taxes neatly, I'd like to talk more about them, not all the time about those who owe the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8295	Thank you, Deputy Minister. And this concludes the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8296	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law, first reading, P.Z. No.77 The debate is closed and I am voting on the basis of proposals from the working bodies: "The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the General Tax Law and all other objections, proposals and opinions will first be submitted to the proposal for the final draft of the law." Please, who's in? Against? Restraint? I also find that by a majority of votes 91 votes to, 17 against, 1 abstention this conclusion adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8297	The agreement of the Bureau of Parliament is that the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is discussed on Wednesday, and now we continue with the next point, that is - The final proposal of the Finality Act rests in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 89 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for action into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on European Integration. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you are, Deputy Minister Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Subject law is adopted in order to further comply with the EU acquis in a way that the rules on the finality of the settlement are applicable to payment systems, the Croatian system of large salaries is INC-S and systems for the settlement of financial instruments, etc. This law also applies to the so-called ‘SKDDA’. Interoperable systems related systems of several countries and, as a result of increasing practice of interconnecting to EU systems. Interoperable systems are not present at present on our market, but EU integration with related systems in the EU is possible. There is an increase in requests for cross-border integration of such systems in the EU. The law removes the risk in those systems which may arise in the event of opening insolvency proceedings against a particular participant of the system, for example. the bankruptcy because the finality of the intention implies that the transfer orders are valid and binding if they are accepted in the system prior to the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. In view of the exceptional importance of such systems for the economy, it is essential that an order under certain assumptions be irrevocable and impenetrable. This excludes legal risks exposed to payment systems, securities and other financial instruments in the event of opening proceedings that enable the refusal of legal actions taken in such a system. Since these systems form the financial backbone of the economic system, the rules finally prevent the spread of risks in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8299	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Here you are, Srdjan Gjurkovic, the Committee on Finance and Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Regarding both laws, the Committee on Budgets and Finance discussed, supported the unanimous adoption of both laws and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to vote on the laws we are harmonising with the EU acquis and to improve the financial system in co-operation with Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8301	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, MP Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. 'Cause it's a mess, I'm in a hurry. The Honorable Deputy Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues is before us the final proposal of the Finality Act to settle in payment systems and systems for the peace of financial instruments. It is also important to say that we are in line with the EU Regulation and Directives 2009/44, 98/26. and 2002/47. The aim of these Directives, and consequently this law, is to exclude legal risks exposed to payment systems and systems for the purpose of securities and other financial instruments in the event of opening proceedings that may result in legal action being refuted in those systems. The systemic risk that arises inevitably is the risk that, due to the disturbances in the system itself, or because of the inability of one or several participants who do not fulfil their obligations to start their own avalanche and the inability of other participants in the system or financial institutions to settle their obligations neatly. You know, colleagues and colleagues, that there are three payment systems in Croatia – the Croatian system of large payments under the control of the CNB, which is the owner and manager of the system, are the participants of the CNB banks and the Central Depositary Agency. Therefore, there is the NKS, the National Crisis System, so all the payment system via the FINA, the operational manager of that system and the owner of that system is the FINA, and the system of break-through and intent of the Central Bar Association under the control of the HANFA. All these systems are more or less well organized and there have been no major problems with their functioning. Problems could potentially arise from the recent entry into the European Union when certain foreign payment orders will become more frequent and resulting in certain risks. These risks relate above all to the execution of a payment order in the event of the opening of bankruptcy due to the non-availability of certain entities, and therefore the intention is to minimise them by this proposal. The provisions of this law ensure that all transfer orders entered into payment systems before the bankruptcy is opened are realised. In doing so, the finality of the intention of the individual transfer order means that the order is unconditionally and irrevocably implemented and that it is in no way possible to subsequently refute or cancel it. By doing so, we protect all participants in payment traffic, primarily creditors, of course or simply, by law, we will prevent the bankruptcy managers from eventually refusing to execute payment orders that entered the system before the time when the bankruptcy was opened, which is prescribed by the provisions of this law, namely in Article 47, so it begins on a specific date, hour and minute, by making the relevant decision of the court or of another competent authority. It is also important to point out colleagues and colleagues that the increasing expansion of payment traffic beyond the borders of certain countries, i.e. between non-EU entities, it creates an increased need for equalisation of the rules in the European Union countries. Therefore, in the interest of all, and based on the introduction of those Directives, national legislation builds on uniform rules and thus creates a basis to waste as little time as possible in payment traffic through interoperable systems and to achieve a higher level of security for all participants. Therefore, the SDP final club will support these, the adoption of this law as we prepare for the recent co-existence within and the financial system of the European Union, speed up payment system and create assumptions for the construction of interoperable payment system with other Member States of the European Union, raise transparency of the payment system and prevent possible abuse of bankruptcy managers by preventing the penetration of the transfer orders or even the timely opening of bankruptcy at the time of the execution of individual transfer orders, unfortunately there have been such cases in our history. With one word, we minimise the risks and protect all participants in the system that because of the slow or potential disputed transmissions are damaged by the failure to execute their payment order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8303	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8304	Final proposal of the Finality Act intentions in payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 89. The debate is closed and I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that most votes are 91 votes for, 17 against, 1 abstentions to the Finality and Purpose Act in payment systems and systems for the purpose of financial instruments in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8305	We move to the next item - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Insurance Act, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 88. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal for acts in boxes and in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Deputy Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The case law is adopted in order to further comply with the acquis of the European Union, Directive 2009/44/EC amending and supplementing the Directive on the finality of intentions and the Financial Insurance Agreements, in such a way as to extend the cycle of available financial insurance instruments, financial instruments and money by introducing a credit claim as a new financial security instrument between the participants listed in the law. These are the Republic of Croatia, the CNB, the HBOR, credit or financial institutions, financial market entities, and other entities, and the conditions under which it can be given and the credit claim in which the debtor is the consumer is excluded. Another newspaper in the amendment of the Financial Insurance Act is no longer based on the balance sheet but the cash must be reported in a certain amount corresponding to the financial obligation provided for by the Financial Insurance Contract. The amendments also define financial market entities in the Republic of Croatia to which this law applies. This law prescribes new rules for the insurance of financial liabilities to credit claims under existing rules further increases legal certainty, reduces credit risk, facilitates cross-border transactions and strengthens the capital market and the financial system as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8307	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8308	Dear Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We live in a dynamic time, the risks in business are increasing and are just increasing the risks on the one hand, and on the other hand, the desire to reconcile mutual credit obligations as quickly and easily as possible with as little additional money as possible, the reason for creating new additional insurance instruments in credit business. Thus, the European Union, whose full member of Croatia will become, in a year's time, a directive 2009/44 introduced another instrument, a credit claim, along with existing credit insurance instruments. By harmonising our current Financial Business Act with this Directive and Croatian creditors, it will be possible in case they fail to settle their contractual obligation on a regular basis, in which case they use their credit claim as one of the instruments of insurance in credit operations. What exactly is a credit claim? This claim was made under a loan or loan agreement in which the lender is a credit institution or a loan credit institution, so the bank, the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Investment Society, the Insurance and Reinsurance Company, the Investment and Pension Funds, the Central clearing depositary company, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, peace and clearing organisations. The number of creditors, and we see that it is in order that large and respectable state systems except for the nature of the business banks will be able to settle their debts in international credit operations to grant their claims to their debtors. So their debtor practically becomes their guarantee to the believer. However, it is important to stress that credit claims can only become a credit insurance instrument if two conditions are met. The first condition better to say the limit is that the financial security instrument cannot be the credit claim in which the consumer's debtor is defined as such under the law governing consumer lending. Simplifiedly, the claims of business banks on consumer loans to citizens cannot be a financial security instrument in credit business. The second condition is that the debtor in the credit claim contract granted by the Financial Insurance Instrument must give his consent to serve his credit debt as a guarantee. Without the consent of the debtor, the believer cannot offer his credit claim as an insurance instrument to his believer. At the same time, by granting that consent, the debtor undertakes, in a special statement, not to beat his or her potential claims against the creditor from that credit claim throughout the period while the claim in question is used as a financial collateral instrument. Therefore, the debt must remain unchanged at all times because this is a condition for the unchanged to remain and the credit claim of the creditors as an instrument of insurance. A clear definition of the use of credit claim as a financial security instrument should also be given to all other conditions under which these instruments are granted in order to avoid jeopardising the position of the recipient but also to avoid jeopardising the position of debtors by credit claim. This legislative proposal therefore provides us with another instrument of financial security for the settlement of the commitments made without the use of the money, which is extremely important in these conditions of universal indifference. However, I think it is far more important that the level of security is increased and the systemic risk is reduced, especially in cross-border financial business where the EU insists, and the SDP club supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8309	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This is what we'd end today. Tomorrow we will continue with the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-17-0.u8310	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 88. The debate is closed, and I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes are 91 votes for, 17 against and 1 abstentions to the Law amending and supplementing the Financial Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
