ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13797	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for giving me your word. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club yesterday we discussed a very important economic law here all day. However, also yesterday, the State Statistics Institute published one bad data for Croatia, which is that the decline of gross domestic product in the second quarter is 2.2%. Neither the first Deputy Prime Minister nor the Minister of Economy and Small Entrepreneurship Mr Maras spoke a word yesterday. Last night at the Finance Minister's Log, he's still talking like there's gonna be a miracle in the last three months that there won't be a drop in gross domestic product. So, one complete escape from the problem of this government and therefore in accordance with Article 223 and I think it's a new Rules of Procedure article I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13798	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament and the HDSSB Club are also looking for a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13799	Representative Dragovan. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. What? Let's see more over there, come on, Lesar. Please, you have to get up and say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13800	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13801	Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13802	Same, same, same. I don't know why, why do I need it, but come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13803	Okay. Anyone else? I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Here's the break time's up. I call upon the representative of the HDZ club Mrs. Martin Dalic to take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13805	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. So here's how we saw the State Statistics Institute released yesterday and more extensive data on GDP developments in the second quarter, and they are unfortunately worse than what has already been announced. In the second quarter of GDP, 2.2% fell, which means the standard of living has dropped, business opportunities have been reduced. And that, those 2.2%, is the fastest drop in economic activity since the first quarter of 2010. What's wrong with all of this is that the personal consumption that suggests to all of us that our citizens are living has dropped even more, 3.4%. The fastest since the second quarter of 2010. All those signs of recovery of economic activity, recovery of personal consumption have been erased. All those incentives to the economy, to the citizens who came, for example. These were deleted from the suspension of the crisis tax. And they were deleted because economic policy over the past half of the year has been based on an increase in taxes, on the introduction of new taxes, on price increases. The results here are clearly visible. What's even worse, and we talked about it in yesterday's and yesterday's debates that all the signs announce that this will continue. The third quarter is already behind us and we can figure out what happened and what happened today. And it was that in the 7th month, personal consumption continued to decline from 6th, citizens bought less because of the purchases and bought less due to the increased taxes, spent less. The excise duties on oil derivatives are less than last year, that's a realistic indicator. The amount of times the price. Smaller quantities were bought because taxes are higher because prices are higher. I therefore want to ask from this place on behalf of HDZ and on behalf of all Croatian citizens that such a harmful economic policy will change because it only leads to the further sinking of the Croatian economy. There's no indiscretion in the House, no jumps are obviously helping this. This is a very real problem and a very real issue to be addressed with the greatest attention, the greatest attention and to take advantage of all the best that Croatia has to stop. Because today, we also see workers of the Gredell strike yesterday because Gredell goes into bankruptcy. However, we also see that the government has found the strength to help a private-owned company, we welcome that and it is good and it should, but then the government must also find strength and find a solution to the problems of Gredelj. Because jobs are extremely easy to erase, destroy and send people to the Stock Exchange, but as we can see, it's not easy to create them. And that's why when Minister Linic announces 20,000 layoffs in public service last night, mathematics is very simple by definition of budget savings. But that also means 20 thousand families without pay, without income that have nothing to pay back their loans from, buying books, schooling their children. Because the government reiterates that the Croatian credit rating has been stabilised. That's right, that's good. But all Croatian citizens must also have this, so the fact that the credit rating is stabilised is then probably the best sign that it is necessary to stop with further tax hikes, further price increases and focus on measures that will bring the economy back to life. So I repeat and ask again on behalf of HDZ, on behalf of the entire Croatian public who cannot speak here to stop the tax hike, to give up the announced introduction of the property tax, to give up measures that represent a further burden on the economy as they will, for example. to be the law that comes to us here on fiscalization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13806	Thank you, too. Let's hear what the HDSSB has to say. Who's going to speak for the HDSSB? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13807	Mr. Vice President, here's what the HDSSB has to tell you. The HDSSB has to tell you that at this moment Croatian citizens are really in one situation that for an increasing number of citizens is approaching the limit of intolerance and financial, simply most people in this country can no longer survive at this time. Faced with food collection, VAT growth, energy prices rise, the constant rise in petrol prices by most Croatian citizens from month to month and now that they will come autumn they will simply not be able to keep their nose above the surface of the water but most citizens will start to sink underwater. The basic problem, one of the biggest families that young families face today, is that they don't have jobs and we all know that. It's a young generation. The middle one faces the loss of those jobs she's had so far, pensioners with as much of their pensions as they can afford to settle basic living costs and survive. The current has grown we know 20 percent, the gas has increased 30%, but with the new tariff system introduced, the gas bills will be 50 percent higher. Regardless of the fact that the Republic of Croatia meets 75% of its domestic gas needs. Therefore, it is not dependent on Russian gas and cannot dictate the price of the gas paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's a constant hoax that's placed on the citizens. A recent proposal to collect heating in cities by 37%, 36.37%, and of course the mayors who are now giving consent will not give consent to such a thing. And of course the Mayor of Osijek will not give consent as long as he can to increase the price of heating for the citizens of the city of Osijek because it is responsible for the life and existence of these citizens, not for the balance and way of functioning of HEP heat. And it is not irresponsible to the common interests but very irresponsible and it is very irresponsible to shift your inability to function to the burden of citizens. So there's no more saving. It has been mentioned several times from various opposition parties that there was no VAT growth in Plan 21, there was no proposal for a statistical division into two regions, which we are now meeting and there was no plan to reduce salaries and reduce the rights of workers acquired. This government is more concerned with closing down than with opening up a company. What's the point of what citizens expect of us? Yes, our citizens do not expect us to deal systematically with ourselves, but to deal with their existential problems. And that's what most people hold back. And that's why this break is justified. And that in our work as a Croatian Parliament we should focus on the existential problems of the people who chose us here, not on our own. Or if we're going to deal with ourselves, we don't have to do it here in the assembly, and the existential problems of people aren't what we talk about most often, or whether we're offended by this or whether it's something really hitting us or not. But the existential problem of people is today a good part of people whether they will succeed in sending their children to elementary and high school, whether they will succeed. Now the problem was whether we'd be able to buy a new bag when they went to school and many couldn't buy it. Whether they will be able to pay for these directors or they will be executed within a very short period of time within a month. If the accounts are delayed, they have arrived regularly before the citizens. They're not citizens for bills among those taxpayers among those 45 billion kunas. So we call on the government to go And that we as a Parliament work in the interest of citizens. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13808	Yes, yes, citizens are certainly interested in the Health Development Strategy, but they have to listen directly to the views of clubs on a completely different topic that is not on the agenda. On behalf of the SDP club Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we at the SDP club are also concerned about the situation of both our economic and social citizens but as a party leading the coalition government at the moment we also understand our responsibility to share problems or to look for solutions and to take care of those who are most vulnerable in Croatia today. So such a social policy that will actually try to help those who are most vulnerable. But I'd like to address my colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ Club now with a few sentences. You would have been convincing in your concern if you hadn't been in power for 8 years, if you hadn't worked in those 8 years, so there were neither adequate measures nor incentives in either economic or social terms in Croatia, that money was being drawn from both the economic sphere and from companies, citizens were being exhausted, and a good part of these funds ended up in private pockets. So that you were making sure at the time of the crisis that started in 2008 that you proposed and implemented adequate anti-recession measures today we would not be in this situation. And what did it look like then? It did not respond in time, the budgetary policy was conducted as if in the boom of the economy, the high deficits were financed by expensive loans that come today, we had an explosion of liquidity, we were tolerated that no one was paying anyone, 200 thousand jobs were lost and were working fictitiously in some companies where after two years there were no salaries, or paid contributions and a few months or net wages. So then you'd be convinced that you were leading a policy that wouldn't lead to this kind of situation. And what is this coalition government doing today? He's trying to clean up what's making a mess in the country both economically and socially and in any other sense. The thing is, we have to come up with clean bills, we have maximum savings in the state sector, and we have to propose such measures and laws that will increase economic growth and that will be fair in social terms to those who are most vulnerable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13810	Thank you, too. The HNS Club's position will bring Jozo Radoš closer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13811	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So that's what we heard last night, and the thing isn't from last night. It's a matter of many years ago, so it's a bit of a surprise that when there are ministers and Prime Ministers here, there are no questions about the economy. Now that we have an important topic of health reform, or health development strategy, we are now speaking of a sudden concern for the economy. I'll just remind you of the state of the Croatian economy whenever this government took responsibility at the beginning of this year. So the government debt was 46 billion euros, the budget deficit was 15 billion kuna, 4.3% of gross social product, worker and pensioner ratio 1.2-1, export coverage 60%, pension and salary ratio 40:40%, internal debt indifference around 30 billion kuna, the corruption perception index was worse than in recent years. The competitiveness index didn't grow, the employment index was 50%, and now it's expected that all this data that are absolutely exact are being solved overnight, and now we're wondering why in the negative economic environment the decline in gross social product is 2.2%, as if all this data we're talking about didn't refer to. The government has already increased the credit and guarantee programmes in the economy, the promotion of exports by 333%, and this trend towards the long-term budget projection continues in 2013 and 2014 with a number of measures announced by the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds. Therefore, there are prospects for economic development and in such a negative situation, such a difficult legacy and in such a negative environment in which we are located. What the state can do in this period is try, since we haven't, we haven't created, over the past years we haven't created an environment suitable for investing that would lead to GDP growth, to start those investments that are in its jurisdiction, which are primarily investments in energy that are being prepared and that will start at the end of this year. That's what the government can do. And of course, the Law on the Encouragement of Investments which has been at the debate these days in the Croatian Parliament with a number of other measures already taken will hopefully contribute to the growth of GDP in such negative circumstances. When it comes to electricity, gas, heating, you should know that these companies, first of all HEP, have accumulated losses. And as far as the solution was concerned, the only solution could be that these debts would continue to accumulate and then, of course, be settled from the budget. It's a policy you've been leading, such a policy is unsustainable because if these debts are to be settled, the budget will be resolved, then social policy will be at stake, the health policy we're talking about here today. So that path you've been going, pushing your head into the sand, piling up debt not only in that company, but we're talking about this company, here at the most, then it's a policy that doesn't have a positive outcome. Therefore, on the basis of all this we have talked about and regardless of the negative heritage and regardless of the bad circumstances of the economy not only in Croatia but in the whole environment, with the measures of the Government that have been taken and, in particular, the basis of the Investment Encouragement Act, we expect that this negative trend that you have prepared will be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13812	Who will speak for the Croatian Labourists? Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13813	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In this year, we entered the macroeconomic projection of the government that was delivered to us with the state budget when GDP growth was projected 0.8%, personal consumption decline 0.3, state 2.4, export growth by 1.1 and imports by 1.5%. On April 18th, on the current morning, when data showed that these macroeconomic projections would not be from the state, I asked the prime minister when the government would announce a new macroeconomic projection. He told me there was no answer to my question. In July of 2013-2015, the Economic and Fiscal Policy Guidelines document The government urinates projections, but for 2012 and for the first time recognises GDP 0, the decline in personal consumption no more than 0.3 but 0.6, the state remains in decline 2.4, exports instead of growth of 1.1 declines of 0.8 and imports instead of growth of 1.5, 1.2%. So only in July is the new macroeconomic projection. At the same time, data are known today that the decline in consumption in both July and June was 5.1%, that GDP decline is now officially 2.2%, the decline in production is 2.5%, that 67% of employees receive wages below the average salary, and with inflation 4.1% is not 4.1%, but around 10%, we always forget that the share of employees in the distribution of GDP from 51.8 fell to 47%, while claiming that they did not increase their tax obligations to employers and where that part of GDP ended. 231,000 citizens have blocked accounts worth 15.3 billion kuna. State finances are stabilizing, citizens' finances are destabilised. The obsession with cutting the fiscal deficit and saving at all costs has resulted in the situation that we have destabilised citizens' finances at all costs, not asking for criteria or criteria. Whether the job of the government, whether executive or legislative, is that the cost of paying the transition from this crisis is not discussed but that we justify ourselves having to, and the victims are the least, whose incomes are uncertain and depend not on its work and contribution but on the moment of the mood of those who decide their fate. Citizens are being kicked out of apartments that are in charge of buying housing along with state incentives and last jobs in strategically important activities such as "Gredelj" fail and are being destroyed and the government claims it can't do anything and so every week. So if the government can do anything at the recommendation of the International Labour Organisation and ours, you need to intervene urgently by increasing the minimum wage and reaching the level that we have now set out for ourselves 40% of the average salary. Without that intervention, the number of citizens in the blockade will not be 231 000 but more than 300 thousand. If this is not the topic of debate in Parliament, but only the subject of state finances and the state budget, then obviously we do not understand ourselves in the sense of politics and tasks of the authorities. There's no more time for big and nice speeches, but the citizens' answer is what we're going to do to save their finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13814	Now we'll hear the views of the club IDS and Damir Caine, and we'll be able to devote ourselves to the final agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13815	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Clearly, life doesn't start with this government and we'll probably agree with that fact. Problems don't begin with this government either. I agree with what they say at the HDZ Club that statistics are inexorable. I agree, she's exact, I don't want to argue with anyone but that good is not good. What is the picture of the Croatian economy in 2012. The rate of GDP decline in the second quarter - 2.2%, inflation 4%, the number of unemployed in July 298690 or 17.5%. Average salary 3.8% lower than in June 2011, decline in industrial production in July by 5.5%, drop in construction works in July by -7.9%, drop in trade to little 5.1%, import of goods in the first I don't know how many 7 months 9.5 billion or 0.2 less compared to the same period, our exports are lower by 1.9%, etc. etc., public debt 170 billion kuna, external debt 46.5 billion kuna. That's pretty much it. Euro pardon, to euro 46.5. That good is not good, that may be and may be worse. It's easy to be. If from school, 9000 people go home from science, and from health care, 6,000 people we might talk about later, 2500 from the police will be terribly difficult. Linic spoke openly yesterday about how public sector needs 20,000 people home. If the collapse of these economic giants continues, a la Puris for which this government did not eat or smell onion. She was stolen from Puris, I don't know Wolfe, etc. If the trend continues, let's say the closures of Solaris in Novigrad, Zagreb, Gredelja, thank God that Dioki was saved. At least that's what I want to believe it can really be devastating for all of us. Fighting for each job must be a contitio son qua non of every policy. I don't think anyone in this country expected a change in trends within six months. Come on, it's been 11 months, but not in a year, but the odds are also complicated. With the tax press our budget is properly charged, it's for every praise. But sometimes you should let it go, I say weed grow a little, not just cut it because then we won't have anything to bring home. The weeds should be clearly cut. I'm afraid the same way it's going to be with this small sector. The purchasing power is falling drastically. The announcement of new taxes can make these opportunities worse. Whether the bankruptcy law will resolve insolvency or increase unemployment. I agree that in 11 months, the government couldn't reverse those trends, but I also agree with what some say people are panicking. It's winter, you need to get the heat, you need to buy the books. One set of books for a child who goes to 7th grade is 1500 kuna, for two of them it takes 3000 kuna. You need to help people and that little economy. And everyone who thinks Europe will help us, someone outside Croatia, is wrong too. I think we'll have to take care of it ourselves. I'm afraid the gross social product will fall in the third month. Tourism is something better than it was last year, but our agriculture for the sake of drought has fallen into huge problems. Croatia is centralised. It should be fair to say that Croatia is still there by 2000 and I would say by 2011. Systemically robbed, devastated by conversion. I agree she's also bureaucratized. Trends are what they are. The environment is exactly the same, I was two days ago in Padua, so I see how it is in Italy. It is not easy, easy, although everyone in Croatia would like to change with them simply. The uncertainty is great. The finance minister says 2013 will be an even more difficult year. Local elections are coming. Let's not overly politicize. We need to help every little subject that can survive. Shutting down the company is relatively easy. Punishing entrepreneurs or I don't know who's easy. Running, creating something new is far harder What's been five minutes? [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] But it doesn't shine. [[Intruder Stazić: Yes.]] Nothing at all...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u13816	No, no, thank you very much, very much, Agent Cain. Here we have spent 50 minutes of time scheduled for the agenda that we adopted ourselves. We are now finally moving to a debate on the National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we begin work. We'll discuss 7. Proposal for a National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020 The National Strategy is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative wish to further explain the proposal... We are now finally moving to a debate on the National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020. I believe a subject of great interest to the citizens of this country. I call on Professor Rajko Ostojic, Minister of Health to bring us into the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14799	Excuse me, Minister. Just one announcement. So we have this topic for now 5 clubs and 10 advocates for an individual debate. At 12:00, we'll vote, we'll interrupt the debate, and then we'll continue the debate after the vote. Thank you. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14800	Thank you very much. So, respected colleagues, respected colleagues before you is the National Strategy for the Development of Croatian Health, Croatian Health System 2012/20. It's a state-of-the-art analysis. As you know, the health system is probably one of the most complicated systems around the world that has been created in the following way in accordance with democratic senses. So, the Co-ordination Committee is immediately in January, and when we found that there was no written document for the Strategy in the next four-year or basic period, the work on the National Strategy Proposal began. Five committees have been organised for the organisation of systems, for human resources, for the third one for the field of health care, for the financing of the system and for legal issues, and I thank everyone because in these coordination committees and commissions there are representatives of all health professions. So they are 5 key doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses and technicians and midwives. Of course everyone else, but five key ones. Because the creation of a strategy ahead of you and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia participates, I stress all the chambers of Croatia – I will only list some, medical chamber, Croatian chamber of nurses. So, all the chambers. Third, all the professional societies participated. See Impressum of Croatia, Croatian Medical Assembly, HUMS – Croatian Association of Medical Sisters, Croatian Association of Medical Technicians, for example in the Emergency Medical Service. Fourthly, in a democratic debate, the proposal, I stress in the proposal before the public debate were attended by representatives of all unions, there are 17 of them, so all unions are invited, asked to do a strategy, doing something my colleagues said was supranational, superpolitical. We're doing a strategy. So we invited them and the unions. Academy of Medical Sciences, but I am glad that the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, therefore the temple of Croatian science, also participated in the creation of a strategy. When we prepared this document, then we publicly presented it on June 28th in Grožnjan. We combed him in public for two days, answered his questions, talked, and thus opened a public debate. The same day the document was on the web page, on the website www.hello.hr and sent a letter to everyone to be shown in PDF, of course, to be obvious. So, not in the power point of the presentation, to look at it, and there was an open public debate where we got a whole series of proposals, thinking, thinking, improving, stressing improvements. So that's how democracy is done, in democratic moods, and that's how consensus works. Consensus is not working, and health care is such as a strategy to show and end the story rather than all the key actors call and do it. At the end of July, we completed a public debate. A whole series of proposals have been implemented and you have seen a final version that differs significantly from the one that was presented the other day, conditionally presented because it is three months old. Not only that, but in early July I personally with my own hand, so not by computer, but by my own hand I asked all the presidents, and here I see some, all the presidents of parliamentary and non-parliamentary parties, that their health committees participate in the working debate. So, for example, there is no gentleman from the HSS, but I wrote with my hand the esteemed Mr. Hrg and then of course there is some computer record we ask you to participate in the public debate of your Health Alliance and sign yourself personally with respect Rajko Ostojić etc. So he personally arranged it. Well, that's democracy. Both the HSS and the laborers and those in position and opposition. I must be honest that I'm surprised that many of them who have accepted, improved and sent their memo at this time in opposition. So I thank all those who participated. When we finished all this, since it was health care, health strategy came to the government of the Republic of Croatia, it passed all normal parameters, all normal procedure, and it is in front of you in the final version. Three basics and key things of each strategy are mission, vision and value. And it's very detailedly described to you. Because the strategy is a framework, a roof document that speaks of these three things – the mission, why we exist, the vision – where we want to go and the values – which are the key values in this system in health or any other system. It's very clearly written. I am particularly proud of the swat analysis, meaning the swat analysis or Croatian SSPP – strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats that are not written in principle but which are very detailed and this I ask you to look at from the page. In 278, very detailedly each of these forces, weaknesses, opportunity or threats is listed by the original, that and that chapter, meaning that we think that our strength or threat is being directed by the reader, this moment of your Mrss. Assembly MPs and the gentlemen of Parliament's representatives to make it easy for you and to suggest to us, and you could have in the public debate, unfortunately it was summer so some of them didn't manifest themselves or have not read, that now in the debate you should call on the source that and that, the chapter, the diagram and that. So a very good analysis of strategic problems. Five key strategic problems and, of course, on that basis, we have also given five solutions that have arisen from a clear, key public debate. And it's all in front of you. What is the key to the mission, the vision we know is our values, and these are the people employed in the Croatian health system. They wore Croatian medicine 50, 90, 30 years ago, wearing it now and the key strategy is on them. It means people. You can make a beautiful building, a beautiful temple full of marbles and stones, but if you don't have people, and we've given an emphasis on people, absolutely none of the strategy. Or to make it simple. Croatian medicine is excellent thanks to excellent nurses, excellent doctors, but the key problem of Croatian healthcare is fragmentation. The key problem of Croatian health care is the system of feuds. It's like we're in feudalism, not capitalism, no matter what kind of capitalism we were. It's like we're in the 8th century or the 5th century, not that we're in the 21st century because it's a feed system. There's no horizontal connection, but there's no vertical connection. And that's the key to the problem. And we give tools, and I expect from you support that you will also give us control tools by connecting this very complex system both horizontally and vertically. There are a whole range of solutions, strategic development directions, priorities and measures. And I stress, this is a roof document. On October 12th, on Palitative Care Day, we will give you the Palitative Care Action Plan. By the end of the year, the Master Hospital Action Plan means a plan for the development of the hospital system and a third Investment Action Plan for Human Resources. This is a roof document. Action plans come out of it, of course, with what, with everything that has an action plan, and that carries the goal, the holder of the action plan, the deadlines, the financial resources, etc. This is an action plan. Or to compare that two, three days ago, there was a problem with strategies, so let's not go back to the past. I don't call on any pessimism without speaking to memory politics, but so far it's only been two national strategies called the same National Health Development Strategy 2006-2011. And this one before you National Health Strategy 2012-2020. A few days ago, there was a comparison on the number of pages of strategies, etc. And that's not good, let's say it's not good, but I'm calling you if there are MPs who were in the previous term not good, but the echo, the factor of one and another times a hundred. Here's a dozen tables 10, I think nine pictures and here's 300 and something. Here are 66 pages, 33 to Croatian, 33 to English, and here are 400 pages. So let's finish this story and, of course, don't refer to a three-month-old document but to a three-day-old document. Deja vu or deja, I'm not an Frankophone deja vu, I've seen it before. Why? Because I'm going to have to apologize to you because I'm going to have to talk to the representatives of the international monetary fund who are at my office at 10 o'clock. 12 years ago, I was deputy health ministers, and we also talked to the international monetary fund for the first few months. Why? Did we inherit as well as in '99? GDP decline is the recession of the GDP decline in Croatia's export brand, '99. was minus 0.9. Four years later, it was five GDP growth. GDP growth of 5 means 10 billion newly created kunas, at least 10, and that'll be 4 years from now. ... when we create newly created kunas to succeed in doing not only what it says in strategy and action plans but also in everything else. So you've already seen it. Action plans like I said three will be done by the end of the year and therefore your respected colleagues and colleagues please allow me to go to the Ministry of Health for half an hour. There will be my assistant, Mrs Djukanovic, who will, of course, inform me of everything you discussed and improved this... Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14801	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We've got a few replicas on this opening exhibit of yours. It's too late to report for replica. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Jandrovkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry the minister is going to leave. Yesterday it happened to us that the first vice president left, and I don't think that's good because it's about the important documents, and I think the ministers should be here. But I agree with you. You said every strategy is based on people, I agree that we have excellent people in health care, excellent doctors, nurses. However, I have not heard that you spoke about the employment and layoff strategy in the health sector as much as yesterday Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Linic very coldly announced the dismissal of 20,000 people in the state and public sector. I wonder, Mr. Minister, do you have any idea how many people in the health sector are going to be fired by the Prime Minister or Vice President Linic? How many people will leave the health care sector in 2013? I was really caught yesterday. I believe that what Vice President Linic said has come to your attention, and I ask you to tell people specifically to MPs, citizens of the Republic of Croatia what people in health are expecting and how many people in health care will be fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14803	The Minister of Health will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14804	Of course I didn't find it because it's a wide picture. Spread the image. We've cut our contributions to lower the labour price. That's what I signed. And I don't want any more bismarks or beverics than your top economists know about the acronym pearl combination of Bismarck and Beveric. I don't doubt your economics would know that. So no more Bismarck or Beveric has a new acronym... yet we reduced the contributions for a reason. And as far as health care professionals are concerned, there will be more at the end of our term and there will be more great nurses and excellent doctors because they carry Croatian health care. And in the process of negotiations and talks there are a number of variants one of them has probably heard about this term spinoff not health care professionals who work in the health care system. So your economic experts that's different from outsourcing. Therefore, it all says in the Health Strategy, Mr. Honored Parliamentary Representative, and that is exactly what the objective is and will be more health care professionals at the end of not only this term but at the end of 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14805	Second replica representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this strategy is a national strategy like you too ambitious and I don't know what it's like to call a national strategy for health or health development, it might be better health. Much more was expected, and I have no doubt of your good intentions, and I have no doubt that you have had a broad discussion, I'm sure it's done. However, what I saw and what I was interested in in this national strategy is urgent medical assistance as I come from a region where it is the biggest problem in terms of coastal islands and Dalmatian Zagora, so there is only one page of 293 mentioning something about emergency medical assistance, and you said in your presentation that one strategy must have a mission, and a vision and value, so let the mission of emergency medical assistance from Vrlika to Vis, Solta, Imotski, Zagvozda, Lovreća be an emergency medical assistance vision, be your best service and the value be your highest health rate. Of course not to the previous government, so you probably won't be able to fix the health situation if we have as little cost as possible the best service that would be good for everyone. And yesterday I also mentioned to you, and I told you, and I'm telling you right now, you said that there might be more employees at the end of everything, but that's what's going to happen to you first at the Ministry of Health. By entering the European Union, the vast majority of highly educated people, our doctors, will go to the territory of the European Union, or where they are paid better, as you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14807	Replication response, Minister Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14808	Thank you very much, Mr. Babic. Yeah, you're right, you gave... too ambitious. I'd say optimal. So you have to have a goal, so the vision answers the question as you yourself said where we want to go. We have a clear goal, we have clear parameters to get to the finish line, so I would say optimal. It's called that you're right, the National Health Development Strategy, not health because it's a difference, a significant difference. Health is, you know, health itself, so we changed the name of the ministry to the Ministry of Health because it was either an option or a change of thousands and hundreds of tables of health homes in health homes or we changed only one to the Ministry of Health because we had to change. The Ministry of Health and Social Care shared logically, which you said throughout your mandates, in two parameters. Therefore, the total cost of rebuilding the former Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to the current Ministry of Health amounted to an incomplete thousand kuna. There's been a change in several records, that sign down there when you go in and say where the Health Department is, the entrance to the building, cost only a thousand kuna. And I'm proud of it, and it's a language problem which, of course, was very clear to you, and don't politicize it because we finished that story. Emergency medical attention, counterpart Babic, great thing that 28.12. was the first session of the new Croatian government and as you know it is always ceremonial, is always common. If I hadn't put the second point and the last point, the motion to reorganize emergency medical care would have been a mess today, and that's preparation. So we prepared ourselves, the second point was emergency medical attention and so today is emergency medical attention, and you saw unfortunately during the summer months time is not 60 minutes until arrival but not full 42 minutes. Thank you very much, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14809	The next replica, representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14810	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, you said the mission strategy was a vision of value. The mission set out already by the Hypocrates vision is values on that line, from Hippocrates and other good people, great people gave vision and values in health care. It's not a strategy. The strategy is to tell the Croatian public what kind of health care we want for the next 8 years, whether we want to change it to some extent for the better, how we will do it and how much it costs and who will pay for it. What's in this strategy is just a bunch of data that was done by a medium-sized expert with the help of a computer, processed by a high-experienced device, modeled and dictated, and perhaps by you several pages, in general, which practically mean nothing. So, if the split is a synonym for information, I have to tell you, Mr. Minister, because it's not a strategy because when I came to the director in Split, then I inherited the failed information that Minister Vlahusic wanted and called some kind of contest, so Ostojić, not Ostojić, but the one from Vinodravska, so he called the tender that failed. So Milinovic seemed to be trying to do that information or talking, and it wasn't. It's like you say instead of a hand-to-hand vote in the House, we'll switch to information. It's not a strategy in Parliament, it's a technical improvement without which you can't. You can't normally the only institution in Split more than 3600 people run it without good information. It's not a strategy, so neither is it connecting, it's something that brings life. Thank you very much. There's a lot in the replica, and there's more to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14811	The one from Vinogradska, I assume, is Minister Ljubicic Answer, Minister Ostojic. [[Upadica Marasović: Ljubicic, Ljubicic, I apologize.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14812	Thank you very much, Professor Marasovic. And you're right, the fragmentation, the fragmentation, the feed system is a key and the only problem of Croatian health care, not people. And my predecessor, Col. Milinovic, said very honestly that he left me between the other and three problems unresolved, one was the tumour clinic, the other was the information problem, not to mention the company, and the third was the problem of the KB Mercury Hospital. He dictated very honestly to me and handed me all the contracts, all the annexes of the contract. So I must commend my colleague Milinovic for taking a significant step at the time of his term of office, and these were e-recepts. There's no doubt about it at all. Unfortunately, he failed to resolve the contract that we managed to resolve, unfortunately he failed to open the tumour clinic for a year and two months and in those 14 months, and the 14 months increased the number of waiting lists for all of our citizens who have tumors. If the tumour clinic had been closed for 14 months, there was no way in. We opened it in two months. As we opened it, we hired those we were supposed to hire, personally put all the old equipment, old beds, old cassules, and reduced the waiting list. So we solved Ericsson Nikola Tesla and here's the good news, maybe Col. Milinovic doesn't know, the other day we managed to solve the first phase of KB Mercury. Finally, after eight years of investment, that hospital also sees at least part of the light of day. Thank you very much, dear colleague Marasovic, for your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14813	Now we'll hear the replica of Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. I was encouraged by the replica when you said you had a meeting with the IMF, and what the IMF is going to ask you in this document you don't have. So the key to this document is how much that health care will cost. And what the IMF will discuss with you as it has spoken with all your predecessors and with counterpart Linic will discuss how much that health care will cost. Because look, you can't say that health care is no problem if you're in health care last year, which was extremely tense, you've taken away 900 million kunas financially and you claim that everything is fine. That's just not true. You can talk all you want, it's just not true. And that's what the IMF is going to ask you, but that's what you're going to have to answer to the Croatian public because you don't have that information in this document. And second, tell me just how in health care you think to apply this law that the Minister of Finance proposed yesterday, which is payment within 30 days. We all know how much Croatian citizens pay in healthcare over 180, 200 days according to drug suppliers. So these are the facts and these are the things that we need to talk about here, but they're not in this document. And as long as we don't talk about these things publicly, we won't solve the health problem. And let us not say that health care is not in any way reflected in the overall economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Because health care when you take these funds out of the budget, which is with salaries somewhere around 27, 28 billion kuna and what the hospital's own incomes turn total about 35 billion kunas annually. And it doesn't matter to anyone but not to the Croatian economy whether these expenditures will be 10% higher or 10% smaller because they are 3 and a half billion kuna. And that's something that had to be a special passport in this document because without it, this document that I can call state analysis, unfortunately, no strategy is worth anything because you don't know who's going to pay for it all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14815	Here's the minister waiting to respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14816	We will have to pay as we paid the debt, we will have to pay not us, not the Government, not the Parliament, but the Croatian tax collectors, all of our citizens the debt you know and I am huge. You've said nicely how long it is, I'm going to quote you, I'm going to quote great drugs, I'm going to quote the former Minister of Health and former Deputy Prime Minister not Milinovic but the other one who says so my hospitals don't get paid for three four years. That's a fact. So not 30 days, 60 days, but three, four years. But don't keep bringing me back nine months. I said in the first 15 days how long it was. I made a mistake at 1%. It's a statistical mistake, and now we're doing everything we can to solve that debt. Yesterday in law, if you did, and you did read it in detail for 30 days, and for health care for 60 days. And now it's a public procurement competition. It's for you exclusive. We made public procurement so that we made... all clinical hospitals including county hospitals where they will believe or not the payment deadline will be 60 days. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And I have an IMF in front of me, of course, that's right, I have an IMF position paper. You know what that is. You know? And in paper from A to K, there are 15 exact measures with accuracy, because these are very serious people. The IMF is a prominent international institution with an exact amount to do. And there's been a pool of public procurement that's going to make a tender for some drugs, for generics, etc. So quantified and weighted deja vu, already seen. The IMF came and then. Why? Because it was a recession. And that's how it is. That's the way it is. Every eight years we enter a recession that lasts for several years, but there will be ladies and gentlemen because I must not speak personally, ladies and gentlemen in four years will be like the rise of GDP in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14817	And the last replica, representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to say, I'm disappointed with the introduction of the Minister of Health's statement because I thought we'd hear 30 minutes about the National Strategy for the Development of the Health System for the next 8 years. You've been talking for 15 minutes, and you've kept the most on what hurts you the most. That's what you explained and wanted to convince me that there was a public debate. There was no public debate. We got this document in 7 months preparing for a public debate that was supposed to be here for at least 9 months. You have not answered two key questions, one Mr. Jandrokovic whether there will be layoffs as announced by the finance minister in the Croatian health system. The other of Mr. Shuker, you have no indication of how much and how it will be paid. Now that you're going to the IMF and this is good, this is a health system analysis. We asked to and withdraw this document because only on one page was the development strategy. Now in the new document, it's on page five. But tell the IMF as it says in your document that there are obligations in the healthcare system of 154 million kunas. You were talking about 5, now about 7 billion kuna, and now that they have reached obligations at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute over half a billion kuna in the last six months. You're saying that people are the highest quality of the health system. That's why you're breaking collective agreements, why you're breaking collective agreements, why you're breaking collective agreements, and why when people cut budgets, the means of internships, they're now announcing a strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14819	Minister Ostojic will respond to this replica too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14820	The first strike was during Rameses the third strike in Egypt. This is the first strike described in the 12th century B.C.E. You asked me four questions, but you reiterated the question of the honourable representative, the respected representative of Mr Jandrokovic and the respected representative of Shuker. So, of the four of you repeated it, and judging by their reaction, they're very happy with my answer, so I wouldn't repeat the answers to those questions because it doesn't make any sense anymore. So, I know there are people who are hard to write or read, but listening doesn't make sense. You're right, commitment was a game. Come on, please! Don't bring me back to tell you now about the five and seven billion you've brought down and how you've worked. So they reached their commitments from 90 days to 180 days of payment, from 180 bottoms to 360 days. Well, it's a game of fake numbers. Not that it's the first year of the Faculty of Economics. It's the first year of high school for economists. You've been expanding payment deadlines, and that's the answer to question three. And fourthly, yes, it's debts, I agree. The debt of home health pay attention to this, the debt of home health of Lika-Senj County over 6 months is 10 million kuna. Founder and county owner. Godfather, they're asking me for help. So, not KBC, not county hospitals, but the foundation of home health, home health is 10 million kuna. They're in front of it. And that's what we're going to ask you very quickly to give us tools, to give us control tools how to solve that thing exactly what Mr. Babic asked me to do. So, let's connect the system and the emergency room and the home of health. I've got five more seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14821	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Gordan Jandrokovic is asking for a word to say, to explain where we have injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14822	Well, yes, Mr. Vice President, that used to be Article 212. I'm sorry that I'm not doing my best in the new Rules of Procedure yet, but I don't think it's right for the minister to talk about what my colleague Shucker and I feel and that we're happy with his answer because he couldn't read it from anything. So we are not satisfied with his answer and fellow MP Milinovic reiterated the issue for this reason. So I don't think the minister had the right to talk about what MPs felt because he didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14823	In this way, our Rules of Procedure stipulates that the minister can be replicated and that the minister can respond to the replica. It is not precise that the minister must respond in that replica, no rules of procedure have been broken. I expect you, as a responsible representative, to address the Committee on the Constitution. If you don't do this, I'll find that you've abused the Rules of Procedure and I beg you not to do it anymore. Now, I'm asking if the committee reporter will take the floor? Yes or no? Yeah. Dear Representative Biljana Borzana, Committee on Health and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the 13th session of the Committee held on 18 September 2012, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the proposal for a National Health Development Strategy. During the debate, board members assessed that the strategy contained a comprehensive analysis of the health situation, serving as a foothold for the design and planning of the next actions, therefore as a framework document. Special attention was paid to the benefits and weaknesses of the Croatian health system, emphasising information, human resources, accessible health care and reorganisation of the establishment of health institutions in terms of functional integration of health homes, family medicine doctors in concessions, daily hospitals and specialist hospital services and the need to develop palitative care. During the debate, the importance of financing and financial stability of health care is highlighted. After the debate, the board members decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a National Health Development Strategy from 2012 to 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14825	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. We start with clubs, of course. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14826	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Assistant Minister, the Honorable Parliamentary Representatives. First of all, I have to say that it wasn't so idyllic on the board because I made a completely different position that didn't appear to be in the board's report, so I have to say that the committee's report isn't exactly in line with what was said. I'm sorry that the minister left here, just as bad as the first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic left yesterday because when it comes to such important things, I don't think it's a good thing that those people who wear them, represent, represent, represent, etc. Then they just walk away for whatever reason. However, it is often forgotten and wants to forget, we have witnessed this in the opening of this session, that Parliament, this Croatian Parliament is the Supreme Body, and that executive power is what the executive authority says. It seems that the pots are confused, so some people think they're the main ones, and this is how this Parliament serves pro-forma and tells its stories and it's not too important anyway. But to come to the subject of today's. I have to admit when I saw this document that I thought there was a mix-up first. Confused because the document is called the National Health Strategy 2012-2020, and actually when you look at it it is about one statistical basis for the analysis of the health situation. So, not about the strategy, but I repeat the statistical basis for the health analysis. Namely, how do you spell the strategy? Whoever of us is, and so am I, and many of us here have participated in writing strategies know that when a strategy is written at the beginning, the first analysis of the existing situation is usually given, but it includes the usual beginning of only one-quarter, one-third of the perhaps material, and then, based on that analysis, the analysis of the situation is made in the rest of the document of visions, suggestions are made which will develop something in the future, etc. Now look, look at the page number. In this document that has 310 pages in it, literally without any exaggeration, 15 pages refer somewhat to the future, mostly in very general phrases, or this is often a simple repetition of something that has already been mentioned in these 300 pages. All other contents of the document are actually numerous tables. As the minister said by thanking it 300 I guess tables, I did not count them, which actually show data collected by the World Health Organization, the World Bank, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the State Statistical Institute, etc., a series of tables. So once again, it's not about strategy, it's about one statistical basis for analysis of the situation. Now, that state-of-the-art analysis is everything. There is a number, simply a number of things where equal weight is given to completely different aspects. And the most important ones aren't highlighted and pulled out. For example, in this document you can find a series of data from tooth health to science in medicine that is completely unclear actually how it was found here because it is neither in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health nor it is funded but it is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So all the data is also taken from the ministry probably simply to get a larger number of pages and make it look so nice. What, for example, is the Health Development Strategy data on the percentage of female researchers in Croatia and the like? So you realize it has nothing to do with strategy. Now, according to the EU strategic framework from 2014 to 2020 on which this document is attached. 10th calls for each country to draw up a strategic document that should contain three things: coordinated measures to improve the availability of health services, there is no such document and no measures are proposed and at least coordinated. Secondly, measures to achieve efficiency in the health sector through the application of effective health care models are not available either. And thirdly, the tracking and checking system, there's no such thing as that. In this mentioned EU document, the country's strategic documents are also required, and this is very important, that the strategic framework must show the available budgetary resources and cost-orientation of funds to the health system's priority needs, and there is not one single letter in this document, literally no single letter on how much funds will be needed, from where these funds will be provided, and that you can see it precisely because, on a clear request from the esteemed representative, the minister has not given any answer. So it's completely unclear what's going to happen over the next eight years with health funding. Although such a document would have been expected to have no idea or vision of solving serious problems in which Croatian health care is indeed presently located. So, the problems of Croatian health care certainly I assure you are not what was said three minutes ago by two hospitals and e-mailing, in no case at all. It is probably the biggest challenge for Croatian health care to address health funding and bridge the huge gap between the high level of health care that our citizens and our patients and healthcare professionals want on the one hand and on the other hand the reality of the poor economic situation of this country in which health funds have been constantly shrinking dramatically lately. In fact, a reduction in the resources for healthcare, a contribution for health care of 2%, amounting to about 2.5 billion kuna in the money this year and an announced reduction of the same amount next year will result in a significant catastrophic collapse of Croatian health, and this should be made clear to people. In fact, it's very clear. If you have less money, you can't have the same thing that happened with more money. I am not an economic expert, however, those who work in the real economy entrepreneurs etc. So not those who out of their cabinets give theoretical recipes as we had the chance to listen to a lot of things yesterday, they say that the reduction of health contributions actually did not have a major impact on the reduction of work in the economy or on competitiveness, and certainly not on employment, because we have the largest number of unemployed since we know lately. It has, however, affected the lack of resources in health care. Consistent reductions in the budget of hospitals resulting from such a policy will not happily lead to patients not being provided with a service or refusing patients, of course, not taking this into account but will certainly increase the debt of a healthcare institution. It is clear to everyone that it is impossible to do better, more services on new appliances, etc. with significantly less money. It's just impossible. Therefore, it is simply true, and no matter how much in the preparation of the public to cut resources for health care and to cut salaries to health care professionals in the government... the media has recently written that healthcare workers work too little, that they spend too much, etc. The truth is simple, so if you have less money, and now the health care has less money, unfortunately, because that's how he's supposed to be able to do whatever we want. There is no proposal in this document to resolve the sustainable financing of the health system. Instead, I simply find it on page 187 that the health system is not financed in a sustainable way and that it is in a constant deficit. Well, what's next? On pages 106 to 158, then on pages 52, the future is only 15 pages, 52 pages list the advantages and disadvantages of different methods of financing the health system and the state of financing at this time. There is no proposal on how to fix it in the future in Croatia. There is no word in this document on how to resolve hospital financing in a situation where there is a huge debt hospital, a huge amount of non-refundable hospital claims that have performed the services, treated the patients and spent the funds, but HZZO will never pay them because they have exceeded the limit that has been set for them without any criteria and in this year repeatedly reduced. This document does not speak at all about why money does not follow the patient i.e. why those hospitals that treat more patients with more complicated diseases and spend more money don't get any more money. How to resolve the relationship between state and private health, which is completely unresolved in Croatia? There's nothing in this document to talk about. How do you solve the problem that a significant part of health care that should be carried out at the primary level especially in large cities is passed on to secondary and tertiary cities? Or how to solve the problem that patients in large cities often skip family medicine doctors and seek medical services in hospitals of the highest rank. These should, of course, be stimulating financial measures to encourage no penalty or threat measures, but there is nothing in this document. About primary health care in this document there are literally half the pages of general claims and we swear that primary healthcare should solve 80% of all cases, etc. Is that a reflection of what we want? Half a page of general claims. How do you solve the problem that one hospital wants to reduce the costs of sending patients to another even though there is absolutely no excuse for that? How do you solve the problem at least formally all health services in reality are available to all citizens? How do you solve the problem of lack of doctors and sisters? How do we prevent our healthcare professionals from leaving the EU because of the low wages this government is seeking to reduce further abroad? How do you solve the problem that the average age of healthcare professionals is almost 50 years, which is 6 years more than it was 50 years ago? The answer to these questions that I have now asked will not be found in this document anywhere. In which I repeat myself on page 310, only 15 refers somewhat to what the whole document should actually refer to. But even in these 15 pages, most of the claims are completely general and reminds me of the point of a joke that is about to be the only point, it is better to be young, healthy, and rich than old, sick and poor. Well, of course that's true and of course good wishes are always important, but it's certainly not a strategy. That what is generally said in these fifteen pages will not be realized, for example, by a recent decision not to approve, for example, the opening of a Palitative Care facility that has built and equipped itself with its own means and with the help of the church and we are talking about palitative protection. Is that it? I know that in response I will probably be told later unfortunately the minister is not here, that details will be elaborated in the implementation programmes, however, if such action programmes, including, for example, the mentioned master plan of hospitals, etc. I can only work if the clearly defined framework or general direction or vision of the development of the system does not have it in this document I do not know how implementing documents will be done. And finally I want to say HDZ won't vote for this document, although we know that the majority of parliament will vote as you can vote anything you want because you have most hands. We will not vote for this document not because we think that this strategy is bad because, as I unfortunately said in this document of strategy and vision, there is nothing, but because in three or six months or a year when the government again does not know which times another bad move and then justifies it by saying that it is the achievement of the health development strategy voted in the Croatian Parliament, and then the Croatian public will rightly rebel in the same way as with Plan 21, we can clearly expose it and say we are not here in front of the Croatian Parliament saying that it is not a strategy that this is an analysis of the situation with a number of problems and disadvantages, I can possibly later say that, but some things need to be made clear. Unfortunately, as the Government has no strategy in other areas, it is evident from this document that there is neither in health nor in health, and it is clear that this is not a health strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14827	Thank you, Professor Reiner. We have several replicas on this exhibit of yours. The first replica was reported by distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Reiner, I'd like to correct you first. It's not true that this document is a document in which the strategy is only spoken on 15 pages, I think the public does need to be honest. The document has 310 pages, but the strategy, including the tables, is listed on page 26, if we're going to include the tables, or more precisely about 8.4%. What I think you've analyzed well, which is missing from this document. This is a document that should be given guidelines, not all questions answered, but at least given guidance on key issues of Croatian health care over the next few years. We're not talking about a document of some short-term character for the next six months or a year. And a man must be disappointed when he really sees, I'm sorry he doesn't have a minister but there will be discussions during the day, so we'll open up certain questions, so there's no detecting the most important problems, let alone offering answers to how these problems are solved. I'll just mention a few things. Mr. Minister himself said in the introduction that one of the key problems in the health system is lack of personnel. And how, I'm going to ask just one question, how do we solve this problem when we have a situation where the Croatian government's moves are going in this direction that there's no payment of the traineeship for healthcare professionals. It's said to be invested in people, not in buildings...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14829	Lock it down, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14830	Unfortunately, there's not a word here about people or buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14831	This replica will be answered by distinguished representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the house.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14832	So we have to respond to the replica in the sense that maybe it happened that I overlooked one plate, so then it certainly didn't dramatically affect the ratios of the ones that exist that I repeat. However, in the usual documents, most of the documents should provide for the future, give a vision, and this document does not give it. But let me just say what's on those few pages at the end. Here's the claim of a vision, so what kind of health care we're going to have for the next eight years is this. The health information system must integrate all data circulating in the healthcare system and ensure that data is accessible to authorised entities with a high degree of security and protection. Is that a vision, I don't know. Let me quote it further. The management capacity is an important prerequisite for the efficient and efficient functioning of the health system and is therefore necessary to continue with the systematic education of the health management staff, taking care of everything rather than just the highest levels of governance. Or, all healthcare professionals should be able to achieve higher levels of education which will have a favourable impact not only on their competences but also on the attractiveness of health professions. So now if someone thinks it's a vision, it's so many general claims, and it's in those back pages that represent some kind of vision. These are general claims as you can find in any document, hundreds of documents, hundreds of documents, different organizations, etc., etc. So that's the contents of these last pages that I am, and you're very kindly saying that it's a strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14833	Thank you. Second replica, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14834	Thank you very much. A fellow Reiner, indeed, argues that this is an excellent and extensive review or intersection, a breakdown of the state of health in Croatia, compared with data from the World Health Organization and all other data contained in this strategy. But when you look at the most important latest pages in which they write strategic developmental directions, then you see that it writes about improving connectivity, equating quality of health care, increasing the efficiency of the health system, increasing availability of health care and improving health indicators. I am convinced that such a strategy, therefore, and these goals that write here. the direction that they exist from Ramses II. through Maria Teresa to Vlahusic, Ljubicic, Milinović and here we go. So, indeed, one general setting on some kind of strategy that we are actually discussing today, or what exactly is said to be the National Strategy for Health Development, a strategy without strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14835	The replica corresponds to the esteemed vice president of the home of Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14836	Well, I would answer, namely, a little bit of my esteemed colleague Boro Grubisic is misquoting me, I didn't say it was an excellent analysis, but I said it was an analysis. Because to say that it's excellent then some other parts of that analysis should be and unfortunately they're missing. So even in that analysis, data are missing, for example. analysis of hospital infrastructure, number of hospital beds, operating halls, daily hospitals, number of doctor’s specialisation, nurses. All that's missing in that analysis. There is no analysis of the effects of the reduction in hospital limits, hence the reduction in financial resources that occurred this year, which has a significant impact on hospital functioning. There is no analysis of the impact of the reduction in DTS coefficients on the reduction of expenditure beyond the limit. Those of you who are in health know very well what DTS means. There is no analysis of the growth of expenditure on particularly expensive medicines, no analysis of the cause of lack of hospital income, no number of DTP procedures and points on the blue book by which everything is calculated. There is no number of operations per surgeon, per operating room, which could provide very useful information about the effect of certain institutions. There's no analysis of the patient's gravity to the hospitals. The number of devices, for example, that individual hospitals have, but not the number of examinations on these devices. Well, of course, someone having a device and doing one search in a week isn't exactly the same thing if they have a device and they're doing 20 searches on it. There is no analysis of effective results by hospitals and activities, e.g. Number of patients per doctor, spent funds per doctor. There are no data on the recovery of hospitals that took place in 2012 and roughly one oversight, say medical biochemistry masters as healthcare professionals who have almost 500 in this country who have just complained to the board and asked for them to be placed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14837	Thank you. Third replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Please turn on, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14838	The Independent Representatives' Club will support this Health Development Strategy Act. But we also respect and accept the criticisms and suggestions that come from the side of the opposition, because this seems to me to be the first draft law to go on long-term. According to one national strategy of the plan and development programme, Croatia should also be supported by those critical of this proposal as well as the proposal itself. We need the Croatian Assembly to come to the joint forces with a document that will pass either by majority or by consensus and that is the basis for the creation of a National Strategy for the Development of Croatia in this form of the Health Development Strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14839	Here's a reply to this line from the vice president of the Reiner House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14840	With a lapus correction. Of course, it's not about the law. It's about the strategy. I must say, however, that unfortunately these good wishes, which the honourable representative has said, will not come true, because this and this strategy with all these shortcomings, with all this lack of strategy will actually be adopted in this House. We don't have any illusions. We know that it will be adopted in this House, we just want to say very clearly today that this is not good and that Croatia will not have health development strategies, so when it starts asking questions again in half a year, in a year etc. Then let's not all be surprised that I quote the first vice president of the government as a pizza of worms when things aren't going to work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14841	Thank you, too. Here's Professor Reiner now following you three replicas from your club. I don't know what they resent about your exposure, but that's what we'll hear. First, the esteemed Darko Milinovic. You've reported the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14842	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you spoke about the funds and that in this document, and I think we agree here that what Mr Grubisic said is missing from this document. He's missing a vision of the development of the health system for the next eight years. But the funds are important. 1. Next year, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute should have exited the Treasury and thus the Croatian healthcare system would have control over the funds intended for health spending. Contribution 15% is somewhere around 19 billion kuna. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is about 4 billion kuna and that is where the health system with 23 billion kuna could function. What the minister is saying in this document and what he's doing is contrary. He cut the budget from 15 to 13%. Now look what he's saying in this document. If public spending on health is reduced, the burden is shifted to patients. So with this document, the minister says that in the next period, a difficult period of economic crisis will shift the burden to patients. Now look at the opposite. I don't know what the Minister says, I know but he doesn't know what he's saying. And great experts suggest not reducing public health expenditure in times of crisis, and improving efficiency in order to justify such a policy. So the minister speaks one thing, the other writes. She's got one song of lies, you're lying to me, you're lying to me the closest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14843	The replica will be answered by the vice president of the House of Professors. Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14844	So what I'd like to say is the fact that in this document, unfortunately, not entering what the esteemed representative said about the amounts doesn't stand, again, I'm not saying a single line about what effect will be reduced by 2 and a half billion this year and by 2 and a half billion next year. Quite certainly, if from the amount of 23 billion to rough, we can now discuss whether it's worse or worse, but roughly 23 billion you move especially next year 5 billion. No one in this country can convince anyone that they will have the same health care as they can have with 23 billion unless... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14845	Next replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm sure you believe I don't have anything, I don't blame Mr. Rainer, but I want to complement him in what he said. In fact, I was encouraged by Mr. Babic's statement and reply when he replicated him about the establishment of emergency medicine in Croatia. And when he said that his merit during the government's constitutional session was successful when the second point was held on the grounds of the importance of emergency medicine in the Republic of Croatia to discuss at the government's session and the establishment of emergency medicine in Croatia. I know about the area of the island of Korčula that the establishment of emergency medicine in Korcula was made on the proposal of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute in line with the units of local self-government in Korcula and with the county. On 27 June, on a proposal from the Government, the Health Protection Act amending Article 37(2) explicitly states that the minister is changing the existing network with the prior opinion of the representative body of the unit of regional self-government. That agreement has been reached on Korčula right now. The headquarters of the emergency medicine station was established, but three days after the Council adopted such a law on a proposal from the minister, in which the minister must contact the local self-government itself changes the structure of emergency medicine in Korcula without contact, without the opinion of the unit of local self-government, without the mayor's opinion. Therefore, I would also like to say that Mr. President of the Croatian Government said in Germany on Wednesday that the Croatian state is a nation of paradox. I would say that this is the behaviour of the minister, when he does not respect the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament on his proposal, practically represents this government, with the power of the paradox. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14847	Thank you very much. So, one little brief explanation. In the opinion of the unquestionable authority when it comes to foreign words, The brotherly love of Klaic means to contradict, to oppose words, not to complete an opinion. Now, either Bratoljub Klaic didn't know what it meant to replicate, or we use that word wrong. The reply to the replica, Professor. Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14848	Let me just say one thing to the esteemed representative, and he and his colleague Babic mentioned an ambulance. I'm very clear, I seem to be quite detailed, and here are some of my colleagues making fun of me because I've marked things in detail in this strategy this way, and I think I've read very closely in those last few pages as many as there are, but just a few of them, compared to 310 pages, I haven't found any words about an ambulance, and then, unfortunately, not everything we're talking about right now is not in the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14849	Thank you. We'll hear the last line, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, fellow Reiner, you said that the minister said that with less money, it would be the same service. It is one thesis that is constantly being passed in this House, regardless of which minister came to propose some law. However, we are all aware that health services are due to new medicines, new diseases, etc. Each year they are increasingly expensive and expensive, but very interesting that on one hand the finance minister announces a reduction in the health contribution next year. This means that, given that this strategy does not practically provide for a reduction in health costs that these health costs, which according to Article 62, I think the Health Act, are being reconciled from the state budget for certain groups of non-healthy citizens and do not have to pay for health insurance, will be transferred to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then, somewhere in silence, you hear that by introducing a property tax, part of the money will virtually belong to local self-government units, that part of the health costs will be transferred to local self-government units. However, when we withdraw the equality sign, then it is said we did not take your salary from the bill 2% for a health contribution, but we will take it from your home budget through some extra tax through what you get through pay. Because you simply cannot reduce the resources needed in health care without health care reform. There's no reform here. Unfortunately, you can't see the reform here. Reform that would clearly show cost cuts. It is not a reform if you charge your doctors an average for an annual holiday for a net salary, not according to the pay received in the past month. It's not a reform, it's something, it's an indication that some kind of change is pinched and that it would show the Croatian public that the budget is what it is. However, as we go by the end of the year, we will see that the expenditure side of the budget is not nearly as idyllic as it is said but will simply be seen that many in Croatia have not received the money they were supposed to receive from the budget during this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14851	Thank you very much. Here is a reply to this replica by the esteemed vice president of the House of Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14852	Of course, it is not a reform to reduce wages to doctors and nurses and it is clear that something that is certainly not going to be good, it is certainly something that will be extremely bad, and it is announced and of course that we should all be against it. Whether the cloudy promises that we've been hearing for the past few months are going to be made every so many months, and then the same people are making totally opposite promises, or some of their other colleagues are making totally opposite promises, etc., whether there are going to be any cloudy promises that one day when a real estate tax is introduced, some of that money will be given to health care or not I honestly don't believe it at all, but live or see it. However, speaking of that tax, it is also very clear how much this is a deep antisocial tax, I have already talked about it, because this tax will not unfortunately hit tycoons or rich people, but it will hit the middle layer and the poor people who inherited some kind of country house, etc., it will be estimated, they will have to pay a significant part of the tax out of their modest salary of 2, 3 or 4 thousand kuna, and whether a fraction of that western health care is poored with reduced capacity, with a reduced number of workers who are unhappy with small salaries about it afterwards, we will see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14853	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. I call on the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar to state the position of the Croatian Labour Party Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14854	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will begin my debate today on this subject first with seven concrete proposals, and later I will explain some of them. And I am convinced that Mrs Djukanovic will understand very well what I am talking about, record them and that she will understand them even better than if the minister could understand them here. The first proposal, when it comes to county hospitals or conduct law and true decentralisation or state them. The condition we have further can no longer be maintained. Secondly, the balance of medical staff specialists at national level for all hospitals not only clinics and the cost of specialising in state spending, not hospital spending. Third, prepare a regional hospital specialization instead of whispering about the closure of some hospitals using the kilometre criterion of each other. And every time that topic opens, then the hospital Čakovec is the one that puts Croatia's citizens under their noses because they say only 15 km away is the hospital in Varazdin. Fourthly, introduce professional training, training for health management, health management and institutions because Croatia does not have this, and we in Croatia believe that hospital directors can only be doctors and no one else. Fifth, introduce work into two shifts in all hospital systems, especially in diagnostics. Sixth, immediately raise awareness of health professionals' work simultaneously in the public and private sectors. The greatest evil is born when the same doctor works in the public and the afternoon in the private system. And my 7th proposal on behalf of the Croatian Labourists, do not reduce the contribution to health insurance. Unfortunately, you've already reduced it once and accepted that proposal. Further reduction of the health contribution will go to the harm of the sick. 7 proposals which, by their content, are in the implementing sense, let us call these strategies. But what is our Croatian problem? The life span of all the strategies that we have adopted in the Assembly is one mandate of the Executive Authority. And every new government brings its long-term strategy. The frequent change destabilises every system and the health system is particularly sensitive to frequent and radical changes and it is not good and I fear that this strategy will have a lifetime to end this term, and that another health minister will come before another Parliament with his strategy. As many health ministers as we've had so far, we have so many strategies. I will not talk about questions and suggestions or the content of the medicine profession at all because with this many doctors in the Croatian Parliament would be truly unworthy. But I want to talk about the management of the health system because I know something about it. Our basic problem is ownership and responsibility. If we analyze this subject just for example. in county or as some call them general hospitals then we come up with a strange hybrid combination of false decentralisation in which the county is legally owned by the hospital. The founder, the county said, has founding rights over the facility. How can this God - fearing owner manage a hospital if HZZO determines the annual or monthly limit of funds that the hospital will often receive with delay every month. And that amount of HZZO limit is not under discussion, agreement and dialogue with the owner of the county, but with the hospital directly through some god-awful board of directors. Secondly, the model was unfortunately introduced in mid-1996 and no one wanted to change it and it was nakaradan. As it seems, in practice, I'm going to illustrate the exact data of Chakovec Hospital. So HZZO cut the monthly limit of 9 million 647 kuna. Of course, the hospital can achieve a small part of other revenues based on supplementary health insurance, systematic checks, resourcefulness to get something else but the limit of HZZO is practically 97, 95% of total income. We are now going to the expenditures, employees' rights to the disbursement of employees has been determined by a collective contract signed by the minister. The mass of funds per collective contract for employees is 90% of the limit or about 80% of the hospital's total income per month. I repeat, the cost of employees under a collective contract not signed by the mayor but the minister is about 90% of the limit imposed by HZZO in the hospital. Food, medicines, hygienic material, medical supplies, energy is all the cost of one hospital. And it's the only room for saving the director or the board of directors. Turn off cooling in the summer, reduce heating in the winter, less toilet paper, patients with their own pajamas and bed sheets to the hospital it's a way of saving. When the hospital comes to a loss or has unpaid obligations, the directors say the ministers are guilty, the administrative councils are guilty, and the county ministers who do not know how to manage their hospital say. What's he gonna run? Neither affect income nor expenditure, the main income and the main expenditure. But that's not all. Then the Law on Institutions is withdrawn and says "The County that has founding rights is responsible for losses" you have to resolve the losses. Why doesn't the Croatian Institute conclude a contract with the county? Then why isn't collective agreements signed by the mayor for an institution where he has founding rights? So I say either do a proper decentralisation or support general hospitals. The centralised incomes and expenditures and the decentralised responsibility of the minister cannot go further, cannot go further. Can we value hospitals, distinguish them better than weaker ones, good ones than bad ones, are there criteria and parameters? The number will be given by the average number of lying in one patient's hospital. From the documents you gave, I see that the Croatian average is 9.4. Chakovec Hospital has 6.3. Number of beds per thousand inhabitants of Croatia average 5.66, Čakovec Hospital has 2.9, usage 80%. The number of gravitating patients the hospital is processing, colleague Reiner mentioned that he was missing inside, Hospital Chakovec 83. Getting a reference in Međimurje for the clinic in Zagreb is a lottery hit. Everything is settled in Čakovec Hospital, daily hospital 28 beds contract, use 130% because they practically work in almost two shifts. Number of non-health staff per bed 0.54 Croatian average 1.1. Emergency hospital reception and 21 doctor for specialization in Zagreb. Their pay goes to the hospital when they're on specialization. And with such rationality indicators, this same hospital has a loss of 9.5 million kuna and 49 outstanding liabilities. Ten million kunas have been rescheduled recently by HZZO. Minister, you haven't recovered the losses or poor operations of hospitals, you've solved the gaps in the established model of the hospital system of the Republic of Croatia. You've recovered this and you've had to take care of it and you have to take care of it until the end because these losses didn't produce hospitals, but a system that was set up in financial terms on July 1, 1996, with all the elements of negativity and each minister refused any change. And what happens is, when the hospital sends their patients to the clinic, they process, they make a diagnosis, they prescribe therapy, and after two days, they get them back to the hospital. Why, in order to release their expenses and transfer them to the burden of general hospitals, should they keep them for treatment according to standard. In this way the clinics are shown to be successful, and the county hospitals in losses and unpaid... and it received a massive phenomenon. Patients from Zagreb are forced immediately after the diagnosis is established, Sending a doctor to specialization by the director is a risky decision because every major number of doctors on specialization is a new cost to him, he does not have one. And it lasts two, three years, five, depending on the specialization. And if the director thinks long-term he wants to have good specialists and send 21 doctors to specialize he has to pay them for two, three, four years, five years which is his fixed cost in expenditures without any intervention or state aid. Decentralised funds for the health system is the only place where the county through the administrative board can influence the investment maintenance of current investment and even capital if it can deal with this money, especially in the purchase of equipment until it has been centralised. Primary health care. When the head of the patient was introduced, the doctor became the head rather than the sick man, 30% say he solves the primary and 70% write the manuals. We destroyed the homes of health, privatized, leased, and later concerted primary health care and transferred most of the cost from primary to secondary health care. We switched most of the cost that way to a secondary hospital. We don't have health care. Try to find managers at 20 hospitals, not doctors, managers who will know how to run hospitals. This education system in Croatia does not exist. And when the county wants to put a good manager in charge of the hospital, the right manager in Croatia can't find him. I read in a newspaper the other day an interesting comparison of several hospitals and doctors as many operations as they did, hips installed and so on. And now those who have had more of these checks, operations, procedures have been declared good, and those who have a smaller number of bad ones. But you know what the truth is? As soon as a general hospital specialist performs more hip-installation operations, prosthetics, examinations, creates a higher cost of hospital without an extra-income kuna, and the director of people says you work less, we don't have enough money. And there's a destimulation of specialists, excellent doctors because the finances that dim him to do more, only if there's no courage, the director of the board of directors who'll say we'll do whatever we need, and how many losses and debts we won't look back on because we don't produce it. Such a situation in the hospital system suffers from patients, the directors must save because we are not repairing a system that was misset in '96, but only strategies, and in the strategy in what I have now said I have seen nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14855	Thank you very much. We have reported five replicas, it's 10 minutes, and if there are answers to the replicas, and I don't doubt there will be any, it's the next 10 minutes, and then we're approaching the time or we're already going to be out of voting time. So I invite the MPs who are now in their cabinets and there are preparing to discuss this or another item of the agenda to be instructed in the Assembly so that we can vote after these replicas. The first replica, the esteemed representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Lesar, you've done an excellent analysis of the hospital system, but one is not true. It is true that the directors receive by mail what they are and how much limit they are given and with a delay of several months. When we started reforming the health system, then I, with every mayor and with every head of the hospital, sat down specifically, determined the actual costs of a hospital, and based on that, we formed limits. Some hospitals got a 4% increase, some that were cut 17%, some 3, some four, some stayed the same, for that reason because we determined the actual costs. If the minister had come here it would have been correct and said the people, MPs help, the Croatian health system is collapsed, waiting lists are getting longer and longer, and the availability of health service is all rope and rope. Hospital recovery, and you're right, there's absolutely no word. They were partially covered, i.e. about 500 million kuna, but by violating the State Budget Act, we read this in one daily list yesterday, from the position of prescription medicines. We've cut the payment from 300 to 180 days of prescription drugs, now it's back to 300 days. And that's why you're right when you say there's no recovery of the health system. Look at only one thing. Hospitals owned by the state spend about 500 million kilowatts of electricity annually, while other hospitals in Croatia together spend about a billion and a half kilowatts of electricity. Electricity goes 20% up, it's a hospital burden of an additional 20m euros, and the minister is linearly reducing all hospitals. And that's a lack of vision. Maybe one hospital should have stayed on the same budget, one smaller, one more. And that's a lack of vision. So the burden of the hospital's energy-only system is electric, and it's not heating up on electricity is 20m euros. And then he calls the directors who don't know how to run the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14857	Agent Milinovic, let's stick to the weather. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14858	Comrade Milinovic, I agree with you that this is not good. But I repeat what I said. All ministers since '96. I repeat what I've said to all the ministers since '96. To this day, they are responsible for a system that works the way you described it. You sat down with the directors of hospitals and mayors, told them how real the costs were. That's what you just said together and you guys set it up later. Because if you'd respected the criteria that I presented for the Chekovec Hospital, for example, and based on that, you'd have made a table for all the hospitals, then the even-eternal hospital today would have a limit of 12800, 12 million 800. You didn't... You kept him at a level that was six years earlier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you didn't follow the criteria of rationality, you're not my colleague, you didn't and you contributed to the continuation of that system. And you were in a situation to outrun him and introduce a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14859	Second replica of the esteemed Željko Reiner, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14860	Well, I could agree with most of those suggestions that the distinguished representative Lesar said. I'd just like to tell him that one of his proposals that he said was two shifts, unfortunately it's exactly the opposite of what we're hearing here today. The introduction of a second shift means a significant increase in costs. Either you need to increase by 25% of the staff or I don't know an overstretched staff and pay it overtime which is neither good for the staff nor for the patients. In any case, it increases costs. In a situation where we said two and a half billion less this year, and the next one is definitely announced another two and a half billion less, I don't know where we'd have the money to actually increase the number of employees who would be working on a second shift to naturally provide services to our patients, but in a situation where we keep getting paid to do it. But I'd like to say the same thing about your quote, about how you read in the paper about how many individual doctors do and how it works, etc. It is an amazing spin that occurs and as I have very clearly said it appears for the public to prepare for the reduction of healthcare funds, to reduce the salaries of healthcare professionals etc. Because when you have a situation where, for example, one article takes the number of all specialists in Croatia and says that one single procedure is done so many times, it should be divided by the number of these specialists, and then it turns out that they are working on average. Well, that's just funny, because whoever knows a little bit about health care or has had any contact with healthcare knows that health care is very specialized today and that, of course, within one specialization, people deal with certain things. So if you accidentally wanted me to do some surgery for you, I'm not going to mention what kind of procedure I'm sure you wouldn't be recommending, even though I'm an intern, a university professor, etc. But let's just say I wouldn't put myself in the hands of myself to do that procedure that, say, Professor. Ostojic knew how to do very well. He knows what I mean. I wouldn't afford it to anyone, not to myself, not to you. So it's a spin that's meaningless and there's nothing, no truth in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14861	Thank you. Replication response, Your Honor, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14862	Comrade Reiner, as regards the two shifts, this document speaks about health care 2020. If I can't do two shifts today, let's agree to do it in 2015, 2016. This is a long-term vision. And secondly, I assure you that in a large number of hospitals, especially in the diagnostics in the humanely available sense, two shifts can already work today, but there are so many resistances against the fact that this is why it does not even want to be discussed openly. Where there are no frames, we'll postpone by a year, two, and where there's a reason not to bring it in right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14863	We'll move on to the third line and the second call to the MPs to be directed to the assembly. Third replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14864	You were quiet, so I didn't hear it was my turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14865	Excuse me. So the replica is Honorable Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14866	No, no, it's okay. So, dear colleague Lesar, then I won't be holding off on about two shifts because I agree with you from your colleague Reiner. At this point, it is really impossible to do this and the question is whether and in the coming years it will be possible to do so because it is evident that there is a lack of health care staff. But I would like something else, especially now to point out, and from your debate it is well touched. That's the problem with paying for specialization. I am pleased that Mr. Minister has returned, it is known that the basic principles of health care are, therefore, the principles of comprehensiveness, continuity and availability, and that one of the biggest structural problems of availability is precisely the lack of a healthcare person at all levels, and especially of a doctor. And it's over and that's over and in this study, on one page, the 284 page emphasizes it as that problem. However, it is incomprehensible that we get that institutions are getting approvals for specialization from the Ministry of Health and that the burden, and then the HZZO doesn't want to be based on this minister's approval, so the minister didn't give approval for specialization because he didn't have to, but because he is aware that he needs that specialization. But there's no funds the institution gets only funds for regular activity, not to pay the resident. And if it didn't happen to you, Mr. Minister, that something that happened in the last term, that a health care facility, I'm glad that there's a colleague, Milinovic, that even a health care facility in Slavonia and Baranja, home of health, one gets approval. Here, I'll finish. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] To specialize in gynecology, a specialist at the end of the specialization does not want to work in the institution and results through what links a new approval can go to another hospital when it is finished. For the same specialization of two approvals. Therefore, here is the point of making it possible to pay HZZO specialisations or not to be approved if there are no funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14867	Agent Buric, please. You've been over half a minute. Dragutin Lesar thinks there's no point in answering this replica at all. Next replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14868	Mr. Vice President, I'm not a doctor, and I wouldn't want to engage in medical debates. I would just like to look back on one aspect of my colleague Lesar's discussion on how to manage the institutions. By the time we were nineties out there, we had our principals in hospitals, and I don't know what they were called. The same situation was in college. We had the principals and the deans. Why? So that a scientist can devote himself to science, that a doctor can devote himself to medicine, and that someone who's committed himself to managing it is doing it professionally. There are also professional real health management studies, education management and so on. We lack a doctor, we lack a scientist. Doctors play managers, scientists play managers. Isn't that completely illogical and actually throwing smart resources into the wind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14869	We are left to hear another replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14870	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in one part of the short part, you mentioned the primary health care from which it could be read in some way that the primary health care works a little bit, and I may have understood it that way, if I don't apologize. But this is about the following, that you were talking about both the system and the hospital, etc. And I want to warn you or perhaps inform you that the primary healthcare system is set up so that the primary health care physician could provide those 80% of health care services that there is no load and index of drug consumption, health care in the house, orthopaedic aids, disease rates, and if this exceeds every two weeks, the HZZO controller comes and right after that predator you were talking about. Can't the primary physician, I imagine 30 and a few years of doing it and I really do know a lot of things, but responsiblely I claim that the primary healthcare doctor can't be a lower HZZO operator and a successful doctor in the office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14871	This line will be answered by the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14872	Very short. I did not tell my colleague Milinkovic that primary healthcare doctors are working a little bit, but I said that the system is set up to process and solve only 30% of patients and 70% is transferred to secondary health care. No, I mean, I'm sorry you didn't present that proposal in the last term when your health ministers were in '97. I warned all the ministers what would happen when we started to establish such a system. Primary doctors work a lot with major restrictions, some more, some less, but the system is such that they do not solve but transfer a large part of the patients to secondary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14873	Thank you very much. The last call for MPs to enter the hall, and before the vote, we will hear Minister Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14874	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Thank you for the discussion on behalf of two clubs and a whole series of replicas, a tsunami of replicas. You knock on the open door. County hospitals, specializations from one place, as in all orderly states from one place for 4 years, the same salary, after 4 years of drafts as in NBA, as in America. You were a New York resident in Manhattan, Ohio, or Utah for four years the same salary. After 4 years the same day, or week because it is there a week, it is a serious exam, the same week of the exam after that week as in the NBA the best choice. You knock on the open door. That's what we're gonna do. So, all from the same source, all the same pay, all the things you watch Emergency Room – Emergency Service, that's true, that's true. So you knock on the open door about specialization. Regional hospitals, thank you, Mr. Lesar, for an interesting idea. That's where you knock on the open door, you read clearly. Management, without four years of medical management education. We've been on the ground for four years. Why? I don't know, actually I do. Two shifts - 2015, 2016 So, and now the replicas that were on you, just for a little while. Col. Milinovic says you're right there was no recovery. So why would there be a recovery? And honey and milk flow. For the last four years, honey and milk have been flowing. We have the most liquid system, all right. Why the recovery? Sanatio Latin means cure. What are you going to do when it's honey and milk? What are you going to do about it? What are you going to do about it? Was it necessary? There's honey and milk running. The most liquid, the fastest, and now the wholesalers say five years don't pay me, now the Health Home of Gospić Lika-Senj County says they're threatening my performance. And it will no longer happen (a) that the network is working, for example, on one island in Croatia where the smallest city has a T1 team, and the other two get nothing. It won't, it won't happen. That's why it's a network change. That's not fair. It's an inaccessibility of colleagues, it's not fair. According to that island where a lot of you are flying. The smallest city gets T1 and the rest gets nothing or T2. It won't because it's not fair, it's not fair. It's irresponsible, it's endangering the availability of health care. As was the threat of leaving the system in the minuses so that then the wholesales threaten to do so and threaten with short medications. Of course, more energy is growing, but, for example, the former economy minister has given the price of electricity to some companies, institutions. Google who he gave it to, and you'll get the conclusion. And it's not for those who need it, who work as hospitals for 24 hours 365 days, they heat up and cool down, and they don't have a price of energy. There are former directors, future hospital directors, and they know it best, and some of them got it. And it won't happen again. Therefore, it will not happen that for the same specialization you get two approvals. There won't be any more constitutional decisions. The Constitutional Court will no longer deal with the Ministry of Health. So please, colleagues and colleagues, I see that you have read the strategy very well, accept it because it is for the good of our citizens, because it is for the good of all our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14875	Thank you very much. A few notices. After this presentation, we have six replicas reported, but we will hear them after the vote because we announced the vote in 1200 hours. The second notice, of course, will continue with this debate not only with replicas but also with the whole debate after the vote. We've got four more clubs and nine individual agents on board. The time to apply for a hearing is up. And the third notice, we'll continue the work next week on Tuesday 25th with a point on the agenda of the concession law. So you can get ready. And now we're going to vote. We're moving on to the replicas announced by the Minister of Health. First honorary representative, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go. I'm asking the MPs who are leaving the assembly because of their urgent obligations to do so in silence. We'll be patient. Quiet, please! My colleagues! My colleague Hajdukovic, please. Let's let the vice president of the House take his line and get it together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So, in his address and reference to some remarks from the MPs, the minister said they were knocking on the open door, that they would do it, that they would do it, that it was in the plan, etc. I don't question the minister's good intentions and the minister's good wishes to do so. But what's the problem is that it's not in the strategy. This does not say in the strategy and goodwill of the minister and everything he wants to do can be done absolutely, and unfortunately, I am afraid that it will happen to break the reality of the financial situation in relation to the minister of finance, according to other parts of the government who will of course have some other priorities than the Minister of Health will have. It's often that way in life. Therefore, that is why it is not good that these things are not in this document. And I'd just like to say one more thing very clearly to everyone who doesn't understand it. Since this document goes according to the rules of the second reading, there is no supplementation. So whatever any of the distinguished representatives would say is very clever, constructively and well, there's no possibility of getting into the final document here. Therefore, I do not doubt that you will vote on such a document as this is just so that no illusions of anything we say here will change this document, and everything else will depend on how successful the minister will succeed or fail to interact with the rest of the government, and what times I fear very, very little will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14878	Thank you. The minister won't respond to the replica. Next is the replica of counterpart Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the minister one more time the same question. Deputy Prime Minister Linic said he would fire 20,000 people in the public and state sectors next year. There's about 70,000 people in health care. So, please now, Mr. Minister, because of the Croatian public directly without the environment, without big words, which a percentage of these 20,000 wastes on health care and how many people are going to lose their jobs next year in health care. So I ask you, directly, directly, to let us all hear, that we all know what's going to happen in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14880	Thank you. Here's the minister to answer your call. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14881	So I'll definitely give you your hope back. All that you said, and there was a whole series of good proposals going into action plans. So, it's all good when we've already slept through a public debate because we've been on vacation they'll get into action plans. So, whatever you say, we'll implement. As far as your question is concerned, I'll repeat what I've told you. People, sisters, doctors are our value and definitely within four years, or three years and two months there will be more doctors and nurses in the health system. There is spin off unhealthy workers with a completely clear plan of rationalization. For example, I am convinced that you would have nothing against the company Plekler, your respected General Mareković, who is there right now and his plans, but I believe that you are aware of what Plekler can offer in the outsourcing, in spin off unhealthy employees because our job doctor is to treat, and not run a system like counterpart Vuljanić said very nicely. And 30 years ago, at the Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb, whatever Johns Hawkins is today. He was Dean, the dean, but he was also the director. There is no such thing in Croatia today. She's not 20 years old. So we have to have a business director and an expert director, as already said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14882	Thank you, too. The next replica of Milinovic's colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14883	Well, I still expect the minister to speak with an understandable dictionary. I got a call from a cleaning lady from Gossić, a hospital you wanted closed and asked what it was spin off, what it was outsourcing. They don't understand you, Minister. We understand some who are in health care, but they don't understand you. You're the last one who can take care of the health system, admit it. I couldn't help it. In 2002, Minister Ostojic reduced the volume of free health services. This document from the minister you wrote won't lie to you. According to Minister Ostojic, he reduced the volume of health services in 2002. In 2002, Minister Ostojic wrote, he increased payment from the citizens' pocket and put it in a more unfavourable position. You can lie, but Mr. Secretary's document won't let you lie. This is a tragedy of this document, if public spending on health is reduced and reduced, the minister says the burden shifts and spills over to patients. About the recovery of hospitals, in the past four years, there has been no recovery of hospitals. You know why it wasn't? Because we knew and had a vision, had a strategy and the financial system was stable, which was also confirmed by international financial institutions. Admit it, I couldn't handle it, I made a new debt, listen well, a new long billion kuna, and that's why I had to resuscitate the health system with 500 million kuna. Why are you breaking the law? From the position of the drugs you're rescinding hospitals, clinical hospitals. We have reduced payment deadlines from 300 days to 180 prescriptions, and you of these funds re-schedule hospitals and re-enlarge to payment deadlines of 300 days. It's no shame to admit it, we'll help you. We know you didn't make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14884	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14885	I agree it is not a shame to admit it, but I hope that the situation will never happen 4 days ago, which happened for the first time in the 20 years of the Croatian Parliament, that a large Croatian party is looking for a break on the basis of a three-month-old document. That a large Croatian party is seeking a break from a plenary session based on unread documents. I hope it never happens again out of responsibility and respect. I'm sure it won't happen because some who haven't read, but they're beginning to see it now. Spin off is a daughter company, for example a daughter company – someone who deals with healthcare, and unfortunately because a reform has not been made so far has to take care of heating, kitchen and storage, builds a company of the daughter of unhealthy workers and tells them the working stock that you will do and manage, and in two, three, four years you will do it, that and that. It's spin off. A outsourcing is renting services. I hope I brought those two up to you. So, a unique case that based on unread documents, we're making conclusions and I hope it doesn't happen again. It's a good thing we started reading, but the height of any voice doesn't have the power of arguments either. The height of the voice can damage hearing aids, you can get professional damage, but the height of the voice does not have the power of the arguments used or not used now we will turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14886	Thank you. I would ask that we stick to the Rules of Procedure if we didn't comment from the bench until we got our word. The next replica of a colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, in the last nine months, it has become a practice for the government in this House to be false. I'd like to, given that Mr. Secretary said that a major drugstore told him she hasn't been paid for five years, to say what kind of drug is that. ... You said, you can see in the phonogram, that one big drug says she hasn't been paid for five years. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Say which and then let those who haven't been in the past five years have been sanctioned when they've been rescheduled and paid their bills. And if that's not true then it would be convenient for the Croatian public, because of all this, even what this government is doing about not solving liquidity to say it was a lapus. I think that would be correct. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, for the second time in the replica of your colleague Reiner and you have something that happened after the budget was passed that you were cut for 900 million kuna. The VAT rate has been raised, healthcare is not in the VAT system. A large part of the health costs were thus 8.7%. You didn't have it planned in the budget. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, you can't say that electricity isn't a very important factor in the expenditure side of health. Electricity went 20% plus the 8.7% I said about VAT. And you can't say that gas as energy isn't very important in hospitals, and it's up to 30% to 38% because of those kind of tariff prices, etc., and you can't say that it isn't. And finally, Mr. Minister in the City of Zagreb, where the largest hospitals have their own boiler rooms, some are tied to the city's heat grid, these 37% will certainly match them. So all that I've listed clearly says that your budget, forgive me for the term hollow, and that what is shown for the implementation of the budget in six months is not correct. That you and the finance minister didn't say that in the other six months
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14888	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14889	If I can just have one more sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14890	Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14891	... So I just want to point out what I said at the beginning half an hour ago without financial indicators just doesn't have its weight. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] And I've just given you four examples that have a lot to do with a health budget that is not small and that is not negligible for Croatian businessmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14892	Thank you. I would only before I give my colleague's word to Ostojić, asking colleagues who are both professionally and emotionally related to this topic to refrain from some comments especially from the bench. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14893	So you're right, but obviously I may be misunderstood. Electricity, the price of gas is extremely important and has a large share in the financing and business of all hospitals. That's why I regretted that the previous economy minister did not give the price of electricity and energy that he gave to others. So that was the point. But you're right. All the numbers you said were the last three correct. But we succeeded in the first six months, and you've already had the opportunity to see it fully respect the budget so to the state budget. And I don't have a lapus chalami or a lapus linguae, so neither of them is... that's exactly five years, so no. There are major drugs that have been said very clearly not to be paid for three, four, five years and it wasn't my lapus, maybe it was them who said it but mine didn't. I've been very concillative. For the first 15 days, I said how long it was, I said right away on the 15th day, we can't lower the contribution for pensioners who have a pension above 5108 kuna. I was immediately on the cover that I was the first to withdraw my promise but I am responsible and consecrated. And then I'm not talking about debt today, but they started talking about debts in the third month. Who? Well, those who ask for their money. They're talking. I'm not going to do it now, so don't ask me to analyze things and the media and say that to those to whom the money is owed. That's their right, that's what I'd say if someone owed me. Debt is no shame, you have to pay back the debt. So ask all those who ask for their money and I support it. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for these last three parameters.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14894	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14895	Now, Mr. Chairman, according to this new Rules of Procedure, which is Article 210, 211.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14896	Here, I'll give you time to read. Allow me, I'll give you time to find the Rules of Procedure and announce the exact article that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14897	The Prime Minister is obliged to answer what is asked him, unfortunately to me the minister is no longer five or three, but this is very important because of the Croatian public, Mr Minister, and I don't think we should play with these deadlines. And thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14898	This is how my colleague Shuker hopes you'll hurt the Rules of Procedure. It was a replica. The minister doesn't have to respond to the replica or he can respond to the replica. So according to that interpretation, you don't have to answer every quote. I hope you will make a written request, because otherwise, according to the Rules of Procedure, I don't think you will have the right to continue to debate or to submit a request. What? ... Article 211a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You all got on the benches of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. And I'm saying I hope you'll have all the opportunities to study this a little bit more closely over the weekend. That's why I'm saying I've given you the opportunity to find an article. Thank you. We're moving on with the replicas. A colleague of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14899	Mr. Minister, I fully agree with you that territorial migration of doctors especially specialists is very good for a small country. And if I understand you correctly, you're announcing the cost of specializing in hospitals, general hospitals will be on state burden. That's very good. I've made seven suggestions, one of them was that. I haven't heard from him since it started. You did, but I might have overheard it. It's one of the essential shifts of stimulating as many doctors specialize. Second, you told me to knock on an open door with such suggestions. You know what my accident is? I've been knocking with those suggestions on the open door for seven, eight years, and when I get inside, there's no one there. That's the problem. It's not a problem in the door, it's a problem that there's no one in there to hear it. And now you've further confused me when you mentioned outsourcing probably for unhealthy activities and activities in hospital systems. Don't rush that. Such support will be difficult to get, the quality of service always falls when it is in the outsourcing and if it is a good thing, let us experiment. Give one of the ministers to the outsourcing, say the first vice president of the government... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14900	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14901	You've made 7 proposals for the county hospital specialization, 3rd regional hospitals, 4th management, 5th shifts, 6th separation from the private and 7th contributions. You knock on all the open doors except for what you plead not to lower your contribution. We're reducing our contribution because we need to lower the labour price. We can have a hundred of us here paying extra, 50 kuna contribution, 100 times 50 is what, 5 grand. But it's better if we have a thousand employees of new employees who will pay 25 times the figure. Well, that's basically economic. So, out of these 7 other than this latter one and all the original ones, not only do you knock on the open door but that's the Dorma door, you know the one that automatically opens on the IC contact.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14902	Thank you. And the last replica of Granny Ante. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, you like acronyms and poetry, and I could sing now, but I won't, but I won't. You know those passwords, the passwords, the laurels, the words without action. No, it's not all like that, but you mentioned that it won't happen again that we have team T1 on one island and we don't have one in the other. So I'd like to ask you to contribute with more consideration and sensitivity especially in the areas where I come from. These are spaces, vast spaces with a small population. I told you today I mentioned both Vrlika and Vis, Solta let's say Zagvozd, Lovreć, Imotski at 800 square miles we don't have and we don't have these T1 teams because we don't have hospitals in that area. But it happened that you visited those areas, too, and you promised to open a maternity home, and that didn't happen. But after you left, something else happened that closed our X-rays, and then, for example, we're going to BiH, of course, private. Thank you, think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14904	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14905	You like Latin and we'll continue "res non verba". Well, look, there's an X-ray closed, that's in the home of health. Where? Wretch, yeah. Who owns the founder? Split-Dalmatia County. Who's the mayor there? I don't know. Who's the founder and the owner? He's worried about it. Not my previous minister, not me, not my future. He's the founder and the owner. And since it's an incompetent local administration I am, today is Friday, you know what I did to my colleague Babić, I sent to Mayor of the House of Health Vrgorac, although as far as I know from Imotski, Vrgorac, I sent them a memo, sent them a release of the business cooperation contract. So how do you hire doctors to trust me on a thousand and a half kuna? If we have a problem under the existing law, those who are retired can't be hired by the state inspectorate, you can't hire them. So... the springs, the co-operation, the people won't, why, I'm afraid to think why they won't, fear me. I'm afraid of the worst scenario, it's obstruction. And today it's fear, I'm convinced it's not, but fear, man does a script in life. And today, I'm convinced, he was a radiologist from Firula Split State Hospital in Vrgorec because local administration, self-government, cities, counties can't handle it. It's a non-religious order. I waited, I read an open letter from the mayor, your former parliamentary representative, so it's amazing that letter. True talk, non verba means work. Unbelievable. So please, people's health, availability, I'm not telling you now, I'm appeal to everyone, don't politicize. Today there was a radiologist from the state hospital to do what can't be done by the founder and owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14906	Thank you. This is what we're done with the replicas. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14907	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister and Assistant Minister, MPs and MPs. The fact is, and it's really so, it's not easy being a health minister. It is not easy in the Republic of Croatia as it is not easy today to be a health minister in neither the United States nor the United Kingdom, nor France. This system is really being crucified today between various interests, desires and objective needs and opportunities that society has. This health system, i.e. Croatian health care, currently numbers about 73,000 people who work together in this system and on this side there are, have been constantly implemented, implemented and implemented reforms will be carried out and the system will in some way be crucified between the objective needs of people for health and for a quality health service and even the possibility of achieving this service, given the opportunities that society can actually create. When it comes to this strategy, which is here before us, it is called the National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020, it is even an eight-year period, a very long period. I would agree with what academic Rainer noticed, as in most of the 275 pages, in fact, the content of this report is a statistical basis for the analysis of the situation, that is exactly how academic Rainer said, and that 26 pages of this document make the content of some vision and possible proposals that could be done over the next eight years. I would also mention something that began to occur to me, actually establishing the current Ministry of Health actually personally, I don't think it's good, and it's not that important, but it points to some trend, which is the very change of name from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Health, I mean from the very beginning. Even the World Health Organization is not called the World Health Organization but is called the World Health Organization and the Minister of Health is, in fact, a minister who manages the health system. Health is the primary right and, in some ways, the guaranteed human right of every man. I can influence him the most about my health. There is a health system that will determine certain measures that my health will improve or treat at some point, but my health is my personal right. Well, then, the question of the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health. I say again, even the World Health Organization is not a global organisation of health because health is the personal right of every individual. No one can forbid anyone to eat and smoke a lot, no one can forbid it. And that he's moving a little bit or he's moving a lot and he's eating a little bit and he's watching his life habits. So the concept itself is important, which is not more or less consistent with some nomenclature, which is relatively rare in any country in the world, in which way it actually defines the role that the minister and the current government have imagined where it would actually be the place of the ministry. I'm sorry there's no minister right now, but there's an assistant who's had more than a decade of experience in the health system, so she'll hopefully tell him what I actually wanted to mention. We who work in it could talk forever, but a few topics that no one has touched, so I'm going to try to touch them. First, the question of school medicine. Most of us here when we were kids and we went to school we went to a doctor of school medicine. They existed and worked in general practice at the time. Some years, this school medicine was extracted from the primary health care system and transferred to prevention. Today, school medicine exists nominally, but it only performs preventive checks. And our children of school age are condemned or directed to go to the waiting room where we sit, but most of these waiters fill their grandparents, our grandparents and together with them for their throats, so the kids came most often because of their throats, and grandparents are sitting down because of their chronic therapy and health problems, and school medicine specialists today are just doing prevention. I think it would be much happier if school medicine stayed to do primary health care for children of school age. It's something that this strategy doesn't mention or anyone has mentioned so far, but one light motive for thinking. Second of all, as far as health care is concerned. Health homes have been systematically dying since the mid-1990s. The home of health was slowly privatized by general practice, dentistry, laboratories, orthodontics. Most of the primary gynaecological hospitals. Today, health homes remain in the rule, have only well teamed up in their administrative capacities, which mostly have nothing to do. So, they've got a strong administration, they've got executives, they've got deputies, they've got some accounting chiefs. This is what the home of health actually has today and a whole series of tenants in various forms and have remained the source of home health income. As a rule, today is a patronage service, and until recently it was an emergency medical emergency. This is what I'm saying for most people who aren't actually referred to as health care homes. And that's your home of health. Earlier, the previous minister started a reform of emergency medical care. In my opinion, and at that time, it was my opinion that this whole idea of redesigning emergency medical care was completely wrong and that it did not contribute to any quality. And what's done? So, an isolated emergency medical care system from the health care home. The homes of health remained a sanity transport. The emergency medical care system is set up separately with the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute and the newly formed 21 County Emergency Medicine Office, which now has 21 directors in each county. New buildings, new systems, new administration. He's partly relying on the administration. The new entanglements actually happened. And this is how these little homes of health were left without the emergency that belonged to them. And then I thought and now I think we actually had four quality emergency medical facilities. It's a four-large regional state centre. It is Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split. In other smaller counties and spaces, the ambulance worked on God's help. And now I think that this entire emergency system was to be formed around those four regional centres, not to set up a 21st county office. It would be sufficient to establish 4 regional vertebral establishments that would already be existing emergency medical facilities. That would be a much better solution when it comes to the E.R. Introducing medicine into primary medicine as you know, if you've ever experienced an injury at work. And that's what's happened over the past few years. If you have suffered an injury at work then your treatment and the application is made you are then falling, your general practice in this case regarding this injury or illness at work is no longer your doctor of general practice but is a specialist in medical work with which your employer has a contract. There are countless cases in small places among employees of larger systems that the contracted specialists are no longer in their place. All over Slavonia, large companies have been contracted by specialists in the city of Osijek. In all of northwestern Croatia, they agreed in the city of Zagreb. These people too, when they need a manual or a check-up with that doctor, have to get in the car, get on the bus and travel to that doctor. There was a problem and people were wondering why it happened to them in the first place. They don't understand what we wanted to do with systematic, systematic measures, but these people found themselves actually employees of the HV, employees of the MUP. There are a whole range of HT employees, INA workers at gas stations who live and work in smaller places. It happened to them that suddenly these some of their doctors of medicine work God knows where or knows who or what it is, never heard or heard and must travel for an hour, an hour and a half, two, some unknown man. The whole system, and on the other hand, specialists in medical work got one job that they never did, and they had enough before. And we can read about the problems that caused it. When it comes to the hospital system in the secondary hospital health care system, this system has never been more developed. So today he's on one level he's never reached before. Today, the hospital system is far the most developed, the most sophisticated, the best quality when it comes to standards. But on the other hand, patients have never been more dissatisfied than they are today. In a way, it's like there's a noise between patients and that health system, some noise in communication, some channel that's been disrupted. It's not a question of some government, it's a matter of common health policy. The whole system is now, which are about the positions. The doctor is now more accessible to the patient than he has ever been and is becoming more and more difficult to get any service from the doctor. And on the other hand, doctors have more work to do than ever. And there have been some systemic errors, some systemic mistakes, some systematic misunderstandings that are the question of how to remove them. I would say one of the more important reasons why it came to this is that on the one hand the work of the entire health system is independently at which level limited by some financial framework that has been more tight today than it has ever been, and on the other hand health rights and declared needs are greater than they have ever been and are not in any way limited. At this point our health system is one of the very rare ones that has in no way defined any package in any form. Sooner or later, someone's gonna have to set up a frame somewhere. As far as strategic health problems are concerned. So, specifically related to this strategy. Here I would also mention one, so what I do not agree with in this text is one example, which says that a significant share of the protection that should be provided on primary protection is passed on to the secondary because doctors in primary health care are paid by the number of patients per year and there is little competition among healthcare providers. I don't think that's a reason at all. Thus, this system of chieftains is not at all the reason for the increasing proportion of patients in secondary health care. The basic reason, therefore, is that this problem in communication and is somewhat reduced in confidence, since both the doctor and the patient’s relationship is based on trust. And that trust in man and in that system is reduced and people want more and more, people are looking for more and more. People have available information about an increasing number of health options.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14908	It's a good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14909	As far as this strategy is concerned, we will be very abstentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14910	Thank you, too. We've got six lines reported. First responds Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14911	Dear Mr. Vice President, I have two, three things to say. One thing, I must say, is that what I said first in my performance is true, and what my colleague Djurovic said before is not true. So there are no 26 pages because there is probably a mistake in that they have very well-intentioned swat analysis how well Croatian there is beautifully written in the vision. Swat analysis is not a vision, for the rest of us who want to speak Croatian to translate, so swat is a shortcut of English 4 words that mean strength, weakness, possibility and threats in Croatian. So these are the elements of the analysis, just one summary of the analysis. It is certainly not a vision, therefore, but a summary of all that has been said on the preceding 300 pages. So I'm staying with my claim that 15 pages, possibly well-intentioned with a lot of heart, might be called something that looks into the future. I agree completely with what the honourable representative Djurovic said about the basket. Unfortunately, there is no defined basket of services here, and this is a key problem because it is continuously guaranteed to Croatian citizens and indirectly to this document, and it is doubtless that everything and everything will be guaranteed directly in public appearances. Everything in the world exists to ad libitum, now I'm going to use it to see that it's very nice to use foreign words, so I'm going to say, so there's a problem. It is claimed that everyone has the right to everything, and of course in real life it is never possible, so it is correct, fair, etc. define that basket of services that are simply not defined, and this shows that it will not be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14912	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. I'd like to ask my fellow MPs and MPs, I think we all have tiles, to make it easier to spot. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14913	Well, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14914	Yeah, yeah. I mean, in the future, it's easier to see.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14915	Yeah, yeah. I thought it was a replica, the answer's on the line, so I didn't realize if it's also for lifting. So, academic Rainer, yeah, I mean, I've been growing up and we've been trying really benevolently to interpret those pages, and I wouldn't want to owe it. But as for that definition of some framework of those possibilities, I think sooner or later, we're all aware that there are no internal reserves of the system. The simple system is strained to its maximum limits. There are therefore no significant resources within the system. And I think you can count the sheets, you can reduce the number of maids, you can try to save in public procurement on a device, but all these measures can't change the real fact, at least from my point of view that you're going to have to go to the definition of some frameworks that don't exist today in any way. It would be good if Croatian society were rich enough and it could go on like that, but for example with this reduction in health contributions from 15% to 13% and with another 1% announcement it is absolutely clear that there is no, that this story is finished and that I do not see it, it is really not clear to me why the minister did not mention such guidelines in this vision, because it is clear that this must happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14916	Thank you. Next replica, counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14917	Yes, my colleague Djurovic is exactly the old saying, "How much money is so music." And in health care. You said well 15 and 13, but this strategy doesn't say that there will be a 12% contribution to health insurance. It is interesting if this is already a strategy from 2012 to 2020 not to write such important information. But it says that it will be as counterpart Milinovic said the burden transferred to say the back of the patients. It is the same for you, fellow Djurovic, as we had previously watched, we could watch Dinam matches in the Champions League at HRT on 2nd program, and now we can't. In order to be able to watch it, it's necessary to pay off some kind of MAX TV to have the right to watch. So we also introduced additional insurance to achieve the same health care service that we had and without that supplemental before, the one based on basic health insurance. It was at the time of Mr Milinovic's health reform. So interesting is the model and comparison of these models with this Croatian TV and this MAX TV. As for the homes of health you've been talking about, you're right, and I'd call it a senseless destruction and oppression, a real crime towards the role of a home of health as a primary health care provider. And then to prove that I also personally worked for 5 years in the House of Health in general practice, it doesn't matter where, the House of Health that had the Hygiene-Epidemiological Service, the emergency reception, the Department of Child Protection and those school ages, then the Department of Protection of Women with Birth, Stationary, the Service of General Medicine and the Service of Diagnosis. Where could we find such a home of health in Croatia today? Nowhere. And yet Andrija Printar stood up and actually to say his genius was that this is exactly the kind of home of health, this primary health care being the bearer of the entire nation's health.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14918	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14919	Thank you. I agree with your diagnosis that the process of dying of homes of health is irreversible or irreversible and that nothing can bring back that wheel of history as it happened backwards. That's my opinion, maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think he can. Health homes were held as stronger institutions only in those areas where, due to the absence, the hospital was the only one left as a backbone. These are the areas of Imotska krajina, the area of Sinjska krajina, I do not know Metković. There are such areas where there is simply no resources of secondary health care nearby. There are only homes of health play the role of more or less health homes in this current system as it is complicated to end a career and I think that this process is more or less irreversible and that it will not bring it back to anything, and this national strategy itself actually points to the establishment of group practices and will probably respond in time to some group practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14920	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14921	Thank you. Col. Djurovic pointed out a few things that had not been discussed so far, so I'm going to ask Mr. Minister to pay a little attention to that because he wasn't in there at the moment. It was the problem of school medicine and the home of health was now talked about. And I'd point out some other things that we don't find in the strategy that Mr. Minister would be good at taking care of, too. Although he said fellow Reiner would not enter the strategy but you announced that he could enter action plans. The problem of Paliatical Care is too weakly highlighted in this and very important, therefore, a very important topic that will also be particularly apostropheeded by EU accession. Then the problem of orthodontics particularly expressed in the area of Slavonia and Baranja where we have a big problem that we haven't been approved for years, for the first time, specializations from orthodontics were not approved at all, then they are now approved but again according to that old model. The minister approves, and HZZO says there's no funds for them. And the other problem that happens about orthodontics is that we have only one or maybe two mentors at the University of Stomatology who need to accept mentorship over all approved specializations, and that is to say in simple language our doctors from Slavonia and Baranja come and apply to mentors having full understanding of his overcrowding. He says listen, you'll come to me on the order of 2016 and his specialization simply fails. There's got to be something to do with that problem, because right now in the city of Osijek, we have a situation that we have five orthodontists of which two of them are already around 65 years old, the third one's 63 years old and we don't have any specialists currently in progress. And we'll have a situation in two years that we won't have orthodontists. It's not an emergency that we're going to be particularly likely through some other replicas about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14922	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Đurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14923	I'll look back on what you were saying, and that's a palitative one. We have an excellent example of St. Rafael in Strmac, for example, which was made by private means, saved one building from collapse and arranged a number of beds, so all together this whole investment didn't cost a single priestly order to enter one such investment. I'd just like to say one more thing. Where are we going? Here's the minister from the rib, I was talking noise in communications, where the system falls? The system's dropping on the Rebr on the E.R. counters. On Rebr on the emergency orders there are a total of two counters, in Požega hospital... also two counters that are 10 times smaller. It stands on the Rebr because of the failure of the administration, instead of having 10 tents on the Rebr, there are two tents on which finds are issued and take orders and where people wait for hours to order for a service. After waiting three hours on those two counters in one sub-basement on the ground floor of the ribs, then someone else tells him after those few hours of waiting to come in order I don't know when of course. And that's our problem. It is no longer a question of what kind of service will follow. The service will be top-notch, but we fell in that relationship with the man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14924	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleague Djurovic about the World Health Organization and Health and by definition of the World Health Organization "Health is a complete mental, physical and social well-being". And now let's try to reflect that into our reality what social well-being is in our society. That's very clear. People are on difficult existential occasions really very difficult unemployment not to tell all the information that is known and told. What's going on under these circumstances? We read in every place depression is on the rise. All statistical analyses say that, consumption of antidepressants is growing. It's undeniable, it's facts. I'm not talking about being sick. Any one who comes to such an occasion is known to the doctor immediately. And now look at the one from the primary health care that counterpart Lesar was talking about, he must get it all into those frames all in those frames that are prescribed by HZZ and it's really hard. That's certainly one increase in cost. And that's why there's a basis for this thinking about how much funding is provided for as long as it takes. That we don't talk about what technology 10% a year it's known technology parameters 10% a year go, life span grows. So that's all the stuff that needs to be considered. And the third thing you said about patient dissatisfaction. I wouldn't agree with you if they were so unhappy because people are generally in one difficult state and then they come to a doctor sickly and then... But I ask the question, what is the satisfaction of those who provide services to these users? So we see what happens to nurses, etc. And the doctors also raised their voice. So that's how I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14926	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. A colleague, Đurović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14927	Representative Milinkovic, I think that the Croatian man is mostly sick, but Croatian society is sick and according to all economic, social, social indicators and the Croatian state is seriously ill that we can take a picture of a media cut ourselves, which shows us what are the topics that occupy Croatian society, which are the problems surrounding Croatian society. As for the problem in primary, I said first there was a noise in communication, a misunderstanding between them and us and their patients and doctors, and that noise in communication has been deepening through other times. Yeah, people are unhappy not thinking it's some consequence or guilt of a particular person it's a single systemic eror one systematic deformity that's been going on for a long time. They blame us, we blame them all together, presses the real situation as it is. Where there's also one systemic problem in which you're partly talking about a vision it's so-called. clinical guidance. Clinical guidelines are mentioned today around.... We remember 12 years ago that the former Minister of Health or Health then tried to give clinical guidance to the Ministry of Health, but it never came to life as something that would allow you as a doctor and me to have the system behind us in our decisions. And the waist, but the system. And if we're going to talk as doctors what's the problem and the doctor, now to get back to the doctor's position, his problem is that he doesn't have any protection for you, and there's no Ministry behind him, no system, no one. And you feel that problem, too, and all the doctors working in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14928	Thank you. Next replica Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Đurović you said earlier, mentioning specialists in school medicine that actually doctors deal more with prevention than they do with curatives. This is true and it is regrettable, however, it is the result of a negative reform that was before, which certainly had a negative effect on the end-user, i.e. on the school child, and certainly is not satisfied with both school medical specialists and end-users, children, or parents. At the same time, however, we have 160 specialists of school medicine who usually spend 20% of their working hours from school to school to make... spines, visions, preventive lectures, etc., from school to school. However, I wonder if it is necessary to finish medical school, even specialization to educate on the knowledge of health, etc., when schooling is possible for much less money. And here I agree with you because actually school kids turn out to be the only population that doesn't have integrated health care because family conducts curatives, and school medicine specialists carry out prevention. So I'm sure there's something to be done here. But here you can already see some of the proposed measures in the draft strategy that would strengthen human resources in health care are precisely defining, competence and enabling tasks to be taken according to the higher level of education achieved by healthcare professionals. Therefore, in this strategy I already see one step of improvement for such a problem as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14930	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Col. Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14931	Thank you. She's partly on the trail of what I think. I think the school medicine thing happened more or less by accident at one point. Family medicine was established, and they just turned out to be people, the whole specialization turned out and what you're going to do, you're going to be a prevention. I think more or less it happened that way and in some ways it's that specialization and those people are forgotten, it's one valuable resource of people. And I repeat, we who have children of school age, and I think a good part of the parents would prefer that their children go to school dispensers and that their health is primarily dealt with by school medicine doctors than they do with the older population sitting in hospitals of general medicine. But it's one topic that's simply been forgotten since this school medicine was shut down, and the prevention that you say is part of the prevention they've been doing before while they've been doing primary work for the school population, and part of the prevention is certain. This is now being complemented by the other part of the strategy, as already mentioned, and this is also mentioned whether the possibility of transferring power from the doctor to better educated medical staff is more or more highly educated. But we have more or less in the health system exactly different processes that even more powers are passed on to doctors even though doctors don't want it, so sometimes the sisters were giving injections and they were taking blood, putting on catheters. And all of a sudden, it becomes an I.V. issue of whether or not it's allowed to do more sisters. We have more and more educated sisters, and the increasingly reduced approach to the relationship between doctors and sisters and doctors does not potentiate. There are other relationships that make it more potent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14932	Thank you. And the last replica, Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14933	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Djurovic, I agree with you on the ministry's name. According to the minister's words, it was the first reform of the Croatian health system, to change the name of the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Health. I think no country is around, there is Serbia, I think only Serbia has a Ministry of Health. It was sort of, as the minister said, the first reform. The second is structural reform. Be careful, it was actually underestimating to other colleagues in the government, says the first structural reform of this government is a united public procurement, and when we went to a united public procurement in the City of Zagreb where a third of the budget is spent then the loudest opposition to it was today's current health minister, Mr. Rajko Ostojić. Remember, and this book again says no to lying, that's good. I'll read it to you, says the reform started in 2008 has led to the fact that unpaid health institutions' obligations have been reduced. So this is a great document, not just to lie. And remember the promise, I agree with you concerning the homes of health, they are irrevocable. And I'm saying now and I've spoken as a minister of health we can never return to the function they were in, but we've partly restored the dignity of our homes of health. Remember the Minister's words, as soon as we arrive for the first three months, we will return home to health at the time of the Andrija Press. We have partly restored the dignity of health homes and it is evident that some colleagues are returning from concessions to health homes and different ways of financing health homes. Emergency medical care and the minister wanted to derogate it at the beginning, the first days of his term of office, and here he writes emergency medical reform is a thorough, coordinated, reorganisation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14934	Time fellow Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14935	The Constitution guarantees every resident equal availability. Four major regional centers had emergency medical services 24 hours a day in smaller areas...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14936	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14937	What the minister doesn't understand, the less environments were on alert, so you're calling for a heart attack, so you're waiting for the doctor from home to come. It's gone now, and that's why I think it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14938	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Col. Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14939	I can say my opinion, which is that Minister Milinovic certainly was a surprisingly good minister, better than I expected, indeed. But also as far as the current minister is concerned, I didn't want to go into financial aspects at all, he's more concerned with any strategic topics, but if it's about finances, I think the minister's got an irreversible chess mat with a reduction in contributions and there's no chance of any of them coming out of that mate who's made a contribution reduction in these conditions. God forbid he's, he's really a wizard who's gonna make it out of less, but I think it rarely happens in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14940	Thank you. Further for discussion on behalf of SDP Representatives Club Biljana Borzana. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a document that we've never had in the House before, and I have to admit, I'm sorry that there's been so much discussion today about how many pages there are and how much analysis. I don't see what the big deal is. I think here are the ones who criticized it today that they were next to Albert Einstein when he designed that genius E=MC squared to tell you what three letters, one figure, is the trick. You write 150 pages, and we'll appreciate what you've come up with. So it's not about how long a document should be. Do you know how much the EU Health Strategy is? 12 pages. So, if it could have been a strategy of the entire European Union on page 12, I don't see what the problem is now if this Croatian Health Strategy is on page 26, 15 or 19. I think it's a valuable document that contains for all of us who deal with health care a lot of valuable data. And I think it's medical for me to express myself that he's going to make a diagnosis, that is, determine treatment if we haven't made a proper diagnosis and take a good history. So, surely, facing all data on Croatian health care is necessary in order to decide later on how to say therapy. Despite the scope, this is still about a single framework document. So it's impossible for the strategy to write absolutely everything. It is not a sacred letter, subject to changes, and in the end I do not see any reason procedurally why MPs who have observations have not given amendments to which we will discuss in the Assembly and possibly respect and extend the strategy with some more data. What I think is also important in this strategy is that it leaves behind a lasting written trail which is also unusual for our health care, because here we can only remember the last health reform presented by slides that no one has ever seen or remembered what it says, so now no one can even say whether this reform has succeeded or not, or where it has failed and how much it has succeeded. Here remains a written clue, remains the possibility and now critics, but also at the end of the term. Criticists talking about the lack of concrete solutions in the strategy. Well, here's what I'm going to do. Isn't it very specific when it says in the strategy that hospital directors won't be able to accumulate new three, five or eight million kunas of long losses every month and act by the system I don't care if it's not mine, it's state. The strategy therefore clearly states that personal responsibility for poor financial operations will be introduced. It's really a very clear thing to me and a very clear message to those who run hospitals today. Or, for example, in the Strategy, we commit ourselves to a percentage increase in the share of preventive programmes. If more prevention funds are not provided in the budgets by the end of the term of office, it will be clear to everyone that in that part we have not done God knows what. The health system is an extremely complex system and I think it is precisely the biggest challenge that new opportunities and progress in technology from day to day require ever greater financial resources and we are in an increasingly difficult situation. However, I do not think the Minister of Croatian Health should be David Copperfield in order to come up with ways to get out of this situation. I still think that by smart planning and behavior in a way that if I run a hospital or a health care home, it's from all of us and not the state and I don't care what happens when I'm gone, when my term is over. So that a very smart redistribution of money can be done by doing a lot of good in Croatian health care. The whole situation in a bad way contributes to the fact that the increase in health prices has increased by 42 percent compared to 2005 and it is also very sad that only 35% of the citizens who pay in the budget care for the other 65%. So, a very unfavourable relationship. Also, what was found in health care huge debts to be paid back, but of course maintaining a constant quality is also a bad circumstance. But again, I don't think it's possible to make the system any neater. We left Croatia far better than we found it and I have no doubt that this will happen now. There are other examples. Let's say when you look at very interesting tables and curves that can be seen in this strategy, in that analytical part. For example, the expenditure on HZZO employees in the term of Racan's government has a straight line. Therefore, there is no increase in consumption, so that from the moment HDZ regains power in the country, that curve would have gone uphill. So, we're facing huge staff expenditures because I really believe there's someone who's been going to HZZO lately could have seen that two, three officials are sitting down in the offices and many are wondering what they're doing there. Also, the consumption of recipes, for example. When you look at the same very stable curve in the mandate from 2000 to 2004 and then a steep increase, so let's say in 2000 we spent 29 million recipes and 2011. Fifty million. Now that you multiply that each recipe is not only worth the printed paper but that it contains a medicine worth perhaps 12, perhaps 300, and perhaps 2,000 kuna, then it is clear to all how much spending is in Croatian health. In my strategy, in a very realistic and politically unencumbered way, we are talking about previous reforms, and these are the conclusions: ineffectiveness in the business of the health system has not been resolved, the problem of corruption has been resolved, the supplementary insurance system is achieving a deficit. The general health system is not financed on a sustainable basis and is in a permanent deficit. So when you read it, it's really clear to everyone what kind of situation we're in. I would refer to some more information about prevention, given that it is something that I often talk about and what I'm interested in because we know that one kuna invested in prevention carries eight or ten kunas that return to the budget. So when we see that 20% of men and 12% of women have poor eating habits, that 60% of men and 50% of women have overweight, that almost 30% of adults smoke, that the younger age of smokers, that the expected duration of life in Croatia is among the lower in the EU, then it is clear that the prevention of so far was not enough. However, this government, i.e. the ministry, has sent a very clear message because in the last budget of this year, the amount of financial resources to prevent chronic malignancies, chronic and infectious diseases and prevention of addiction is approximately doubled in 2012. Also, I think that space is still there, not to think, but obviously, we in Croatia can also see from this strategy in prevention we invest 0.88% of the budget, and on average the EU is 2.68%. So we are far behind, and there will be room for additional funds by increasing our GDP, i.e. by increasing the budget. So, we sent a clear message in numbers, in money, and we didn't express that prevention is important, that we go back to the printer's principles only at the declarative level, and then when it comes to money then the funds shrink. So let's say I remind you in the 2011 Budget, so in the term of office last government funds for preventing obesity are reduced in rebalancing by half. So what I think is extremely important in this strategy is that some colleagues have already mentioned it, and that is what we have defined in the strategy for strengthening human resources. I believe that health workers, despite everything that they have been told, and I'm going to say this little under quotes, which has been done to them in the last 20 years since the reforms, from the reduction of funds, from changes like these and such, they've really been stoic and maintained the quality of the system so that our citizens can, in the end, be satisfied, that they're used to a very quality service that I'd actually said and disproportionate to the economic situation in Croatia. So the health care service is still holding on to one envious level. By joining the EU, we could complicate an additional matter with health care personnel because of course we know there are countries that have far better salaries for healthcare professionals and that will certainly be bait and strategy mentioning the problem. So it's registered and in that sense it'll definitely be taken under control in time. Also, the system's information on this was relatively small today. It's an extremely important thing. Here we have recently in the media a lot of articles about how some doctors are escrowing work. Is it so or not so certain that quality information can be checked and seen who does what, how much he does, and thus can also introduce a fair system of rewarding, or punishment. Also, information is of course extremely important because it makes health care more accessible to the patient and reduces the possibility of corruption to a far lower level. So there are some other things that I think are extremely positive in the strategy, which is the establishment of group practices because we know that ever since the health homes were destroyed, the situation in primary health care has been very difficult. Therefore, there can be a significant increase in the efficiency and quality of work through group practices. Then an emphasis on better use of hospitals. It was also mentioned that some hospitals, especially small ones, have a situation and I know that they have a diagnostic that they don't use at all while clinical hospital centres burdened themselves with making long waiting lists. So this is certain if, according to the strategy, a regional hospital network association occurs and these problems can therefore be solved. Also, including units of local self-government must be far more active and intense than so far, especially where islands, rural areas and the like are. Therefore, local self-government units can make their contribution to a better quality health service. The aim of all of us who deal with health care is to believe all the options in the Assembly not only ruling but also the opposition is a satisfied patient who has been examined and treated according to the most modern, state-of-the-art methods by satisfied healthcare professionals. Finally, I consider the most important last sentence in the strategy, which reads: "When all the participants in the health care system, providers and healthcare users assume responsibility for their actions and behaviour, a key prerequisite will be created for achieving the vision of health care that we really want by 2020." Well, I'd like to finish my presentation with a natural note that the SDP club will support this proposed strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14942	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused 5 replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14943	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I say again I should just read this document, and I haven't read it, I've studied it. Another truth, what you said at the time of Racan's government that there was no upward curve regarding the costs of the Croatian health system is probably correct, it seems to me that it is correct, but it is not only the only period, but in this document it says from 2008 to 2010, so in the mandate of the past government, the share of the total expenditure on health care in Croatia has not changed and amounts to 7.76% of GDP. So, it wasn't just in Racan's government, and this data further tells us that the Croatian health system in the past 4 years has been stable in times of crisis and recession, and what's important is rare, if not the only one in Europe we haven't made any new obligations to actually these elections, or until 01.01 last year. You say being a minister is hard. Let's see how much the minister lacks funds. 2% of the contributions are 2.5 billion kuna. Do we agree? It is. 900 million kuna directly from the budget is 3 billion and 400 and its own revenues are reduced by 600 million. It's 4 billion kuna missing, the minister's not easy, we have to help him. I agree. You say hospital directors won't be able to, won't be allowed and won't be able to raise new debts. They're unfortunately doomed to it. Here's the minister's name. I demand that the director of Osijek's hospital be released next week. He appointed the principal, by law, if the director creates new debts, he must be relieved. In Osijek, between 7 million and 10 million kunas of new debt are created monthly, not new liabilities, but a new debt. We agree here and with HZZO says most of the above reason is HZZO is operating with a loss except for 2009 to 2011. What? ... And by the time Mr. Cain came forward, it's interesting why this strategy is not being talked about by the Pula Hospital because you canceled the tender for building a Pula hospital. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14944	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14945	Now, Mr. Milinovic, let me know about the nuance of the Osijek Hospital at the moment what's better than you are. So in Osijek, for example, for years it's seven times the bill for water than in a river that's similar to size, and no one has ever wondered why that is. So if it were a thousand or two kuna bill for you, you would surely ask your neighbor how much he has an account and if you have a similar amount of people in the household it would certainly be clear to you that something is wrong if your account is seven times larger. So the problem with this business so far is that simply because it's not out of my pocket, it's going to be the minister after and so on, it's going to give me the debt I can do, or I don't have to give myself the effort to think about. Osijek's hospital has accumulated five new million debts each month in the past term, and now it's about a million to a half, with the minister reducing the limit by another 2.5 million a month. If that reduction hadn't happened, the Osijek Hospital would have begun to pay back the debts left by the former government. She reduced her debt because someone started thinking about how to run a hospital. Why the money leaks where it doesn't need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14946	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of distinguished MPs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14947	In her discussion, a colleague spoke among other things about the cancer of our health system’s wounds on huge debts, and she often felt that she needed to be saved on patients. Then it's not good health care. Good health is one that strengthens the use of the system and prevents all abuses as well as the backbone of your debate. But I will mention here those who speak about what with these debts should ask them, and also the former minister, how could this happen? How could he sign a collective contract and burden a government that has come since 1.1.2013 in its time that burdens the system for a billion kuna only for wages? Here's an example for you at Zadar Hospital. Minor in 2011 over 15 million in 2012 12 million. What did the inspection find? Disrespect of obligations under the contract with the Bureau. There are no release letters often for patients, there are frequently violations of regulations and general acts, 7 workers employed without the consent of the minister himself, in certain departments medicines are supplied not to patients but to hospital departments and there is no return to hospital pharmacy. And the crown or suma sumarum of everything was established a bill of 38 million kuna HZZO and the inspection is ours to have the bases for 32 million but no for 6 million. Where are your millions? So what I'm talking about, and as Mr. Minister is saying, and as you colleagues say, what the strategy is, let me see what the problem is, so we have to go from that analysis to see what our strategy is. Unfortunately, in the strategy, we have to worry about what you said earlier to combat all possible abuses and not to leak money where it shouldn't go and that it leaks money to patients whose money is intended.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14948	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14949	It's certainly not the first time this has happened to us, so it's all already been seen. We had a situation in our term of office in 2000 until 2003 that we actually had such a hot casserole out of the fire and now we're doing the same thing. For what we are not guilty now we must correct and maintain quality. So that's what's extremely difficult. However, I would not often like to be heard from Slavonia, I would not want to be of those who pay but rather want and I am optimistic and I think it can be because in the end only a general data which is not so much for health care tied to GDP was when the SDP with its partners came to power in 2000 was minus 0.9 and at the departure after the end of 2003 was plus 5%. So until GDP is increased and the budget is difficult, but in any case it is not impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14950	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Borzan would be good for you, but also for Mrs Antičević and for everyone else to focus on the agenda, which is the National Health Strategy for the next 8 years that we don't spend that much time on financial business analyses in the previous one we'll probably do under some other point of the agenda. But, Comrade Borzan, I hope you're listening to me and will answer me. My colleague Milinovic, can I have you, can you stop my time? I'm talking to my colleague Borzan and you. So I'm asking you to extend the time I haven't said anything in three minutes. So, colleagues, Borzan, you have now said at one point, replicating your colleague Anticevic as you come from Slavonia and where votes often come from, that's right. And you're saying we're poor people who warn about something that's wrong. I'll go back to strategy. Poor of the basic and pre-election promises to the Kukurik coalition was in plan 9 health for all was for example. What I've already mentioned is palatable concern, creating a 4 regional center for palatable medicine. Well, here's a good reason, since you're coming from Osijek, that we're from the same neighborhood because then it's all in our best interest to see what's happening now with these plans here and in the strategy for the next eight years. Not only is there not a lot of words about the palitative care but I don't know if you know that in 1.8 this year HZZO has decreed that it will fund clinics for palitative care in the House of Health Zagreb, in the House of Health of Rijeka and in the House of Health of Pazin, and that the House of Health is Osijek, which has already had since 1.4.2020. Split was left out, Osijek was left out of co-financing. He got Zagreb, he got Rijeka and he got Pazin by accident or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14952	Thank you very much. And the extended time is up. ... Now we'll hear the answer to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14953	So just for a little while, my colleague Buric, you mention that we are colleagues Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović and I have strayed from the topic, but finances are definitely in health care as you know the starting point for everyone. So if we're talking about the financial situation, it's definitely very important. And as for palitative concerns, of course, there is a principled affection for it, but you are as impatient as I am, the mandate is for four years, and hopefully longer this government, so there will be time to achieve it. ... It won't be any shorter. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's why the strategy is at least until 2020, and then we'll be working on a new one. So there's still a lot that can be done in the mandate, it doesn't have to be in the first six months all of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14954	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the distinguished MPs, Mrs. Komarić Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14955	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, what little of us are left. I see that we would all rather discuss actually the state of health at this point and in recent years, few of us are actually holding on to that part even though you're all criticizing very little, 15 pages, but few who actually talked about it. Comrade Borzan, you mentioned prevention in your debate in one section. I couldn't agree more with you. I think the key to saving is health care prevention. In order for prevention to be actually carried out, it is necessary to give greater importance to primary health care. You mentioned and you noticed very well that they are forming and potentiating the formation of group practices which reminds me of primary health care centers when to a large extent in primary health care everything that is now burdening our hospital system that we all know together is the most expensive variant when we have cardiologists, specialists treating pressure. Today, pressure is no longer treated in primary health care rather than in cardiologists or nephrologists. So we would strengthen primary health care in all segments, there was mentioned school medicine, pediatrics, gynaecology, there used to be ambulatory internals, there used to be surgery in primary health care, and I personally think that at that point our system would have great savings, because hospital treatment and treatment in specialists is the most expensive. And once such a decision is made, and I think this strategy is headed towards primary health care, on several occasions it is mentioned, then this hospital system will not cramp or the health system will not choke in major losses and problems. Another sentence, prevention, can be seen from this that our children are getting fatter, that they are smoking more and more, and in this sense I welcome that the Ministry of Health along with the Ministry of Education, Education and Sports is currently starting health education in primary schools, which is therefore going towards prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14956	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14957	My colleagues agree completely with you. I'm just going to give one piece of information that I'm not in my debate, I thought she told me. During 2010, 39% less preventive systemic checks were carried out compared to 2009, and even 94% less compared to 1990. When I found that information, when I faced it, it was devastating. So, we got confused, and in the meantime, we ruined a lot of what was good, and there was a lot of new things going on that didn't work out. Here's the thing. Now's our chance to fix the wrong shit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14958	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Borzan, you were talking about the amount, I wouldn't repeat it again, as many pages as I think it is and 20 is somewhere, that's what the minister said, but the ratio in any case falls into the eyes, how much analysis of the state and the therapy or as you said is so many pages. It's undeniable. I agree with you that good diagnosis is a fundamental prerequisite for therapy and therefore there is nothing wrong with searching for solutions in this matter. We witness daily in our business to make a diagnosis possible with this modern technology, and many times we are in therapeutic options very tight, limited, and it certainly frustrations us. I am also pleased to think of all health care like my colleague Comparić-Devčić and we are all at heart here, everyone in this assembly, and of course to us who are doing our job availability and quality. But we're always coming back, you see, it's done for that time, this is for that. You mentioned the time in 2000 to 2003, and I wouldn't want it to happen again, and these days it's rumored to repeat the work obligation, doctors were introduced. Let's be realistic, and let's remember, a work obligation, a reduced salary to nurses medically, and something similar is happening these days. The other thing I want to say, you're talking about prescription drugs, so the e-recept is in any case, everyone will admit that it has improved availability, of course and certain savings have been made in that part. But I spoke earlier in the replica of my colleague Đurovic that surely circumstances are both economic and social such that spending, as I said, is both antidepressants and all medicines needed and on the rise. That's what we have to bear in mind, these are the realities to which we have to as practitioners, as doctors to have.../The speaker excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14960	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the esteemed representative, Damir Kajin, I must express my grief that there are not even 20 MPs in the Chamber at this hour, and we all swear that this is very important, and we will all be very confident about it. Unfortunately, there's no TV transmission, so it probably had an impact on that. However, in any case, the next speaker will, on behalf of the IDS Club, be Mr Damir Cain's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14961	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. It should be changed urgently by this Rules of Procedure, which turns this Parliament into one theatre of absurdity. We started replicating ourselves inside the clubs. Indeed, those who survive will survive, they will talk, and that is why it is good for us to discuss the Health Strategy now. That's the first thing I want to say. Second, gentlemen, let's move on. Here on the side, where I found 116 to keep talking about gross social product, etc. How much for health care, among other things, is said to have been allocated for health per capita 1581 USA dollar. 2010. 1514 U.S. dollars. Clearly, this is among other consequences of the decline of this gross social product, but also the fact that contributions to wage health care paid by employers paid for some time, and workers are constantly reducing it, so here is the contribution from 15% to 13%, and then it is further stated that the reduction in the contribution rate for health insurance is an additional challenge for the financing of the health system, as less funds will therefore be added to the budget and will continue to be allocated to the health sector. However, to be clear, what may be most important is what we mentioned this morning. Linic's firing 20,000 people, and then he says he's saving about 2 billion. From school, there could be 9,000 people from science, 6000 people from health care, and about 2500 from the police. I don't know, I think it's brave enough, and I'm glad the minister has explained something before. But if that happens, we'll see how the public reacts. But first of all, I want to talk about the position of general hospitals operating in the territory of Croatia and also in the context of the prime minister or his steps out that Croatia has more hospitals or equal hospitals than 30 million Texas. Their position, I wanted to say something about this Texas but I won't. Their position means these general hospitals are painful. It depends on the financial power of the county, and these counties are currently rudely impoverished. But I have the impression that everything will change in Croatia, but it will not change the position of the county. That's it. Everything will change, but I'm afraid Croatia will not decentralisation. I'd like to make a mistake, but I think I'm right here. There is no former Health Minister Darko Milinovic here to just tell him that yesterday was the opening of an offer to build a general hospital in Pula. Two complete ZABA plus OTP offers have arrived together and Erste Banka, who simply offered herself, reported on the tender. The interest is 5% plus the euro libor. It is about 5.65% less than the amount owed to Croatia abroad when buying bonds. On the other hand, it is a 300 million kuna loan, and 300 million kuna should be financed by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Not as much as I want to believe, but I am almost convinced that this job will move relatively soon and that this one promise to build a general hospital in Pula will turn into a work. If anyone deserves that hospital, a good hospital deserves everyone, it's clear, everyone deserves hospitals. But then I guess that south of Istria or Istria deserves it, too. Because I have the impression that too much is given and too little is coming back. However, where is the underlying problem. So we're going back to that funding again. The budget of the County of Istria, let us take this example for 2012 amounted to about 395 million kuna. There are 107 million kunas of European Union funds for Kashtjun. Then in that amount, it's about 287 million kunas, but realistically when we refuse 80.3 million kunas, so on. Decentralised funds de facto County has 200 million kuna. On the other hand, Pula General Hospital has an income of 300 million kuna. It invoices a year 345 million kuna bills and permanently occurs that monthly loss of cca 2 million kuna at an annual level of around 20 million kuna. So, if we want to talk about the Health Strategy then let someone explain to me how someone with 287 million kunas as much as County Istrian Real 200, because here we have those 80 million decentralised healthcare funds, for education, for central care, for homes for older and powerless can monitor the general hospital system down in Pula that needs 345 million kuna per year. It's just absurd and I don't know or should really have those general hospitals like someone said before take it under me. Because if cities like Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek or Split had to finance clinical hospitals, I don't know how to spend it. It just wouldn't be possible or their county. The General Hospital in Pula has 1280 employees. General Hospital Pula after the Oilies I will say it is the largest collective by number of employees in the County of Istria such as the clinical hospital center in Rijeka perhaps even the first even bigger, third. Yeah, 2,000 people, so that's second place right behind 3. Maya. The same situation is also in Split, and above in Osijek probably the Clinical Hospital Centre Osijek has the highest number of employees. I said annual losses are about 20 and something million kuna. Last year, these restrictions were reduced, or this year, by 10% to all in Croatia, and the question is, how will this follow in the future. For that problem, everyone just knows. Ministers, known prime ministers or prime ministers of the former and present, however, mayors, council members, the county assembly, and citizens rightly expect the best possible protection. They don't expect it, they deserve it, they have a right to it. It's our responsibility. But on the other hand, it is clear from the 1514 dollars per capital for healthcare that we cannot have a system like one Slovenia or Austria, Germany, the United States, with all the efforts made by doctors, who make up medical staff, a simple system that is overstretched cannot be at the level of Austria, America I do not know Germany and even if I say Croatia has had better doctors. Secondly, once again when I look at this Health Development Strategy in Croatia, I see it first and foremost through opportunities at the General Hospital in Pula. The system I said was too tense, but I want to believe that the finance minister will first of all give the necessary agreement, namely the state guarantee that it can move relatively nearly into the construction of the General Hospital in Pula because it is for us a capital facility that could in some way withdraw some other investment. Here we have a whole series of data from the fact that I've been reading about the death of 9,000 people in Croatia, the life span of men is 73.5 years, in Sweden 79 years. Women, thank God they've lived 79.9 years, but it's the same 5.4 years lower than in Spain. So you live, which is fine, six years longer. I mean, it's okay. What is the problem of Croatia is this media age, there is an average of 41.5 years. Here we are in 8 high places in Europe, etc. I'm glad to have some other data on heart disease mortality, blood vessels. By mortality per county Istria is 14th in place of 21st Croatian County. Too bad there's no record of cancer in the county. Why? In the context of this unfortunate oil man, not the Oilman, but the PLOMIN pardon. Thank God we have the Oilman. When it comes to schizophrenia that Istria stands very well, at least we have these disorders. At least, I wouldn't always say when I look at some people around me, but here we are the best. Here, that's where we're best at. All in all, I think it's about one commendable report written on 110 pages, excuse me, 310 pages, and I think we're going to achieve some consensus and accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14962	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14963	Thank you very much. Here I am glad that you said it was a commendable document because I share an opinion with you because this document actually shows access, not content which is very important because this is a process that will develop over these years for the period for which this strategy has actually been done. There was no talk today about working medicine, so I'm going to say one more thing about working medicine, and before that, there's something else about health homes. I think we've all agreed here that health homes have actually become building managers, not some kind of health care services. In fact, this whole patronage if it's actually not connected to the institutions or the doctors of family medicine precisely because of the existence of this divided system. And now something else about working medicine because going to private medical work actually focused protection was no longer at work or on workers in work but began to actually shift to profit. And when you look at today 22 years later, despite the many documents we have signed, we are far from the health care that should have been and which was actually before the war. However, I am encouraged to just strengthen the human resources we see in this Health Strategy that this is one of the important priorities, and it is also envisaged to reorganise the structure and activities of health institutions by connecting health homes and family medicine doctors, etc. So there is one vertical and horizontal connection that will actually improve the state in which it is now. Because in the strategy, if you have read, you see that medical work as a primary level activity with its preventive activities must be part of a multidisciplinary team that will actually work on conservation and jobs, or the environment in which our workers are today. Because when you look at the conditions that our workers are working on today, from standing on their feet at reception desks that I can't sit on cash registers, etc. Therefore, I believe that this strategy will also be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14964	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the first time I've agreed with my colleague Caine, perhaps not the first, more than once, but it's about me agreeing with your claim to change the Rules of Procedure urgently. Right, I agree. And to restore the correction of an incorrect quote, you and I are in a past session, I have really changed a lot of them and I think that would give another charm to this debate anyway. But this one when there was a time when you were supposed to manifest yourself about it then you said it was the best. So I'm a little suspicious of those criteria of yours. That's one thing. But second, you mentioned counties, state of counties, obligations and decentralisation. On the one hand, commitments are imposed, and on the other hand financial resources are such. It's very clear things are set up. But not just with the county. I, in particular this document, see that most of this data for the analysis of the situation was obtained from the Institute of Public Health, and the document is not mentioned. This document does not highlight the role of the County Public Health Institutes as initiators, coordinators and contractors of numerous programme and project activities, promotion of prevention health, equal detection of chronic non-infectious diseases, and all this with intra-sectoral and non-sectoral cooperation. The County Institute of Public Health with stronger coordination of the Croatian Institute for Public Health but greater human and financial resources in this area can make a significant contribution in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14966	Thank you very much. And the last replica of this exhibition is her distinguished representative, Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have well noticed, colleague Cain, that the disproportionateness between the financial or fiscal capacity of our counties and the obligation to our hospitals. Namely your Hospital in Pula is classified in the same category as the Hospital in Slavonski Brod, Hospital in Zadar and Hospital in Varazdin, it is so called. Second A League behind the clinic. So somewhere the budget of the Pula Hospital is slightly higher than the budget of the Slavonski Brod Hospital and the original funds of your county you spoke of crossing over 200 million while the original budget of the Brod-Posavina County is 75 million kuna. Now imagine if it were to happen, God forbid it was announced by the minister that the county take over their hospitals you are founders have your rights. The ship's hospital would really have to close down because there's no way to survive with the original assets of the county with 75, 80 million kuna, and the annual budget of the hospital is somewhere around 240 can make me right he knows better because they shut me out of the HDZ Ship's Hospital a year and I don't know how many years this year is the budget of the Ship's Hospital. However, the government's tax change laws on income are additionally impoverished units of regional and local self-government, cities and counties because there has been a lack of funds in the budget of the county and cities under the new Income Tax Act. There's something else I wanted to say. You may not know because you didn't have me at the county assembly the other day and there was a memo or at the county assembly that presented a memo to the ministry where it was proposed for every hospital and apparently for the July pulse this year and determined the number of teams at Slavonski Brod Hospital. The number of teams compared to the existing much smaller than it was. [[Intruder: Time.]] If it's a reduction and it's a new strategy then I really need to be as skeptical as my colleague Đurovic who said you would hardly be able to refrain from such a strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14968	Thank you, LiEpo. On behalf of the HNS club, the next one will be a respected representative of Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14969	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be brief, given that we've only come to the end of the debate in clubs, we're constantly sitting at 9.30, obviously we have a problem in operation but at some other time. In HNS, we welcome the adoption of the strategy because it is simply so far in this form we have never had, and yet it sets its goals, or its vision, in the future, the possibility of trying to lead the whole system to what is needed primarily for our citizens in the health system. It is good that a comprehensive analysis is made in this strategy, which is much more extensive than the guidelines themselves, and that is very understandable to me. This will be an excellent basis for discussing the effects of the strategy and action plans over the years, which will follow this strategy as far as we have moved in relation to the situation given in this analysis and which, unfortunately, in many segments, is not good and is not going in the right direction, and we must all acknowledge that. We cannot say that everything is bad because our health care system is functioning and is highly recognised and our doctors, our experts are recognised experts in medicine in the world, however, the fact that the system as such has a whole series of problems from funding to organization to communication and cooperation within all segments of the system and, of course, it will need to be based on the guidelines given in the strategy to change. What HNS welcomes in particular and would like one of the first action plans to be adopted through this strategy to be based on primary health care and prevention. I remember Mr. Minister, in the campaign in the election campaign in all his remarks on the health programme, he spoke about prevention, prevention, prevention, and I think it's really finally time for the significant funds, or all the available means that can be created at this point on health savings, to point exactly that because the direction of funds will certainly bring savings in the whole system first. And not to mention what the benefits will be, of course, for the health of our citizens. What is always a topic is primary health care and a system that unfortunately collapsed over the last twenty years, these are systems of home health, centres of primary health care. Some things are completely operational system are completely omitted and are unfortunately not compensated with anything. There is certain that there has been intensities to create and financial savings, I believe that there was no money, but it is inadmissible that in primary health care any segment that makes her from the family doctors of pediatricians, gynecologists and ultimately to palitative care. This must work because if we look at health care as a system that is set up as a pyramid, then it is exactly that base and that is the primary health care center on which the entire system stands must be perfectly complex, and of course this top that represents our clinical and hospital centres of excellence are the top that solves those health problems that cannot be solved in this broad base. I hope that through this pyramid, the primary, secondary, tertiary, action plans and actions will go, and I believe that the minister will do everything in that direction. What's the problem? Since I was talking about the pyramid, I'd like to say one more thing. So, unfortunately with us, this pyramid is set up like this, so its top stands, our health care stands on that top, that is, on this excellence, at these clinical hospital centers, and of course it created huge waiting lists, of course it created huge costs and of course we have too few doctors in these clinical hospital centers that could solve the overall system and all the problems we have in health care. So here I am, in principle, talking about these things because I think we need to talk about this subject in principle today, not individually, although individually about a whole series of problems that we have in health care and that are here and in most discussions mentioned today, we could talk for hours because I have worked for years in this very system that is at a lower level in the Primorje-Gorski County and I know that the problem has a very, very, very great deal. One more thing you might need in this strategy, and I also hope that through one action plan or another kind of action will come before us here to Parliament, and that's the question, I think, that's what colleague Cain mentioned, it's a question of decentralisation of the system. I think that we have to decide on one step in this sense, we have to leave some things that can and are justified and objective to be at local and regional level, I don't think we should be afraid of that, that we can just get added value in the whole system. In one place, this cooperation is mentioned, i.e. the possibility of communication between local and regional self-government with national levels and their interconnection and horizontally and vertically, but I think there will come a moment and that in one strategy that goes towards 2020, which is still eight years ahead of us, something like this has to be mentioned. You know that we have only taken one small first step in this decentralisation, and at the time of Prime Minister Racan's coalition government, I think it is time to move on and give this segment a chance for local self-government to do its job in a better way, or its obligations in health care, even though it is within the law to do so, but concrete obligations are not yet given to it. Here are some principled remarks, I could talk a lot about it. I hope that from these objectives, that is, from these visions that have been offered and solutions that will be offered through action plans systematically in the coming years, the entire system of health will improve significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14970	Thank you very much. And this debate has caused four replicas. First, she is a respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members, here is your debate confirming that the debate is coming to an end to try to be all constructive and contribute, but of course we are obliged to warn the shortcomings, it is our same obligation and I will not, of course, agree with you on primary health care, in much of what you said. But one moment I'd like to draw attention to, which is a paliatical medicine that hasn't been talked about enough today. I believe that not enough is said, so here is Mr. Minister, I think it is really necessary to talk about it because we simply know, we testify that in Croatia there is this based on let's say, we know that the association has been working since '94, that there are mobile teams in Pula based on enthusiasm, there is something in Rijeka. But here I come from the county where it's set to a higher level, at a higher level there's also ambulatory palitative medicine, there's daily treatment, etc. So, I believe that there is a lot of room in this area for improvement and quality and accessibility, of course and savings, but not only at the tertiary level, there are at all levels and there are opportunities for funding, so in this sense Mr. Minister and for this action plan you are planning for the 12th of June. I believe there's plenty of room in that section where palatable medicine is, and the needs are in the palatable, we're witnessing more and more every day, and there's that part of it can be improved, and, of course, certain savings can be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14972	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of distinguished representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would refer to what has been mentioned about decentralisation. So just don't think in that direction about decentralisation of obligations to units of local and regional self-government again. Yes, decentralisation of obligations and making decisions centralisedly. Therefore, I must specifically warn you that there is then an objective danger of violating those fundamental principles of health care, equal availability to all, equal continuity, equal and comprehensiveness, because not all the ends of the Republic of Croatia will be due to their fiscal inability in an equal position to ensure equal quality of health care in their area. It's something that needs to stay centralized. Don't go too far in decentralisation. But there's something I need to conclude, Mr. Vice President, and here's Mr. Minister for you, too. Two things, I think it's a shame for all of us to discuss such an important topic on Fridays on the day when it's usually due by 12 o'clock. This is a topic that's earned a whole day's debate. We are talking about a strategy for eight years of one activity that is important for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, from one who was conceived to one who is 120 years old. And secondly, this also applies to the Presidency of the Parliament, which puts such an important item of the agenda in this day. And the other thing is the shame of the Croatian public that there are more members of the Assembly's professional service on such an important matter than parliamentary representatives in the assembly. There, that's not right. It is also underestimating to citizens who expect us to solve major health problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14974	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the distinguished representative Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14975	I have to answer even though I say here's a little time off. When I was talking about decentralisation, of course, if it is, when it is planned, it must, of course, monitor the powers and adequate financial resources. However, there are also some problems in the system that do not follow directly or indirectly always follow of course finances. But it's also about making certain decisions. If you'll remember, I performed here two months ago on behalf of the CNS for a decision, or the Law on Network Making and suggested that the network be delivered at the level, means for primary health care at the level of the county which is also the founder of institutions in primary health care and that the consent of the minister. Now there was a case I believe, of course, just for procedural reasons that the minister had to send a network of consent to the counties, that it entered into the space of the statutes, meaning the disbanded congregations of the county and that the county had no time to bring meaning the opinion that the minister was looking for on the network. Here, so in this segment we can do a lot, and if we want to, of course, we have the political will to put together in the system of certain things in a way that makes life easier for ourselves on the ground because we are the first to face these problems, meaning at regional and local level, and then, of course, the ministry. In that sense, there are opportunities to move no matter what you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14976	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14977	Dear Vice President, my colleague gave me a chance for a replica that is not about the subject, she said at the beginning of the problem of functioning, which is what we need to discuss. I agree completely with my colleague Buric because I am one of the rare parliamentary deputies who stays mostly until the end of each parliament's session. I think this is embarrassing. It's a shameful way to lead, I agree with the Parliament, a session of the Assembly. I don't mean specifically these of yours, but the general policy of putting the dots on the agenda. It's mostly known when there's a point you don't need, don't let the vice president nod, that's exactly what I'm saying, it's a policy to get as few people as possible to hear what's being said in the assembly. This earned a full-day session and even had to be asked for Croatian television to broadcast the afternoon part of the session not on Friday. And secondly, I don't agree with people who say they're getting in the way of replicas. We are here to speak in the Parliament, first of all to speak and to be judged by what we say. We know that it is the practice of the ruling coalition to put the points of those to be baptised in the afternoon. That happens several times, so one of the ministers said Mr. Vuksic you'll be a little less on TV to make peace with it. It's not about private vanity, it's about citizens' interests. Citizens' interests are becoming less and less protected in this House. This today, this consequence, and even people who are bitter, the former minister who had to go somewhere, couldn't stay and deal with medicine, was a minister. I think we need to talk about this in the Parliament, and we need to talk about it in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14978	Thank you very much. It wasn't really about the subject, although I can't say I don't agree with that part of it. But in any case, the next replica is that of the distinguished MP Comparic Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14979	Thank you, Vice President. Here I can also agree that for such an important topic, we are terribly few in the Assembly, but who is to blame. I think it's every single person's personal responsibility. So today is a session, I don't know where any of us had to go. But apparently, then, each of us suffers from the consequences of what he does. And now I'm going back for the truth on the line. My colleagues you said, and it seems excellent to me that our health care is standing on the pyramid upside down, that the enormous pressure on clinical hospitals, hospitals, county, cities, that in fact all our patients could do in primary health care are actually being performed in hospitals. It's especially visible in big cities. I have to say it because I simply think that as I have already said, a pressure, a gastritis or a similar disease can be treated in primary health care. And that's why we have so many waiting lists, because it just doesn't work in primary health care anymore. But not because our doctors don't want it, but the fact that our patients simply know they have great rights. There has already been a talk today that I do not deny them, and they come to the doctor and seek a medical manual immediately, i.e. a cardiologist’s manual or an endocrinologist’s manual. Because they know they can do it and they know the doctor will give it to them. And why will the doctor give them? Because if he doesn't do it, he'll take the chart, take the colleague up, and every chart is the mains, and there's our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14980	Thank you very much. We ended the replica, however, the HNS MPs' club asked for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14981	Yeah, here I was looking for a 10-minute break. Namely, these two last replicas of counterparts Buric and colleagues, Vuksic, in any case, cannot agree with the HNS club, both personally and as a member of the presidency and vice president. That's why I'm looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14982	It's ten minutes. And the HDSSB club is looking for a break and the Labour Club is looking for a break. Ten-minute stop. Here's although the number of people present in the hall is extremely small, I would like to ask the vice president of this House of Commons to say something on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I was in a dilemma whether it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure or something else, but all I have left to point to are these reactions of my colleagues Vuksic and my colleagues Buric related to the replica, first of all to the Rules of Procedure, and today, Vice President Stazic said, quoting what is a replica, means that this institute has been abused. However, I definitely cannot agree with the finding of counterparts Buric and counterpart Vuksic, this is a very important topic. I don't think there are any irrelevant issues in this House that are being discussed, first of all. Secondly, we received and adopted the agenda where exactly what points of the agenda are coming. Those from the technical as far as I have information about the technical problems point that preceded the agenda, it was the cemetery, it couldn't be realized yesterday or today morning, and the logic went to the Health Strategy. That's why I don't see the problem. I also didn't notice that in this assembly, in this House of Commons it was writing work hours. That it's until 14 o'clock, that it's up to 12 so it's not working later. We all have experience, we see that it's been done in previous synergy until midnight and later. How important this topic is also said by these discussions, the number of reports reported, the number of replicas, but I repeat, there is no irrelevant topic that comes to this High House for discussion before us. And I would disagree with my colleagues, both Buric and Vuksic, that when the session is transferred, it is a matter of personal responsibility for each and every one of us. When it's going to be at the session, we've had a lot of discussion about it, even though it's very ungrateful to discuss ourselves, about our activities, about our obligations, but I'm saying I definitely don't think it's correct of any of our other colleagues to come forward in such a way. I would also, now we can talk, fellow Buric to ask how many of his colleagues besides him are present here? I see two colleagues at my colleague Vuksic's. On the right, I see the Honorable Vice President Reiner and two colleagues. On the left-hand side, same less. However, this does not mean that the debate cannot take place. That you can't discuss quality bio transmission via HTV, whether it was just a constituency television. The same as the chairman of this session or any other replica institute is also being abused. And that's what both of you and your colleague have now confirmed. So, of course, I would always allow that one freedom of speech does not mean to forbid something to say, but there are also other ways to express your dissatisfaction. There is a possibility of organising press conferences, press releases, etc. So I'm saying I had to react, I've been looking for a way, I've seen this as the only possible by the Rules of Procedure. Once again, don't say what doesn't stand. I also feel hurt as a member of the Bureau who proposed the agenda and where I know that it was debated precisely because I think it might be a little wrong for us to go to a very important topic in the morning when television is. I said why first? Does it matter if we look at ourselves on small screens? And the Croatian public, there is a parliamentary television, there is everything available to our Croatian public so that they can see who was saying what in this House and what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14985	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14986	I welcome the Honorable Vice President. So, with nothing challenged Mr. Vice President has begun to give lessons to MPs which, when and in what way should we speak at all. First of all, Mr. Vice President, not even my colleague Vuksic, as far as I've heard, and neither have I abused the Institute of Replica, and I ask you that after those powerful stories about the Rules of Procedure when we were changing the Rules of Procedure, an incorrect quote, etc. I first replicated my colleague on a concrete example of the issue of decentralisation, and then I did touch and it was my turn to say it, and I will always say that such an important topic of the agenda, you can't say that there are no, I didn't say that there are irrelevant topics, but that there are important and more important topics which are of interest to the entire Croatian public. Don't tell me that choice and appointments are as important as this agenda item. So don't talk about something we didn't talk about. We stressed that such an important topic is not put on the agenda on Fridays and behind that I am still standing and that is my opinion. I don't have to be right, but I still think no, especially not before there's gonna be a vote. Because after the vote, what happened? The MPs are gone. That's how much, why, but it's not a problem for them to leave, the problem is that you put it on Friday when it's not, when it's not going to be followed, we don't talk about ourselves and we need to do it in the morning hours so that any of us can watch themselves on TV. How are you gonna look at yourself sitting here? So, Mr. Vice President, don't justify something you can't justify. No one said there was a working time because if there was a working time, then we'd probably be gone by now. And this reminded me of a law passed in the previous term of the HDZ Government, the Law on Joint Defence of the Republic of Serbia, which was put on the agenda about 18.00 hours before the beginning of the match of the Dinam, and I think that the Brügge Club was played here in Zagreb then there were also 7 or 8 MPs and here was the topic that was truly of general national interest. I'll finish it. There is no reason, I think ask Mr. Minister, if he is pleased that the agenda item on such an important topic of the Health Strategy is put on Friday for the next 8 years. You know the parliamentary practice is that on Fridays they went to the agenda of the agenda that could have been completed by 12 hours unless it was. This deserved to start in the morning on Wednesday or Tuesday, but it still doesn't last all day until evening. And if it had been all day then it would have been a more quality debate on this agenda point and I'm sure it would have been much more useful for the ministry and ultimately for the whole strategy. So I don't see why you guys were so excited and looking for a break because of something that my colleague Vuksic and I just found out. We've been doing the right thing. How many of us have been involved in the debate here? You saw there were three of us talking all the time. Is this fellow out there now or isn't out there it's more or less. How many of you are represented by 88 representatives of the ruling coalition, tell me how many of them are here, and don't count on it now. And it doesn't matter how many MPs there are, we're too little and it's a shame. It is a shame that you cannot list us 20 and we are talking about something that is important for every citizen in Croatia for the next 9 years. And if there were 50 of us left, there would be little. And when that doesn't show, then you say there's no need to talk about it. We should and we'll talk about it as always as you asked for a break now so reminds me of when I asked for a break same at the end about eight or half past seven o'clock in the evening, so Mr. Leco said that half the MPs had almost had a heart attack. And listen, we're gonna be looking for a break maybe at 3:15 again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14987	Thank you very much for hoping no one gets a heart attack. On behalf of the Laburista Club, they will say something to the distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14988	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I didn't want to offend anyone. If you've found yourself offended, I guess you know why, I'm probably right. First of all, I'd like to ask you one thing, why do you vote at noon? Because most of it whether it was most or now your majority has a certain time when they have to come and raise their hands. The Parliament has become a voting machine. This is where I poled up with Prime Minister Milanovic a few months ago, and then I said that he had broken the constitution if you remember those who were in the assembly because he publicly stated that in Croatia there was a semi-cancellary system, even no one responded to such a situation. The Constitution was broken, the prime minister himself hurt him. It's not a semi-cancellary system. It's an office system. We, as if we came out of the government and not that the government came out of the House, it proves the vote at 12 o'clock, the stampede is formed by five to 12 and 12.20 stampede. You can be as angry as you want, but every time the press has a picture taken, it's recorded. Why don't you vote at the end of the day? I agree with you, it doesn't write hours, at the end of the day Friday's vote, not because you wouldn't have quorum would people travel not be able to leave. It's a lie that everyone's working in the field now, that's a lie. It's a lie that when they're not MPs in the Parliament to work on committees. We know when the boards are. It's a lie to work with citizens because we see them in shopping stores. Therefore, if we do not honestly discuss here in the Parliament how the Parliament works, then the Parliament is too high. Why am I talking about television? Because if a respected minister didn't say the same thing, I don't remember which minister said there'd be fewer pictures of us on the TV screen. Well, we're not fighting for our picture on the TV screen, we're fighting for citizens to see, hear what we're talking about, what we stand for, and to be able to assess the parties, it's our only chance because you know that capital holds private media, and on HTV we'll see how we can, who's going to set up as their director. So, you need to know parliamentary television, do you even know where the constituency television can be seen? The parliamentary television cannot see citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not pay for MAX TV and who do not pay for B-net. Therefore, you cannot tell Croatian citizens to subscribe to MAX TV, so Mudrinic will love you, fantastically. The parliamentary television has limited range and it has one, one small, small part of the population of the Republic of Croatia. People need to know they need to be able to find out what's going on in the Parliament. It's the same other topic. So, when I talked about it, the other thing, you must care and care about every parliamentary representative, I hope, and members of the government, if they're democratic that as many people know what we're talking about here, to find out what the government is proposing, what is the health strategy of the next 8 years. I'm also sorry about the minister's time, which certainly has a smarter time than in front of five MPs, but we tell ourselves a story here, no matter what the council television is doing, because I say it's a limited number of people watching it. And because I don't need more, there are 50% of Croatian Labour Clubs here. I'd be happy if there were 50% of HDZ, HNS, etc. The HNS seems to me to have the most of the ruling. Therefore, I did not step forward to offend anyone but to find out and that finally we parliamentary representatives would fight for the status of this House. Watch the polls when citizens survey what they think of the Parliament. We are at the very bottom because they realize that the Parliament is a puppet at the end of the government or as Mr Milanovic says in the semi-cancellary system, which has injured the Constitution, but not even a president of the Parliament, I think then it was the President of the Parliament or the Vice President of the Parliament who led the session who did not react that he warned him of forgiveness, but you can't derrogate the Parliament like you did. Unfortunately, this is all possible and one session of parliament would only deserve a theme on the status of parliament. Of course they won't, because they won't give it to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14989	Thank you very much. We have completed this part of the debate, and it is now likely that a representative of the promoter, the esteemed Minister Prof. Dr. Rajko Ostojic will give his final presentation. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Academyman Reiner. My colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for the whole day's debate and if this debate continues then people's confidence in the Croatian Parliament will probably be restored. So the debate was on fire for moments, but it was consilient, in good faith, and I came along with three brief exits I listened to you all. Mrs. Turic was right to work in July for the Constitutional Court. Not to justify myself, but it was a kind of fact that I had to, the Constitutional Court annulled and, of course, in the next network, and there was a talk of palitative concern, went by colleague Milinkovic, but the Sensens know it well because they don't have a mobile palitative team. We are taking care of the Palitative Care and the first action plan will be the Palitative Care Action Plan, and this year we have financed two new departments from our Ministry of Health fund, which as you have heard, is smaller and smaller: Novi Marof and Knin, completely. It wasn't planned, funded. It wasn't planned. The orthodontics of Slavonia signed and two more orthodontics yesterday, one of them is the Pleternica that I remember, the other I don't know where it is. So according to the needs and no one called, God forbid someone calls me. You just have to. So I just did it a day ago, so I know very, very well what we're doing. Prevention, prevention, prevention, you're right. We've had two breast preventions. We're doing it with colon cancer. This year, finally with uterus cancer, although we had doctors and specialties, it's amazing that no uterine cancer prevention program has been conducted through the pope's test, a simple test, a established test, a cheap test, is essentially amazing. It's irresponsible behavior. Everything's going down, you'll see everything in 10 days. But there isn't, someone said, orders. With the right doctors, I see several doctors here, no ordering a la carte. I never gave anyone a manual or a guide so he tells me when I was a little doctor, the smallest doctor and intern, etc., it's a matter of character. I'm convinced that neither Buric nor academic Reiner did it, and I don't know who's there from the doctor. There's no way I'm gonna get that manual. No one can do that to me. You can do that in County or someone else, and la carte can't. And most doctors don't allow it, and the vast majority don't allow it. Another thing that should be done on that, but a a la carte no surprise. It's Friday, thank you all for estimating this program as optimal and even too ambitious. I like that word too ambitious and I practically know you all here on this side and on this side and I never talk about myself, and now I'm going to talk about myself for the first time. When we were in 2000, and I was educated for the transplant, it was then my director, and then at the time the health minister in '99, started the transplant program in 2000, all of them were pessimistic. Preambitiously, at the time of SFRY we were the last in Europe, during the Homeland War there was no way to do a transplant, today with minimal resources, with a lot of investment in people, with a horizontal and vertical connection, today we are the first country in the world of 194 countries, the first in the world to transplant kidneys, by liver transplant, and the second in the world by heart transplant. And everyone's responsible for it, you just need it, it's in your life a trigger point, a point of turn. The critical mass of people in opposition, position, executive, legislative, any government, critical mass of people to take the wheel, eight years later we're first. The second thing I'm going to say and I'm never going to mention it again is east... The rib that's been talking about for 40 years. When I was deputy director and ran it again they told her, uh, old story, so today it's believe the best looking hospital in Europe. The day before yesterday, the U.S. Embassy first came, and they want to make a deal with that hospital, so they finally want to put all the embassies on treatment. The best hospital in Central Europe for people, but also for funds. And just because I'm careful I never talk about the University Hospital Blato, not even now, and this strategy and what we're going to do is we're going to meet these five priorities for sure, including palitative care, emergency medical assistance, information, because you all come from all over Croatia and you know very well that Croatia, as I told the IMF representatives today when we talked about the number of hospitals, is that it's difficult to interpret. Okay, we have 60 and a few hospitals, but we have an unusual form, we have a thousand islands, we have 12,000 employees of doctors throughout Croatia, from an emergency from Vis and Dubrovnik, Home of Health Metkovic, all county hospitals, KBC, 12000 and 60 and some hospitals. Johns Hopkins, Mayo clinics, Kings college, one hospital 11,000 doctors. You see how relative that is. So it's not an important number of hospitals, it's an important number of people, and they figured it out. And given our unusual geographical form, on a significantly better transport connection, is not the purpose of the number of hospitals, the purpose is the number of doctors and sisters and, therefore, we will certainly, regardless of the most interesting morning during the session of colleagues Milinović and Šuker and Jandrokovic were interested in the number of doctors. There will be more doctors and nurses, more and more at the end of this term. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14991	Thank you very much. Here's what we've done with this agenda point. Of course, we will vote on it when the conditions are met and this session will be completed today. I'm sorry, I didn't see any excuses. Dear Representative Dinko Buric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14992	Thank you. I thought you noticed. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, so just for a little while. Paliatical care you said would be a special concern for her. You weren't in the assembly, you were probably outside when I spoke to my colleague Borzan. It's okay, I should go, but I also warned that in my plan, what 21 Kukuriku said to the four regional centres of Paliatical Medicine, I warned of something that happened 1st Kolovoza this year, HZO that it had approved the funds for paliatical medicine for home health Zagreb, Rijeka and Pazin, and that it excluded Osijek and that it was excluded Split and it was wrong. It's not regional equal representation. I hope you will make sure that this mistake is corrected, especially by the clinic for the Palitative Medicine at the House of Health Osijek which has already existed since 2010 funded the Osijek-Baranja County and Home of Health. So help if it is financed in Rijeka and Zagreb let the burden of financing be taken over by HZZO as well. As far as orthodontics is concerned, I'm glad these two were signed because it's a big problem not only in Slavonia and Baranja but probably in all of Croatia. But, Mr. Minister, it's not only that you approve the specialization but it's said that the problem is in the mentor. It's not their fault either. And specialists who come out of Zagreb unfortunately come in a position that they have to wait three, four years to come in order to start a specialization at all and try to do something about it because then it's a real problem. And finally emergency medical care as a very important segment. I warn you of what it is, it is not the same emergency in Zagreb and emergency in the periphery. Look in Zagreb enough to have one dispatch centre, and we with the County emergency medical care in Osijek-Baranja County have specifically five homes of health. That's what I was already saying, those checkpoints. We have a problem with closed doors when the team goes out. It can't be said that we'll only recognize a team of three members, a doctor, a technician and a driver and we don't have and HZZO doesn't want to admit to that fourth technician dressed or nurse. Someone has to stay physically in the room. That's 20, here I go. It's five checkpoints in five cities times four men to cover the shift. It's about 2.9 million kuna a year. It's not big money for HZZO, but it's a rescue for the entire facility, for the whole county. Therefore, emergency in Zagreb and emergency in Split, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Vinkovci is not in the same position. You understand? In Zagreb, there is a hospital in every neighborhood along the way, and when they go to the field, there is no going back. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14993	Thank you very much. Minister of Health, Professor Ostojic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14994	Short. ... Directors of Split Luetić, Osijek I think Pašalic and Kleu in Zagreb is and talking to them during the year was the first point of emergency medical care. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And we saved, and thanks to the fact that we appreciate attitudes, that there are a lot of mosquitoes I have therefore found that for 20 years in Croatia the rule of dusting was forbidden. Do you know that? And when did I change that? In 24 hours. Especially in Slavonia, a ruined country, full of mines breeding mosquitoes. Practically, practically. And that's why we have so few patients with the West Nile today. So I wish you a practical example, and this is the best example for you of what we do at the Ministry of Health. So I changed the rule in 24 hours, made it possible to dust Slavonia out of the air for years. For what? A conclusion to you. Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14995	I'd be here by 7:00. Here's the deal. And get these 20 out of the ambulance, and it's all settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14996	Thank you very much. This will end today's session, and I only remind you that we will continue to work on Tuesday at half 10 of the concession law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-21-0.u14997	Before we move to the vote on the realised agenda points, I would like to ask the debated agenda points to determine the quorum. Thank you very much. 112 MPs are present in the hall, and we have a sufficient number for a valid decision on all points of the agenda. Proposal for a National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020 The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal from the National Strategy. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. The result? I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 25 against and 9 abstentions, the National Health Development Strategy was adopted in 2012 to 2020 in the text proposed by the applicant. Honorable MPs and respected MPs good morning. We're going to work on the established agenda. The first point of today's agenda is - Proposal for a law on concessions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 134. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Integration. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
