ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a draft proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention establishing a Council on Customs Cooperation with the draft final draft law. This law confirms the amendment and addition of the Convention establishing a Council on Customs Cooperation in order to ensure that its provisions are adopted after all Contracting Parties enter into force and become an integral part of the Convention and thereby part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia within the meaning of Article 141. The Constitution of the The purpose of the amendment and addition of the Convention adopted by the Council is to allow customs economic unions to join the Convention and membership of the World Customs Organisation, which establishes a mechanism for extending membership and for the relevant unions, respecting the increasingly important role that customs economic unions play in international relations, particularly in those relating to international trade and the fact that certain members of the customs or economic union such as the EU have been active participants in the work of the organisation for a long time. So this law confirms an international contract that we actually signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21271	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Working Body Committees want to take the floor? I can tell you that no. I'm confirming they're not applying. I'm opening a debate. Neither the clubs nor the representatives of the individual debate applied for the debate. The debate is on the text of the law is over, so we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal for a law confirming the amendment and supplementing the Convention establishing a Council on Customs Cooperation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ. No. 194. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 114 votes, the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention establishing the Customs Cooperation Council has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In front of us is a second reading of the law on fiscalisation in cash transport. The fiscalisation is a regulation of a set of measures to ensure that any traffic incurred in cash is actually recorded in taxpayers' business books. The data says otherwise today. According to the recorded data, only 15% of traffic achieved is related to cash traffic and is unlikely, however, given the visible cash payment. Activities in which payment is generally known to be made in cash record extremely low daily traffic and low daily incomes, e.g. retail trade, repair of household items, average daily traffic is declared 734 kuna and average daily income 85 kuna. In restaurants is average daily traffic of 688 kuna, average daily income of 110 kuna. In bars average daily turnover 610 kuna, daily income 95 kuna. In catering traffic 620 kuna, daily income 100 kuna. Taxi service 206 kuna, daily traffic 65 kuna daily income. The retail trade in unspeakable living foods 100 kuna daily income, construction crafts 108 daily income etc. Therefore, the traffic shown in the annual income tax returns shows that the level of transport shown clearly indicates that the taxpayer, with such low turnover, could not operate at all. The fiscalisation should begin on 1 January 2013, and it is required that all bonds be prepared in due time because the penalty for not implementing the fiscalisation will be the sealing and banning of work until fiscalisation is established. The adjustment to fiscalisation means that the majority of the debtors will have to adapt their existing charging devices while only a small part of the obligors have to obtain new devices that meet the needs of fiscalisation. The cost of the adjustment or the cost of the purchase of the device shall be recognised in the operating costs of the obligor. Tax administration is ready for fiscalisation, the Tax Administration has carried out all preparatory actions in due time, it has been possible to test the system since 12.10.2012. In writing, all the hosts who are the first to start the fiscalisation were informed, meetings with large entrepreneurs were held, continued cooperation is taking place between the Tax Administration and the Information Associations, as well as all other professional associations seeking information on fiscalisation. The final proposal for a law on fiscalisation in cash adopted comments and proposals that pointed to the real problems of the need to supplement the legislative text until, on the contrary, the comments which would undermine the meaning of fiscalisation could be accepted. Therefore, the activities excluded from the fiscalisation obligation are specified, but only those carried out under the conditions that there are other criteria for the size of the traffic achieved. In addition, toll collection activities, insurance, health participation payments, central paper securities depository services have been released. The technical details of the implementation of the fiscalisation, the numbering of accounts, the content of the accounts and the like are also specified, and all of them are based on the observations and proposals submitted. A fiscalisation procedure for areas where it is not possible to establish a data exchange link which will prove to be confirmed by HACOM and in this case... fiscalisation is carried out for small taxpayers. The provisions of the law also extended the provisions governing payments in cash between fiscalisation obligations. The provisions of the law restrict the possibility of payment in cash for the purchase of goods of up to 5000 kuna and at the same time prescribe provisions at the level of the cash max, the amount of cash held by the fiscalisation obligor, noting that large bonds are also allowed to prescribe the maximum according to their rules of procedure and based on their requirements. In particular, no comments have been accepted concerning the regulation of additional exemptions for fiscalisation obligations which do not have other measurable traffic sizes and remarks relating to the movement of the deadlines for the introduction of the fiscalisation. For example, the requirement to exempt lawyers from fiscalisation is not accepted, given that the prescribed method of fiscalisation will not lead to a breach of the law enforcement institute because no client information is required for fiscalisation. For the implementation of this law, the cost of establishing a fiscalisation system in the first year is 13 million kuna, and in the next two years 15 million kuna. At the same time, fiscalisation is expected to bring about 1 billion kuna a year more tax collected, given the exception of the first year, i.e. the phase of the implementation of the fiscalisation process is expected in the first year of application of around 500 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21275	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of Parliament's working bodies want to take a word on this material? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Dragica Zgrebec, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21276	Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since it is a second reading of this law, I will briefly look back on behalf of the SDP club on the final draft of the law. The adoption of the Fiscalisation Act is one of the measures to introduce tax discipline in the payment of taxes to taxpayers operating in cash because it means better monitoring tax collection and narrowing down the area for the gray area of business, i.e. tax evasion. In addition, the cash fiscalisation system means better than the issue of cash business accounts, i.e. the accounting and tax returns. Non-payment of taxes or tax evasion other than criminal liability also means unfair competition between business entities, a reduction in the revenue of the budget used for general social purposes, affects the level of tax rates of regular payments, but also obtaining income from customers or service users. The introduction of fiscalisation does not only mean an insight into the tax liability, i.e. the accounting and reporting of the tax liability, but also raises awareness of the customers so that they can control whether the amount of tax they have paid is actually recorded as a tax liability. Thus, fiscalisation means a certain type of consumer protection because it ensures supervision of the tax charge and reduces the possibility of tax evasion. For cash tax evasion to exist, it may be based on income tax returns which, without major analysis, indicate income unsecured in some tax entities which, in most of the income acquisitions, operate with cash. Following the debate in the first reading of the draft law, certain objections and new provisions have been observed, in particular a provision on a cash maximum which, following this payment law, was not regulated and payment in cash between the fiscalisers. The amendments relate to a clearer definition of activities that are excluded from fiscalisation, the way in which an account is numbered, the provisions on the delivery of the daily report are repealed, the procedure for the implementation of the fiscalisation for areas where it is not possible to establish a link for data exchange, i.e. Internet access, and allow the tax administration to carry out the printing of facilities where it is found that no fiscalisation procedure is carried out. The law will enter into force on 1 January 2013 and will be applied gradually from 1 January to 1 July 2013 to all compulsory fiscalisation. We estimate that the introduction of fiscalisation in cash business is a good move, not only for the sake of greater scope of the tax base, but for the introduction of equal business conditions for business entities and for the protection of customers who pay taxes that do not end up as revenue from the budget. Criticisms that this is another type of tax premium on entrepreneurs and that additional costs will affect the closure of certain facilities are not acceptable because they support illegal acquisition of income from individuals or groups. In fact, the constitutional category is that each person pays a tax according to economic power and the adoption of a part of the income relating to the tax is a punishable act. The next year, the VAT rate for catering services will be reduced from 25%, which should facilitate the business of those activities from which the most criticism comes and thus reduce the pressure on their liquidity. Since 12.10.2012, the Ministry has implemented information actions for fiscalisation obligations, especially in this phase towards the hosts, and since 12.10.2012, all bonds can test the system to be ready for the official application of the law. This law concludes a package of laws that are adapted in this year to the introduction of order in the payment of tax obligations, avoiding tax evasion and introducing loyal competition in business, which concerns the payment of state taxes. The SDP club will pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21277	Thank you very much. Next up is the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21278	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yes, we will uphold this law. However, it should also be said that opportunities are mainly in this small sector at the moment. What this will mean specifically for them is that we will only see it in a year's time by applying this law. What I simply cannot understand, on the other hand, is that, for example, in one Austria, one of the most orderly European states, one of the most prospective European states when you go to a cafe, when you go to a restaurant, when you pay for accommodation, when you go to the tracks, no one gives you an account in one Austria, no one issues an account. It's going to say that they're all kind of on the sheets, there's no cash, nothing, and everything's actually fine. I can't understand that. How in one Austria everything works, and how in us with all the inspections, all the fiscal cash registers that are going to be introduced the next day, all the audits or I don't know what's wrong with it. There's nothing more wrong with it. How is it that Austrians can fill their budget with cobwebs, and with all these supervisions here we are now moving or rather speaking we are moving somewhere over the financial sink. Here is enough to mention that next year, the state would have to borrow about 27 million kunas in order to properly service budget commitments in the year ahead. But what I report for when it comes to this law is these criminal provisions. There are fines from 5,000 to 500,000, from 10,000 to 500,000. They're just dragonic. Who, on the other hand, will pay the taxpayers the bills, and half the economy is, in fact, mostly this kid's collapsed. Who's gonna pay for those programs? Article 37 states that the large ones have to introduce these fiscal registers from 1.1.2013 and the small one from 1.4.2013, and since 1.7.2013, it is simply a commitment for all. Absolutely, as someone before me said, perhaps Mrs. Dear Zgrebec, Vice President of the House, says she's wrong about the state, we all know that. But with all that somewhere around 70,000 legal entities are being blocked right now. A few days ago, we had a chance to track down, I don't know, in one of our newspapers, in one of the press that the banks at this point seem unable to appease almost 40 billion kunas. It is 10% active business banks in the Republic of Croatia. I agree with the order absolutely must be. As far as Article 5 is concerned, it is simply said that fiscalisation is not considered a taxpayer for the traffic achieved in the following activities – the sale of cards or chips, toll collection, filling of oil derivatives, aircraft on car services, and that I am not reading all this now. So it's the ones that are excluded. Article 19 of this Act speaks here about data delivery, business premises, etc. etc. What I would like at this point to know how much the end of the Republic of Croatia contributes to filling the state budget. Do these catering facilities, say, or shops, etc. I don't know about business in Istria, Slavonia, Dalmatia, Lici or Zagreb. I agree with all those who say that working on black at this point is probably somewhere around 30% of gross social product. It's the circus equivalent to 100 billion kuna. It is clear that no matter how zealous one country will ever be, it will not affect all that money, but if only 20% of those 100 billion kunas are affected, I don't think the Deputy Minister of Finance or Mr. Linic should be there in one month running to Europe or America in search of some 15 billion kuna that the budget in the year ahead can function under quotes. What is also also interesting here will mainly be garnered on this law, perhaps with the right hosts, which from next year VAT on catering, tourism, etc., hence for accommodation, selling drinks and the like should be reduced to about 25%. That's going to be, that's equivalent to about 400 million kuna. This law should increase revenues in the state budget by 500 million kuna and in fact subscribe that detail in some way. So hospitality can now freely and say, or tourism should not suffer any damage under quotes. However, it should benefit that these measures are to be introduced. On the other hand, in this explanation, it is said that around 1.5 workers per catering facility are employed in the catering industry, that they make some on an annual basis if I am not mistaken 620 kuna is so daily. If we multiply it by 30, that's about the revenue of 20,000 kuna. If one-and-a-half workers that's for wages gross would go about about 7,000 kuna, for the product 10,000 kuna, the owner stays somewhere around 3,000 kuna. Clearly, there is an environment where such a mathematics absolutely does not correspond to the truth, but there are many such small places in Lika, both in the interior and Istria and Dalmatia and Slavonia etc., where perhaps that or that figure of 20 thousand kuna is not far from the truth. So the worst we could do is go through the merchants, but the order has to be absolute. The laws are afraid, they shouldn't, they're scared, and I want to believe that in the end, everyone in the country will accept that order. In one word, if we are an Austrian mentality, we could go on a parchment, and this way through the fiscal registers, it may be harder for everyone, but the state will come to its own benefit, which is certainly going to benefit those who will thus fill this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21279	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic, has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21280	Your Honor, Mr. President, Agent. Here is Mr. Cain's question, i.e. asked and expressed his desire to see how much Istria is filling the state budget, how much Zagreb is filling the state budget, how much Slavonia is filling the state budget, and this may be best seen from the indicator of purchasing power of the population per capita. In Istria, it is about 6.5 thousand euros, in Zagreb 6 thousand 900 euros, while in Slavonia it is at 3 thousand and 300 euros. This is enough to say how much we have cared for regional development all these 20 and a few years in Croatia and how Slavonia, not thanks to the people living in Slavonia, has become the poorest region in Croatia since the once rich region. There's a difference in Slavonia itself. For example, Osijek-Baranja County has an average population purchasing power somewhere around, so I'm talking about the annual level, about 4000 500 euros. The worst is Vukovar-Srijem. Not wanting to enter who was in power in certain counties, but it is evident that Slavonia lags almost 100% behind other developed parts of Croatia, which unfortunately compared to some rich countries such as Luxembourg where on average the purchasing power is 60 thousand euros to these poorest in the developed part of Europe where the average is around 19 thousand euros. That might be the best answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21281	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21282	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister and Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So on behalf of the HNS Club, I must immediately say that we support the law on fiscalisation in cash. What is the key and why this law is good, why is it necessary? It is necessary because we have made amendments and additions and the General Tax Law, we have passed the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement, we have passed a number of laws that, on the other hand, free and encourage investment, reinvestment in entrepreneurs. It is quite clear that the introduction of order in the country, not only in the budget but also in the market in relation to liquidity, i.e. existing liquidity, non-payment of taxes to the state, contributions to workers, mutual non-payment of entrepreneurs or the state towards entrepreneurs and the introduction of such a single order, and it is quite logical, it is quite clear that order is being introduced and everyone is talking about 30% of the assets that are spinning, happening in one gray zone, in a zone where there is no control. One of those key procedures is that only a matter is legalized in a way that ensures the law on fiscalisation of cash traffic. It reduces this space that always remains, always exists, in which a certain amount of money that is out of control is in the gray zone, and outside of control in a way that does not pay taxes, a tax that is not only chargeable of the budget because the budget serves both health and pension and education, and of course everything that is part of it, an integral part of the budget, but what is crucial for citizens to know the budget is used to ensure both the stability of the state and the functioning, but also to ensure that people have quality health, quality education, that we can improve and that we can develop. That's why this law on fiscalisation in cash is definitely something that's not repression. We can't discuss repression in something where there's just something that's a legal obligation to execute. It is only controlled in a faster way, in one more quality way recorded and does not allow individuals at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not at the expense of the budget, on account and instead of other entrepreneurs who regularly comply with their obligations and work according to the law and rules to earn and put in their pocket something that is not their own. The rules of the game must be known, the laws must be respected, and this law on fiscalisation in cash that went into two readings essentially took into account some, some key issues that have opened up, which is the problem of the funds invested, someone says 4000 someone 7 thousand kuna, depending on who to ensure conditions, i.e. hardware with software to combine to react that they can perform the job neatly means he will recognise as part of the cost. What is also important is that it appeared as a problem, which is daily reports in the evening, accounts to deliver daily reports. They are essentially downloaded and provided to the entrepreneur that there is absolutely no need to communicate, contact, stay for dinner, connect, not connect to the lines, is always a question of whether lines work or do therefore absolutely facilitate what is basically when a fiscal cash register is set up in such a way that such communications that will work daily will actually ensure a normal business only that it will be registered immediately, spotlessly and there should not be a need to worry about it, and someone will close because it cannot work on black. I think that such discussions are in one regulated state in one legal state, I will not say in a country that enters the EU, but we are talking about Croatia in which we all want to be a legal state and arranged independently eat or not in the EU that there are really clear rules, that there are respect for taxes, because that tax is essentially coming back to citizens. Therefore, on behalf of the HNS Club, we support this fiscalisation law and I absolutely believe that this will help the competitiveness of entrepreneurs, and I believe that it will indeed be seen in this regard that it is a help and, of course, to stress that the 10% tax introduced from 1 January is certainly something that is much more important and much more key help in the catering of tourism than a different record that will be done in terms of taxes in the function of fiscalising cash traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21283	Thank you, too. At your presentation, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21284	Your Honor. My colleague Gjurkovic says this isn't repression. It's often referred to as a gray zone. I'm asking a question about how it's not repression? This is a financial repression against those who have to do business because someone tells them to buy someone else's products that are likely to be introduced from another country, so they are not even Croatian products and will have to maintain them themselves will have to be educated. That's one thing. The other thing that is now here is also mentioned by a colleague in the gray zone. I ask the question, so we're all aware of the gray zones we all have to work legally it's okay and we all agree with that, but why don't our inspections solve that gray zone? Why aren't the current inspection services doing their job? Why do we say that we have too many civil servants, the tenants on the other hand are holes in our operation where we should do something? We're just discussing taxes, imposing taxes on how to take every single one as much as possible not only in that part of the business but we're still making him have to stand out and for what he buys, of course, he'll pay the VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21285	Thank you, too. Replicate reply, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21286	Dear colleague, you call paying taxes a repression. I really don't understand it. So even today, all the bonds were to pay for entering the cash fiscalisation market were obliged to pay the taxes. And this is just one different way of registering taxes. So this isn't about any new tax, this is about just one more quality record that's much cheaper than all tax inspections and very simple and less unpleasant. Because it is not pleasant when tax inspectors come and close especially during the tourist season of certain catering facilities, it is not pleasant for either the entrepreneur or the caterers is neither the environment nor the Republic of Croatia. It's just one different way of recording the traffic and tax that exists, and the repression isn't when we cut taxes by 10% for tourism and catering. So I don't think you've got that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21287	Thank you very much. And the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21288	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Every introduction of work is positive but there's always the big but. And the second question that you are all here must be asked whether the world always begins with the arrival of one government and ends and begins again with the arrival of another government. So Croatia has a certain phase in its tax reforms, you cannot impose tax discipline overnight. These are processes that last for many years. And so there at the end of the 1990s was one prize game where all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could account that they got in a store for some service put in an envelope to send to the IRS and then once every three months there was a reward envelope so without the intention of someone ratting out what our people would say no, but simply that the IRS would get a series of bills that later when it went into control could check. However, another government came and said this is what is not right to end it right in the process when Croatia came to a very high culture of issuing accounts. And that's something we have to admit to ourselves. It's what happens during the day in software it's another pair of shoes. However, there are certain methods with which the Tax Administration is used, however, if you look at disputes in the second degree at the Tax Administration in the Administrative Court, then you will see almost the most disputes you have is an assessment of real estate and an assessment of traffic among certain taxpayers. It's... complaints. So this law itself, when you look at it like this, is to say hello. However, he has many of those but also many of those questions. First of all, second of all, are all taxpayers ready for this moment, thirdly do we really think that being a caterer in Ban Jelačić Square or just 500, 600 meters away in Zagreb and in some province is equal? It's not. Are we aware of the fact that the emergence of mega-traffic chains in urban areas has closed down almost all the small shops, there are very few left. And in some rural areas, thank God, so some people have stores because these people within a 5-6km wouldn't have anywhere to buy a pound of bread or a liter of milk. I'm talking about two living foods that all citizens buy almost every day, and they're not burdened with VAT, they have a zero rate. The other thing, when we talk about traffic, it doesn't matter where you have a store, where you have a desk because it's a big difference, and I'm going to say on average that someone reports this kind of traffic or that kind of traffic just doesn't fit the fact. And secondly, I'm going to say something open here because I think because of all this law is going to cause us to have the duty of our parliamentary deputies here to talk about some things openly. Well, look, it's not true that the net effect is 100% of what will be determined in the traffic for the simple reason that those products that you sell in the cafe and in the shop have been bought at some price and have already paid the VAT and if they bought it on black, sold it on black, is not a tax effect 100% but is also 50 % somewhere, so these estimates of that profit are quite different from what the tax administration says. What is missing from this law is numerical, analytical indicators of what this real total traffic is and what is the real real fiscal potential of these interests that physically so legal person we want to tell is that they have to introduce that fiscal register. And the other thing, 4-5 years ago, was a massive attack on the government, on the Ministry that some countries in the region introduced a fiscal register, a fiscal cash register, why we don't do it. But look what's going on, they're removing the fiscal register, we're introducing it. Ask yourself why. But what we as Parliamentarians must never forget, which is that there are hundreds in this country, so we can say thousands of endangered crafts and endangered occupations. No one mentions them in this law. You have at least 15 in Zagreb, I'm talking about the biggest city, and we can say that about these larger cities, there are not so many in smaller cities, occupations that will simply disappear with this additional and administrative and tax burden. It's just gonna go away. It is in every state's interest to keep such occupations and even to give them incentives to survive, not to disappear. But you don't have it in this law. With the problem of the inequality of the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, with the situation that many will not be able to so say to the tax administration that they have the possibility to issue an account under this law or they will have to do something else. However, there is something that is very interesting in this law and that in my opinion ruins all the good intentions of this law. How when the whole world escapes from cash payments we in Croatia raise some ceiling so that you can pay an account with cash up to 5000 kuna. Are you aware of what we're doing with that provision? If we want every bill for the delivered service, for the sold product registered in the tax administration and recorded at the same time we give someone a chance to take 5000 kuna, go pay some kind of service, buy some product and work with it. So that's something that's totally illogical. The second thing, determining the cashier's maximum on the statistical records of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and the big ones are just ridiculous. The wealth maximum according to all the laws in this country, starting with the former socialist and later reformed accounting laws and everything that has happened in the Republic of Croatia to international accounting standards, is always based on average cash traffic. Therefore, you have companies that have hundreds of millions of traffic, but their need to deal with cash is simply, it's gone. You give them a cashier maximum of up to 100,000 kuna. Why? So far, according to the Law on Cash Management and Payment of Cash is the largest amount, except for the payment of travel expenses and any material costs of employees, which were backed by travel orders or by some other accounts, the maximum amount was 800 kuna and could not be paid through that account. You are now introducing the possibility that someone can pay 5,000 kuna. The second thing, look here, you say you have to record a bill that's been charged through a credit card. So if you charge someone's credit card bill, you point out to that company that issues those cards account, they pay you and that's traffic over a jury account, and here it's talking about recording cash traffic. So you can't hide that account, so your money's going to sit on the gyro. You each day can get an outflow from a business bank what is the traffic of a single taxpayer through a jury account. Now look, when you count it all, all these bills that are paid and checks and credit cards can only sit on the jury's account, so they're recorded and you can't cover them up at all. You can't hide them at all. And you're putting in records with taxpayers that those bills paid by a card must be recorded in the tax administration and all that expensive as if they were done.... We here simply have to say what we want, whether the problem in Croatia is just the cash business or, in general, some other problem. Because look, when the inspector goes into control and when he comes into control, the first thing he asks the taxpayer to do is to give him a list of the traffic over the jury account, and all these payments that I've been talking about, paying by credit card, paying by check is recorded on the jury account, because I'm not going to advertise any card house to you now, not pay you in your pocket, but exactly where the protocol is prescribed, pay you to your account and take that percentage for the commission. The same billing story is waiting. If the taxpayer takes the check to the business bank, the business bank shall pay the taxpayer’s bill to the jury. So why complicate life to unconsciousness. At the same time, you will see what will be the effect of this law especially in rural areas. You'll see. It's not all black as they say. And finally, what is the effect of that famous publication of a list of debtors that was generally known to all tax collectors, how much did it charge? Almost nothing compared to what the total debt is. There is no presy guarantee that tax revenues will be charged better. The system needs to be built. And you should use the good and bad experiences of those who have something before you. So you should use good and bad experiences. After all, speaking of this law, I repeat it to everyone in the interest of introducing order into the state, it is in everyone's interest to pay taxes to all those who have to pay for it. That's not controversial. However, the fundamental question arises is whether we will ignore the time in which we live, whether we will ignore the diversity of regional development, whether we will ignore that we have a number of turns, unfortunately, of the old which are the very cultural history of the Republic of Croatia that are slowly disappearing and a number of other things. There's something that's very controversial. How will you at the market arrange, for example, for farmers, says the one who sells his own products he does not need to register traffic. We're going to Dolac now, we're going to any market in Croatia, so we'll see from those who sell products just how much they sell their own products, how much they sell someone else's products. So that's something that's simply impossible to determine. And another thing, let's not think about saying that we're gonna do something with some kind of repression. The repression often drives people into the gray zone, and at this point we have repression and crisis and in times of crisis these things don't work. There are models and ways, instead of abolishing the Financial Police, you should have made more effort to regulate these things. And finally, when you look at how many total delivery of legal and natural persons are then you will see that those we now want to deal with their fiscal potential and capacity in the budget of local self-government units and in the state budget are minor, minor colleagues and colleagues. And that's the missing data here, that it's said here that these people are turning 100 billion kunas per year and that it's calculated when VAT is calculated as a tax liability of 15 billion then we could talk here about something. We say traffic is a hundred kunas. So let's get to it if the traffic is what the kuna is, we're going under the legal provisions, we're going to do an income assessment. With them 10, 15, 20 in one, second, third city and be sure with that assessment and tax hike next year you will reduce one percent of those who do not need to. And in this way or you'll close a lot of turns especially in rural areas and you'll get another army of unemployed on the stock market, and the only way in the budget is if you raise your VAT or something like that again. Therefore, because of all these misunderstandings, and especially because of this grand idea that when the whole world runs away from cash, we introduce the possibility of paying 5000 kuna in cash. Well it's nonsens, nonsens, nonsens, nonsens and nonsens, that 5000 kuna would be paid in cash. Why? To whom it is in the interest of today that 5000 kuna goes to a business partner and pays cash when it can pay practically from its office by Internet banking or something else. Who's in the interest of going with 5,000 kuna to pay someone else? But it also raises another question of what will happen to fishermen who sell fish to caterers, who sell at sea. What about... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is one question that has been raised so far that traders, and above all, can go to the market, buy from farmers some products that he has and practically with that block he makes, pay VAT and everything else and buys the product in such a way. However, you will see what will happen and such a law if passed then is passed in the second, third month at the latest on the fourth, that those who apply it have 8 months to apply it, and we bring it practically a month before it starts to be applied with a series of regulations that no one has seen. And colleagues and colleagues don't start the world with one government or end with it. I think that in Croatia it should finally come to what they did well before you to continue and to improve it, not eliminate it. Thank you very much. We will be restrained because of all this about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21289	Thank you, too. Four replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21290	The honourable representative, of course, and absolutely, and I support her in a well-organized state, we said. An orderly state is certainly not a state that, with new authority, does not begin history, nor will it end up with 51 billion tax debts. Therefore, a regulated state is not a repression if only records are introduced in another way of all those taxes that are normal for payment. A well-organised and democratic state is not a country where the press of the Financial Police or Inspectors is strengthened, but rather a state that neatly provides conditions for one normal, modern way to control and record complete traffic. Because all the participants in payment were those natural, were legal persons, were craftsmen, were only independent natural persons who were doing their own activities, all they had to do and record. And in your debate, I saw basically one key to your grudge, which is 5,000 kuna cash. Well, it's because you mentioned that we have to feel the time we live in, so this law feels the time we live in, and that's that those things you mentioned at the banks and the fishermen and the caterers have this need to use cash normally that will have their own entry account to work, to work. This is exactly the way to feel the time to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21291	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll start with this last thing you told your colleague Gjurkovic. Do you know how much more expensive manipulation and payment traffic is with cash than using any cash-free payment? So are you aware of how much an entrepreneur loses and who generally manipulates cash in relation to a cash-free payment? Another thing, every cash payment opens the way to the gray zone. Well, after all, that's why you're on your own because our people would say you're jumping into your mouth, which is why you're proposing this law to control those who do business with cash. And on the other hand, you give them far greater amounts. And as for 51 billion so I said open here, so I'm not running away from something, it's kind of pompous if it's that simple, so why hasn't at least 10 billion of those 51 billion been charged this year? But maybe 100 million kunas were charged. The problem of these 51 billion is something else, and we need to look at the genealogy of it, and then we will stop fighting in the Parliament. And as for your colleague, don't be angry, but this is the data you're going to get with this is just data so the inspectors can go to the field tomorrow and determine something or they'll make a reference in the office. Without human work, this account records don't mean anything. Therefore, just because an account is recorded doesn't mean anything to anyone, but if someone suspects someone's traffic, then they'll see how many accounts are recorded and they'll have to do it again whether the referent or the inspector. However, I say you were alive and seen. We've also seen that law on outstanding claims, the IRS and the FINA with no settlements and no effect. So we'll see what this one's gonna be like. But unfortunately, I repeat, look what's going on in the region. Some have introduced something four years ago, and now they're abolishing, and you'll see why, precisely because of what's going to happen in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21293	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Nadica Jelash. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21294	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, fellow Shuker, you're surprised this law allows for a cash payment of up to 5,000 kuna. So, I will remind you that in the last two years of the entry into force of the Law on Payments, there was actually no limit in cash payment or to be quite precise in cash could be paid up to 105 thousand kuna what was the limit under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. So always, as far as I know, there was this limit, that restriction in the payment of 5 thousand kuna cash. He hasn't existed for just the last two years, and it's now being corrected by this fiscalization law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21295	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21296	My colleague Jelesh... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21297	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21298	Cash payments in the Republic of Croatia were up to 800 kuna. The only amount paid by the employees could be beyond that. Therefore, that clearly stands. And this story about a natural person who could have raised 105,000 kunas and gone to pay someone a bill is simply incorrect. This provision on 100 thousand kuna has been introduced that all transactions that are more than 100 thousand kunas must be controlled, that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering must be controlled purely because of the fact that negative flows are ultimately part of the international terrorism prevention programme, etc. I wouldn't talk about it right now, but in Croatia, practically, at least for the last 10 years, more than 800 kuna bills couldn't be paid in cash except for the payment of these. And you also know exactly how to determine a cashier's maximum. The treasurer's maximum is determined on the basis of the average traffic of the cash register, and the cashier's maximum means that at the end of the basic day, you must not have any more of the cashier's max. This cash maximum serves you for the start of the next working day depending on what kind of activity it is, etc. So, these 5 thousand kunas, let us now, we can shoot each other one way or another, if we want to put order in business with cash, then let's not let the bills of 5 thousand kuna be paid, so I think at least we'll agree to that definition because paying an account of 5 thousand kuna is something that will make a mess in Croatia and you'll see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21299	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21300	Here is a colleague I can really agree that Papaya on Zrć or here some catering facility or cafe is not the same as Zrinski in the Levanska varosha near Djakova and indeed, but also the other, therefore all three will have the same obligation, the purchase of a fiscal register regardless of whether they are in one undeveloped area or in one rich region. They'll also have the costs of getting everything that goes with the fiscal register. The only question is who and how will be able to fill that fiscal register today when we have almost 345 thousand unemployed, when cities are empty in the night, when young people no longer go to the bars, when purchasing power I told Agent Cain that in Croatia there is a huge difference between rich regions where this purchasing power is almost 7,000 euros, and in Slavonia, 3,000 euros. And this, I agree, is to introduce order, but by the way that happiness is done to the poor and legal and physical persons who deal with one type of activity without any help from the ministry, I believe this will not contribute to the introduction of order but rather to the opening of an increasingly larger and larger gray zone. Why the difference between rich regions and poor regions in Croatia can be asked all governments so far from the 1990s until 2012 because somewhere in the early 1990s, the beginning of the Homeland War this disproportionate at the top of development was not like today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21301	Thank you very much. Reported ok. a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll pick up the plate next time. So, my colleague Vinkovic agrees fully with you, and the best indicators about when the Minister of Tourism boasts that there are so many tourists and when you look at the budget page, it is not seen at all on excise fees. So that's the best indicator. Secondly, I'm sure that when you look at the whole town, there may be a couple of birds that work relatively well and these other livers, and those village shops are God, so there are so people have a place to buy bread and oil. The same story can be told at my house in Gorica by 300 and something else maybe even a dozen do some good work, and everyone else lives. And now are we going to make people who live 15 or 10km from a retail chain that if they want to buy basic supplies for life that they have to drive to buy it or at the end of the day, so why go to those stores where the bar is if it's such a problem why they're not offered a shower. If we've raised up to 235 thousand borders to enter the VAT system, then I'll offer you some occupations and cobwebs. How are you going to control the hairdressers, like, some of the things you can't trace with this? What do you think people are going to report them to someone if you give them 500 kuna? Well, that's what it is. the false solidarity that exists, and it simply won't happen, or we're turning the country into a bunch of cynics and those snitches like it used to be back in the old days. However, the Croats have burned themselves and will not agree to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21303	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21304	Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke about regional development and regional opportunities as well as what your colleague Vinkovic was talking about. And in the truth in that part there are different possibilities than those that in the city someone can go to some megacentres and maybe choose between different and cheaper prices in some way but of course those who are in a very complex situation mainly in rural areas that have several of these small shops perhaps one, two guesthouses but all the less. And most of all, the difficult situation was said of agricultural products. Agricultural products every day are all less unfortunately witnessed than milk producing milk, we know why, etc. And what happens now? In these circumstances, of course, purchasing power is small in the countryside in rural areas. No cash, no money, no credit cards, no options. People live under very difficult circumstances and now in these circumstances if they still have this little shop that barely survives. In my midst, one, two, three certainly will by the new year or in the next time put the key in the lock. What's going on? The final result will therefore increase that army of unemployment, and the villages will remain those environments for field tourism only when they come into those areas will have nowhere to buy this or that. There's a big problem, and I think there's a huge disproportionateity in regional possibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21305	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I think that the question that has already been raised after these several discussions and differences in thinking and views between the ruling coalition and the opposition is that it is the fundamental question that the tax interest of the Republic of Croatia is those who are barely living and living or are tax interests of those who have it. Thus, a shopping centre in Zagreb turns more money than any merchants and caterers, for example, in Osijek-Baranja County combined a shopping centre in Zagreb. And now the question is whether it's the tax center's interest or whether it's a Stipe or Jure's interest that has a store so someone can buy a kilo of bread and a liter of milk. That's what I'm talking about, that every law that introduces order should be welcomed, but it's also necessary to support some of them to survive. And that's why I said that on behalf of the club that we need to think about regional development of the Republic of Croatia uniformly... They are exhaled in the city of Zagreb but let alone in some smaller cities. [[The speaker away from the microphone doesn't understand.]] So today for some things you can't find to fix something small in your house or let's say what I know, look at how many cobblers, clocks, or any other traditional occupations you have today. How many of you in Slavonia have occupations that don't make beautiful Slavonic costumes? You don't have them practically and what you have with this fiscal... you'll destroy because they're not meant to be released and that's our objection. It is not our objection that those with today's 5, 6, 10, 15 thousand kuna traffic should not protect them they must report, but our interest is precisely small which in these times of crisis will unfortunately fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21307	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's just a brief matter of discussion from Mr. Shucker. You've opened a few questions here, so here's what I honestly don't understand. We're all committed to curbing the gray economy, when the government sets out a concrete act to combat the gray economy, then the problems are now. First you said timing, the timing is consistent with reducing the VAT rate from 25 to 10%. You said that if we were to introduce the fiscal register now it would create an army of unemployed. I don't understand it now if we're reducing VAT from 25 to 10%, shouldn't that encourage employment, should that stimulate production growth, increase traffic, increase employment? Now I don't understand, we, when we raise VAT, have an army of unemployed, when we reduce VAT by an even bigger army of unemployed. So right now, I don't even understand in that part where ok. I agree, unfortunately, it's a difficult economic situation but we've told this very part of the VAT reduction from 25 to 10% you'll get rid of it in that part and the margins of those caterers who will actually be able to cover this cost. What you said here means about timing and about this high unemployment rate, I just don't get it. We would now cancel 0% of all in 0% of VAT, which means increasing unemployment. I don't understand these unemployment rates with VAT cuts. Here's the thing. That's one thing. On the other hand, you said there was a very high culture of billing in the Republic of Croatia, only there's a little bit when they come in there at night, a little bit in the computer doing something and it's like this, and we're just saying it. If there is a very high culture of accounts, where this problem is that you and you here detected that in the evening when he spins back those accounts that we say that you can't do it, you just have to be connected to the tax administration. So that's exactly what we're talking about, so he's issuing the bill, there's no problem. I don't see any problems at all like you said there's a very high culture of issuing accounts, then there's no problem with this law. No problem at all. So we just want what you've noticed right here that at the end of the day when they're returning that traffic just to have an Internet connection and I don't see why we're afraid of new technologies, why we're afraid of new technologies I don't know. You're here saying the neighbors gave up on it, and now we're in the middle of it. I'd say here's all these days the neighbors are calling on us. I think Croatia is better than neighbours in the region, that we are better at financial discipline, that we are their role model. We're a role model to them. This is all showing these last days that we are the neighbours in the region and we will establish this and we will continue to be the leader in the region and as far as financial discipline is concerned, we will be the leader in the region as regards the economy and the leader in the region is shown, what must be recognised by your merit in the EU. So we are the leader in the region, but we will show that we are the leader of the region in the economy. We get caught all the time in the region, so one of the most developed, most social state in the world has a fiscal cash register. The fiscal register has one Sweden, what's the problem? So we just need to determine the level of public services that our government wants to provide. What you said is not important which government, meaning with a very high level of budget we agreed is a very high level of public service, that the government is a very high level of public service to citizens. I don't see any problems in that part that actually introduces order, or that if it does exist, and we all agreed here that there's a certain part of the gray zone to apply. You also said about regional underdevelopment, so I don't see any problem if you said they were doing the accounts neatly, etc. It won't be a problem. So now we're saying okay, what we're going to do in the regions is someone can issue an account, someone can't issue an account because this one's small, this one's not big. We said there's a part of it and you know it well, one part of the flat-rate flatulent, if it's not even in the VAT system, it won't even have to work this part. We also said if there was a fiscalization that he would have a book account where he would give, the account number would be that he would give out of that book. So I don't see any problem if there's no Internet connection, we've arranged it with HACOM, if there's no confirmation, if there's no Internet connection, there's no problem, he'll still issue an account like you said he's issuing an account today. So there's no cost to that little obligor. I don't see what this panic is about, or perhaps some misinformation. So now he's issuing an account and he's still going to issue an account, he's just going to have regular numbers, he's going to come for the book, and he's going to orderly issue an account with what you said to a little twist that's in them. I wouldn't want to create a face of repression here. Respect for the law is that it's repression. That's not exactly what I'd say if we had this discussion. We've decided on the simplest solution, we've decided not to be high purchase costs for... but to establish an Internet connection. This is just about one act, establishing an Internet connection with the tax administration. It's the only key... in this law. That's all we're talking about, nothing else. That's all we're talking about, we're using new technologies, and now we've opened up a lot of questions. Here, I think from your debate you'll now see how much trouble there is. We're just establishing an Internet connection with the tax administration so if it's the establishment of repression, then I have to admit that it doesn't understand some basic economic parameters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21309	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Four replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, you obviously didn't listen to what I was saying, so you obviously don't know what the situation is on the ground. When I was talking about regional development, then I know exactly what I'm saying. At no point did I say that someone is against the introduction of order, but those who are fiscally interested in the state. The ones I've been telling you about are fiscally not interested in the state. Second of all, don't say you're reducing VAT. You are reducing VAT by just one small segment of Croatian businessmen, and these are the hosts. The VAT in tourism of 10% was introduced 6 or 7 years ago and if you had a package of 10% VAT arrangements was in tourism and for that food you had a package of arrangements. But there's something else. How many restaurants in Croatia are visited according to the standard you can see it every day, but you with the 5% raise, not by putting down, say, the rates on meat, fat and milk to 10%, you carry a terrible burden on Croatian citizens. You, with the increase that you have to get into the European Union of bread, milk and everything that's at 5%, if you'd put your meat, oil and fat down to 10%, and that would be financially in your budget here somewhere, then you could be talking about tax neutrality. And you, as well as raising your rate from 23% to 25%, hit the pocket of Croatian citizens because if every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has to buy something in the morning, which is a kilo of bread and a liter of milk, he simply has to buy it today because it's something you have to have in the house and you're raising VAT from 0% to 5% and you can't say that you've made tax discharge. Same story as the income tax. So you hit all the salaries over 5500 kuna with a higher income tax rate. So let’s not talk about something that simply doesn’t stand. And I repeat, you fiscalize the ones we're talking about, which we all agree on here, you can introduce without a problem, but your problem is these tiny and small and your problem is these in rural areas, and personally those in the areas of special state care, and so there's no money.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21311	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21312	This is interesting to me, who was the boss of this Ministry of Finance's former. There's no one here against the fight against the gray economy and the introduction of order. No one, really. However, you must understand that this is a new obligation. It's not just an Internet connection to the IRS. The establishment costs between 11,000 kuna and 20,000 kuna. It's easy for someone to pay. This Mega center also has a mega centre far easier than one caterer in Slavonia. The VAT did not decrease but you increased it, although plan 21 said it would reduce it to 25%. The second question is how important it will affect the state budget of the Republic of Croatia's reduction in VAT for catering to 10%. It was introduced for tourism. When I do not see or see tourists eating pajamas on our Adriatic, eating Slavonian towers, eating all of our famous gastronomy but eating lamb from Romania imported, eating cans from shopping centres, of which neither Croatian production is particularly continental Croatia that should be closely related to tourism, food production especially Slavonia and Baranja is of any use. It's the only truth and the only fact. Today in the government, the same tax exemption from Croatian citizens is the introduction of a new tax, a property tax which a week ago as Linic called it a property tax and not in the amount of those Turkish 10%, but is the amount that a normal citizen who saved through his salary will not be able to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21313	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21314	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Deputy, you said you didn't see the problem in regional underdevelopment. Well, I want to point out that it's a terrible big problem. In regional underdevelopment and rural areas, there is a terrible problem and it is existential in nature. The OPGs fail every day, the purchasing power has fallen completely. So you can also introduce the Internet satellite whatever you call it, but there's no money in cash, no credit cards. There's the biggest problem in these environments. The number of unemployed is growing. And the other thing you're saying is I don't understand. So I'm asking you to try to understand. I invite you to the rural area to see so that you understand what difficulties are and how this peasant and farmer lives. Here's the only way I can help you understand the problem of villages, rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21315	Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21316	Thank you very much. I didn't tell you that I don't understand and that there's a regional difference that it's actually clear to all of us that there are regional ones, and it's actually a big crucial problem that is actually in front of all of us to reduce that regional difference. I was just saying when you were saying that in regional differences there's something about publishing, non-accounting, I'm just saying there's got to be a unique billing. That's what we're talking about, and regional differences, unfortunately, exist. Unfortunately, there are regional differences, and that's what's ahead of us to try to cut them down. I didn't, don't say I said it, and about understanding or misunderstanding I just wanted to answer this part that introducing a fiscal cash register would increase the unemployment rate. That's what I'm talking about. And that's why I'm saying if he's going to cut down a certain part of the industry I'm telling you about the economy I'm talking about. You understand? If you're reducing a certain portion of the tax press to this part of what Mr. Shucker said right now in one part of a small number, come on ok. Now there's a small number of these caterers that are in that part of it, to say that they release one part of the cash in that part and that they should actually encourage employment, not by reducing VAT that they will increase. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21317	Next replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Don't comment nicely from the point of view, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21318	Thank you very much. Dear President, Deputy, I would like to say here as well as my colleague Shuker that a picture of the current government is being created here according to tourism that says we are reducing VAT in tourism from 25% to 10%. My colleague Shuker said nicely that we have already had a 10% VAT in tourism in the part of the accommodation since 2006 and that is 60, 70% of the total income of Croatian tourism. Here's an attempt to say now we're affecting the 30% reduction in VAT to 10%. I am experiencing this once again as the overall policy of this government in a way that I have already said here in jumping into the pockets of Croatian citizens' wallets. And as for experience with fiscal cash registers, countries in the region that already have several years to give up because experience has shown that the whole system comes down to the payment of certificates and unnecessary costs to the cash registers. Because if we think our caterers have no way of avoiding what you want to achieve, it means they don't join with the IRS before the billing, then you're very wrong about it because I say there will be a problem of inspection, because we can't have 1,000 inspectors sitting on the terraces of Croatian cafes and catering facilities every day to clean up the daily traffic of all these catering facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21319	Thank you, too. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the turn of the HDSSB club and the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic's first part, and the second part of the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21320	Here's Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs, so here's the deputy minister's reference here in the draft law on the introduction of these fiscal registers is actually a tool for curbing the gray economy and simply establishing internet connections between trade and the IRS. But I think that these internet connections that will be established will be one of the most expensive Internet links likely in the history of the Internet, given that these relationships will cost a variety of legal and physical individuals tens of millions of kunas. That Internet is going to be very expensive. And since the establishment of that internet, the benefit for the Croatian state as a whole is that it will only have operators and sellers of these services of which it has very little to do with the Republic of Croatia. But let me get back to the problem. What's unrecognizable here has been before and is now unrecognizable except for the introduction of order which method is like an ax to a tree, like an ax to a hive. So, the categories are not clearly defined, or the Proposer did not want to make it clear who he was really targeting and of course it was easy to answer who he was going to hit, and who he might have had to bypass. We read that AGROKOR or KONZUM will introduce 3.5 thousand such fiscal accounts. I don't think anyone has the illusion that one of those big chains or other big chains that work in the Republic of Croatia will turn their published accounts and take them back in the evening. Is there even a doubt that even with the promoter, for example, that these large chains, the large trade chains cheat on the Croatian state? And what, for example, is the goal of introducing, for example, these fiscal registers in large trade chains? Does anyone expect them to turn tens of thousands of bills in the evening and falsify already issued accounts? So, what do we get? Under 1st general introduction, and of course every man in line at the cash register will have to wait a little while until feedback is obtained and it will actually make it difficult for people to flow into these malls. They will get another additional commitment, it will cost them millions and millions of kuna, and what will Croatia get? When it comes to major malls, do we expect them to cheat? I don't think any of us expect the big shopping malls to be fifty changing already issued accounts. I don't see the point at all, say, when it comes to big malls. Now when it comes to small, what Mr. Shucker used to say, these little shops that work in villages and that live, let's be honest, so they go to this big mall, load into a van a bunch of products on a discount, and then bring them to their village 10 or 15 km away and sell them. They so, a good part of them, do so. I wouldn't really want to offend anyone right now or that's my intention. It will make their business really difficult for them and probably one part of them will go out, they will. And the question is how much of their total mass is at all traffic per day, monthly and how will the Republic of Croatia profit in this whole story, in which way the interest of the Republic of Croatia will be protected by shutting down such small shops, for example by the villages. Now, there must be certain categories that the Ministry of Finance, the IRS are targeting and they don't want to go public, there are. And one question that's been raised to me since the beginning is why didn't you have enough courage to target certain categories and introduce fiscal cash registers to them? This would be a good step to see how this system works at all and under 2. we would strike straight at those you probably and justifiably believe that these accounts really work out every night, every month, that they have big traffic on black and that a good part of their incomes don't actually pay and do not meet their obligations to the state. Because there is no question everything can be done, but somewhere there must be a limit between how much the state has to press constantly and how much freedom and the right to breathe should be allowed to its citizens. Because if we constantly refer to the rights of both people and minorities and women and groups, so we must also refer to that taxpayer's right and to the legal and physical persons so that they cannot be touched suddenly. And as some have previously mentioned, the possibility of a cereal for those who have relatively small daily, weekly, and monthly traffic. The other day I was riding a bus, i.e. I went from Zagreb Bus Station and you have one toilet there and there is a lady sitting in that bathroom and there is a cashier's register outside the entrance and issuing a bill of 3 kuna to anyone who enters there. And now he'll still need to be fiscalized, I guess, and he'll be waiting for his return. Well, I think we've led some things to nonsense. We simply brought them in to become meaningless in themselves. There must be some level of trust. The fact is that a whole series of legal and physical persons to cheat on the state, that there's a lot of money traffic on black and in the gray zone, but this kind of blows indiscriminately this isn't any selective measure that's trying to in one part where there's a kind of blood flow of money trying to stop it, but it's one of these kind of blow all over everybody so how to reach, get it. And I think that this indiscriminateness actually stems from the fact that the proposer of this law is not ready to make it clear who he's actually targeting. Then they'll all go the same. Also, another group that is also mentioned are craftsmen, small craftsmen, those production crafts. For example, among those excluded in Article 5, the sale of their own agricultural products on markets and open spaces is listed in point 4. Maybe if I didn't know if there was a chance that they could be added here and those little craftsmen who exhibit their products on these same markets. Yeah, there are those people. But not the ones who import anything but the one who actually produced that carpet grinder or who produced some kind of hat or who because he produced some kind of jazz so whoever actually produced something in his craft made something and brought some kind of plaque or fair maybe he would enter this category under point 4. I'll have Agent Vinkovic now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21321	And respected representative Zoran Vinkovic for the same HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21322	Thank you. Here's what my colleague Djurovic said is justified in any case, because the order really wasn't in most cases so I don't repeat everything he said on behalf of the club. Here I will welcome the fear and trembling of Croatia as they call it the Director of the Tax Administration, although it should not be fear and trembling but rather at the service of the citizens as they call certain women's weeks. And above all, he would insist on the Ministry of Finance according to the Tax Administration to accept this request from the Croatian Chamber of crafts that this law be extended to 1.7, because members of the Chamber of Commerce are probably and know better why they are precisely seeking a prolongation until 1.7, and I would say justifiable reasons and adjustments to this law itself. On the other hand, I'm surprised that this is in Article 5. For example, it stands. that the Internet connects the fiscal register will not have toll collection. Whether it is accidental or intentional since it is a society ready for concession, we are now adapting that the new future concessionaire and the Croatian state will not have insight into the toll collection itself. There is also free to receive payments for participation in games for happiness and fun games. Well, here's almost even that weakest-visited cafe or pub in the farthest part of town has that machine or has a sports bookshop where many young people who may not have the money to go out to the city spend, are in debt, and sometimes they deprive their families who are primarily victims of such addiction. And this is the best thing that will obviously happen through this Article 36a and so far, it has been a particular case where up to 2 thousand kunas are scheduled to be fined by a customer and any recipient of an account that does not keep a issued account after leaving the business space. So the obvious intention is similar to that of that law on public offenses, which, fortunately, was withdrawn when the basis of that law was supposed to form a jumping brigade of the MUP that would jump on young love or old love couples or all those who love love in nature and charge penalties, would it be a major disturbance of public order and peace. So now we can expect in front of every bar in front of a shop item in front of each trade, we can expect one taxpayer who will jump up and ask to look at the account because it is one of the measures with a real estate tax as one "large" social release of the population, which is today in the government of stories I have not seen the law but since I trust Minister Linic and his understanding of the tax discharge of citizens I believe that today's law in the government will also be a major blow to the standard of citizens. So all citizens in the Republic of Croatia can expect to be jumped before trade by employees of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance and asked for an account and charged a fine. I just don't know if they'll carry a fiscal cashier's account, too, if they'll be connected to the Internet. On the other hand, the whole series of laws passed and proposed by the Ministry of Finance do not show much effect that the standard of living in Croatia has been increased, that unemployment has been reduced from these major measures. Today we probably already have nearly 350 thousand unemployed. At the end of the bill issued to the catering facility at the local self-government unit store, there is no lip. So there's nothing from the announced decentralisation. There is a growing and larger difference between the regions in Croatia, a growing gap is being created between the people of Slavonia and Baranja and developed parts of Croatia, not in political terms, but above all in purchasing power in the standard in the number of unemployed. Here's to the end of one message, and since I've talked a lot to the craftsmen, one SDP craftsman from Djakov, who is like this, I won't quote the whole message to give Linic a public welcome and ask him to lend $11,000 to the fiscal register and to the Internet connection because all these measures made by the Croatian Government have led to the fact that he can no longer put an end to it. Therefore, we believe that the HDSSB Club believes that, in addition to this law, the Ministry of Finance should also propose a measure to enable all bonds of fiscalisation through the release of part of its obligations to purchase and fiscal cash registers and traffic so that they are constantly linked to the Ministry and so that they cannot in their business do not let God fool the same Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21323	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21324	In that case, therefore, and with this request from the HDSSB, if that does not happen, we will not accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21325	Thank you very much. A replica of respected representative Branko Hrg has been reported at the presentation of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21326	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Djurovic, said it was not known that the promoter did not give the target group. I think the target group here is very well seen, and she knows, she's in a few categories. First, a small group is targeted because they'll pay for it, and we'll destroy them. The other target group is operators, which is already spoken here, they will earn. The third target group is certainly the supplier that will equip. After all, the target group is the state budget because it will eventually be well filled. But all that was said here was also Mr. Deputy Minister talking about not seeing where the problem was. Well, let's not see where the problem is, of course, there's a different problem from the office in Zagreb and from some small crafts, inn, shops, somewhere in the rural part of Croatia. There's a difference in the problem. We don't see it with the same eyes, the glasses are a little different. I think we should free all the little ones in the rural areas of that tax at all, whatever, that people can live there at all, that they're not going to our budget burden, that they're not social. We make them be social. There'll be 11,000 kunas to someone who can't be paid, and they'll keep closing what's already been said here. One more thing in this part. I am pleased that now it will actually improve the charge of the budget based on reduced VAT, and then I suggest that since the HSS has implemented the action and requested, it insists that VAT be reduced to food, that the same model applied there, so that we allow the citizens of smaller VAT on food, and in this way we will collect much more into the state budget, everyone will be happy and happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21327	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have expired at 10.42 hours for the application of the debate for 10 minutes on this subject. Another announcement that I would not like to get up as a practice of work, President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Valter Boljunčić asks that members of the Committee gather at 11:30 in order to hold a session in the Chamber of Janko Drašković 202 on the second floor, held a session of the Committee. Now we've exhausted a list of registered clubs to discuss clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first representative is a respected Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21328	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Director of Tax Administration, colleagues and colleagues. Tax evasion in Croatia is definitely one of the biggest state enemies, as many as some try to reduce the problem. In fact, the annual tax returns point to just incredibly low daily traffic, which are reported for example in catering, in trade and other service activities, and people simply cannot believe that someone is worth opening the door in order to achieve daily turnover of 100 kuna. And the fact is that in Croatia the most open society in the activity of trade is the most open because it is exactly where it is expected that the fastest and easiest way to say it is is to make a profit. However, these very low turnovers warn of the failure to issue invoices and manipulations in practice, i.e. the unambiguous demonstration of cash payment traffic. However, that tax control was also extremely complicated, complex and extremely expensive, since it was essentially a question of supply, i.e. to its own inventory and their comparison with the traffic shown. This fiscalisation law, which we are talking about today, whose application begins on 1 January 2013, should primarily facilitate that tax supervision and introduce order in the payment of cash tax. Through all this, which is one positive dimension of this legislative proposal, the law should contribute and protect consumers. What I have to stand up to at first is the observation of the HDSSB club that the law should be selective, so it should be focused precisely on tax evasion. Whoever can identify the exact tax evasion right now is one bad message to me. The law must apply to everything, so those who have paid taxes neatly so far don't have to be afraid of anything, and those who haven't done so will finally have to start paying taxes because it's their constitutional obligation. The most objections to this law relate to the cost of fiscalisation which actually says that citizens are still not familiar enough with all the details of this law. The law is a compromise solution, based precisely on the correlation between expected results, expected effects and accompanying costs, which has maximum respect for the specificities of individual groups of taxpayers, which specifically means that for small taxpayers, these are natural persons whose income is determined in a flat-rate amount, so our co-priceds, the process of fiscalisation is ultimately simplified and highly cheap. In order to fulfil the fiscalisation obligation, small bonds will not have to issue invoices through electronic payment devices such as those for other debtors, but will issue invoices from a specially marked account which must be certified by the Tax Administration before the application begins. Therefore, their obligation to fiscalise is only to issue invoices on certified blanks and no additional costs they will not have. It is important to stress that the sale of its own agricultural products in markets and open spaces is completely excluded from fiscalisation. So that's what I'm saying in the context of it when I'm talking about physical persons bonds of fiscalization. What is further positive in this law is that, in fact, a number of economic activities are already in the beginning to be excluded from the obligation of fiscalisation, regardless of what these activities must issue. It is about activities where the scope of the job can be successfully monitored in another way, for example by measuring the scope of consumption, rather than necessarily by the fiscalisation process. It should also be added that the list of activities listed in the law as non-fiscalisation bonds is not final. The law provides for the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, could subsequently free itself from fiscalisation and other activities, hence those threatened small trades that were discussed in front of the HDZ Club by counterpart Schuker. So you can't really say that this law is cruel. However, he is flexible and susceptible to his operationalization of change. The flexibility of the law is also reflected in the fact that some objective life situations are respected. For example, the interruption of the online connection or the failure of the electronic charger and that acceptable solutions are offered for these situations if they happen on the ground. Finally, I must mention two more positive things in this legislative proposal that we have already said. The first thing is the rules of payment with cash between the fiscalizers. Specially for the purchase of products and services can be paid in cash by one account up to 5000 kuna. The second positive thing is that this law eliminates a kind of vacuum related to the identification of a cashier’s maximum that existed, and I have already said something about it in the last two years, since the entry into force of the new Law on Payments. In the absence of a defined cash maximum, companies could practically pay in cash up to an amount of 105,000 kuna, which is the ultimate limit under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. The other thing is, of course, it wasn't done. I'm talking about it for as long as it takes. The cash maximum is now determined depending on the size of the economic operator under the Small Economy Incentives Act, with the cashier’s maximum being determined as a whole, and then the obligor can subsequently determine the cashier’s maximum for all its organisational parts, so drive, shops and the like. The obligor is obliged to make a daily market, which is important, above the level of the cashier’s maximum deposit in the bank, and in particular is required of those obligors who have their dues and unpaid liabilities on their accounts. They must neither pay cash nor keep money in the register. The current government is very categorical, determined to establish order and tax discipline. So, to establish this one culture of payments that has been lost in the impasses of Croatia in the last twenty years. The point of fiscalization is to put in place control of cash traffic. In view of the fact that it is the citizens who are, to the most extent, the participants in the cash payment for the purchase of certain products and the purchase of certain services that are undoubtedly the most important link in the fiscalisation process. And it is therefore terribly important that the state raises the level of their awareness with constant education of citizens how much damage it seems to be to not give up accounts. The amounts charged without issuing an account allow individuals to charge private accounts without settlement, so without participation in the settlement of joint commitments. In fact, citizens are not even very often aware that by not asking for an account are actually participants in tax evasion, with evasion having multiple consequences of creating unfair competition with regulated tax payers until the budget is left without the revenues necessary for the functioning of the state, so the state must find some other alternative sources of funding, and that ultimately all goes on the back of Croatian citizens again. So let me get this straight. In order for fiscalisation to succeed as we have imagined it, it must be a joint project of the state and citizens for the benefit of both the state and the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21329	Thank you very much. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. He is the first and most respected Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21330	Well, really, if there wasn't this government, we probably wouldn't have a future either, because obviously everything's been moving since the start of this government. I don't know if you've listened well to our exposure. No one was talking about any selectivity. On the contrary, we said we were for the introduction of order, but not in this way. I am openly asking the IRS and the Ministry of Finance how much the fiscal cash register comes, how much is the programme for the merger of the fiscal register with the IRS. It's certainly not free and it's the cost of fiscal taxpayers. The HDSSB has proposed that both the fiscal cash register and the Internet connection go to help all fiscal bonds. On the other hand, I also warned, and I will have to tell my wife to take two ampers where she will be able to settle accounts, because Article 36 says that the customer and any recipient of the account who does not keep the invoice issued after leaving the office or does not show it at the request of the official person. In what time should it be kept, at what distance from business space? Well, I often go to the store, and apparently my pockets will be full of old bills. On the other hand, the basic thing, and there is the problem and the possibility of malfeasance to be released from the fiscal obligation of gambling, sports betting, toll collection, etc. Which doesn't surprise me because we're preparing Croatian highways for the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21331	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21332	Well, a colleague of Vinkovic's sometimes it's not good for you two to speak for the club because then there's this one non-synchronicity in the performances. So Đurovic spoke of the need for selectivity of the application of this law, which you agree with so that it would not be good. And what I want to tell you and what I think is very important, so all the equipment needed to install the fiscalization will be tax-recognized expenditure. That's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21333	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21334	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jelash really doesn't make it clear to me that you're in favour of paying up to 5,000 kuna bills in cash these days. The second thing, when we talk about a cashier's maximum, can you define what a cashier's maximum is for one INA or for, say, the largest trading chain in the Republic of Croatia? Is that cash maximum of 100 thousand kuna divided into every selling place and then by the percentage of how much it turns out? The other thing is, when you have one cash register, and when you have a chain of stores with 15 cash registers and you have one cash register that collects means that the central cash register on it is divided into these 100,000 maxes, I'm just telling you that these 100,000 kunas, but you have, say, companies that don't now advertise a telecommunications house that has a turnover of oho-ho billions, but basically there's no practical need to deal with cash. To them, 100,000 kuna doesn't mean anything to them, but to someone else who has far less traffic, the 100,000 cashier max means a lot to be more operational. However, I repeat these 5,000 kunas are in contradiction with what you propose with this law. On the one hand, you suggest a cost to someone of 10, 15 thousand kuna to catch him 50 or 100 kuna daily traffic, and on the other hand you allow someone with a million dollars to come and take out 5 thousand kunas and pay him a cash bill at a time when people solve it in a few-tenths of a second by Internet banking or something like that. So let's not go back from one side to the Stone Age, and on the other hand talk about something that's the highlight of technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21335	Thank you very much. And the answer to the line, the esteemed representative Nadica Jelesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21336	You just don't want to admit it, and you know it, you know it could always be paid in cash for up to 5,000 kuna. That's right. That's how it's always been, and here we are, and we reregulated it with this law, because until two years ago, so from the entry into force of the new Law on Payments, there was this one vacuum, so it wasn't defined to what amount could be paid in cash. And as far as the cashier's max is concerned, he's very precisely defined in Article 29 of this law. It is said that the criteria for determining the amount to which a cashier's maximum can be found are the size of a fiscalisation obligor in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development. So, according to this criterion, micro-entities of a natural person can up to 10 thousand, a small entity 30 and a medium subject 50 thousand. So it's consistent with the size of the fiscalization bond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21337	Thank you very much. And the third replica and the esteemed representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21338	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Jelash, if I hadn't been with craftsmen and small entrepreneurs and had heard your debate, I would have believed what you said at the moment and said this is something that is really great and to the benefit and happiness of all our citizens. But craftsmen and small entrepreneurs say something else. The HSS has made one printing press and we have talked to craftsmen and they say this game will cost craftsmen and small entrepreneurs and others all who will introduce fiscal registers of around 75m euros. That's what they say. No one here is going to tell the promoter how real this cost is. The truth is, now we should do certain things to actually destroy this little thing that I've said more to survive. You don't have to worry about how he's gonna pay with cash how much that minimum or maximum will be. They don't have people to pay with, so we don't have to worry about the cash because there won't be any cash. Those who pay cash do not buy in Croatia anyway. It's a fact of fact. And again, we're breaking it all over the little ones, and I'm asking the question of who's gonna be responsible for the new ones at the Employment Service, it's gonna happen just like it did with the O.P.G. You've destroyed the OPGs with the same unreasonable policy, and now you're going to destroy craftsmen and small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21339	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21340	... I must say that the financial order in the state is primarily for the functioning of the state and it has its own price, as well as the financial, or tax disorder has its price and that price is terribly high and Croatian citizens pay daily. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] So, by introducing the fiscal tax order, we believe that the burdens of Croatian citizens will be lower. So, establishing order has its price.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21341	Thank you very much. We're going with an individual debate ahead. Now it is up to the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21342	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Well, here's my debate, first of all, by congratulating the Chief of the IRS on all the efforts she's made so far to bring order, of course, and the Minister, the Deputys and the other assistants involved. Tax discipline is something that is extremely important and that is why I am just welcoming all the efforts including fiscalisation in real estate traffic that are trying to introduce this tax discipline. Equal operating conditions should be given to all. So the debate mentioned some selective approaches, I'm decided and absolutely against it because then it turns out that we favor one, and we defamation others, etc., etc. Therefore, all should have equal operating conditions. And this is the task of the state, among other things, and the same conditions of business, or the same conditions of competition on the market, and how they will be exploited is something else. And what I want to point out is that tax is an obligation for everyone and I also see tax discipline as a protection for consumers. Because it's the consumer who pays the tax. Taxes are not paid by the entrepreneur, so when he sets out an account on it he writes what tax is but that tax is always paid by the consumer or the end-user. And the fact that some entrepreneurs, after paying taxes from the end-user to whom they have provided goods or services, do not give that money to the state or instructions to the state budget, is a robbery, which is a robbery of the person who paid the tax, and these are the users. And that's why introducing tax discipline is about preventing a robbery. What does this fiscally interesting or fiscally uninteresting mean? In my view, therefore, all taxpayers in this case were companies, crafts and tax-interesters, which were large trade chains. And as counterpart Jelash also said, Article 20 of the law provides for the possibility that tax collectors and small entrepreneurs, therefore, do not have to run the fiscal register, but rather create accounts through a special account book that will be certified by the Ministry of Finance, so they will not have that entry cost. I would also agree with my colleague Jelash and I would welcome one of the changes in the law that I hold extremely positive because I come from the agricultural area, which is that the sale of my own agricultural products that takes place in the markets and open spaces is exempt from the obligation to fiscalise but the subsequent sale of those products is subject to fiscalisation. The colleagues in the opposition to this measure are a little prone to absurdity. They don't understand or want to understand what fiscalization is all about. They tell us about jobs about losing them, etc., etc. I don't see it that way, gentlemen, because taxes are only paid by fools. Only fools in this country pay taxes and that successful entrepreneurs are those who avoid paying taxes. Well, I don't want to be a fool anymore, and I don't want to be a fool, and I don't want to be anyone who pays taxes, and I think that's why I welcome again all the measures that introduce tax discipline. So, as I said, and when I first read this law, I welcome his adoption and I will support him. And once again, I point out that paying taxes is an obligation for all, and those who are taxing not only have committed an exceptional injury but have thus robbed us and not only us but also all other people who are the ultimate users of services and goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21343	Thank you, too. Your honorary representative, four replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's go in order is Honorable Representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21344	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Hajdukovic, I disagree in one of your findings. You say only end consumers pay taxes which are not true. Do we know that in some papers you have two prices to arrange for certain works? One is the price of whether you agree and deal with tax or tax-free transactions, which means that in that part, not all users are those who pay taxes. And that means tax is avoided by entrepreneurs as soon as they allow for a double price. One with no taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21345	Replica response, respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21346	Thank you very much. Well, that's good. Maybe I'm the one who put it a little awkwardly. So we're talking about an account, and here's my colleague Shucker mentioned that we have a great culture of billing. And in that account you have included VAT. So when you buy bread and milk there exactly writes to you or some other product how much taxes you paid to the state and unit of local self-government if it comes to excise duties etc. And if that entrepreneur or seller in this sense doesn't pass that tax to the State, he stole that money from you, you gave it with intent, so you paid the tax. And what you're talking about is doing business on black is now a completely different story and I agree that it's the same problem that needs to be solved anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21347	Thank you very much. The next replica is Honored Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21348	Well, I'm not one of those guys I haven't even started my colleague Hajdukovic yet, but you've picked up your reply to the line. And here I'd prefer that since you'll be mayoral candidate you won't win the election, that you've made more sure that in this fiscal commitment units of local and regional self-government almost get nothing. From VAT zero, from income tax if we look at this and get 100% income tax both locally and regionally and through decentralised functions, and it is obvious that there is no speech about it. On the other hand, I've asked an unopened question to you, but to the Ministry of Finance, so can you tell me how many fiscal accounts are coming? How much does the software come in? How much does this total mean a commitment to those who become fiscal bonds? I've read this law very carefully. It does not appear here in any article that fiscal bonds will be released and that they will be compensated for buying and software and fiscal cash registers, it does not stand anywhere in the law. On the other hand, if it's such an efficient system, then what do I have to keep an account as a buyer? I don't know how many years I'm supposed to keep it, whether it's three years to go into absolute obsolescence or another long time to get that jumping tax system to sit down on my neck and charge me 2,000 kuna because they're going to find in the tax system that they eventually gave me the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21349	Thank you very much. The answer is not a replica, the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21350	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinkovic, thank you for the forecasts in the local elections, but unlike you, I do not consider myself a populist, or I will not tell people what they want to hear but I will tell them what the situation really is, and the situation is such that tax discipline should be introduced. The revenues of local self-government are not the subject of the debate here but, yes, I agree with you that local self-government units have no income from VAT, they have a cut, they have a municipal fee, and now according to new announcements, it will be a property tax, etc. And keeping the account as much as I remember it was an obligation before. I remember when the VAT was just being introduced you also had those stickers necessarily take account, there were also bodies that controlled whether it was being implemented and that is why we brought the culture of issuing an account to a high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21351	Next replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21352	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, I agree with you that there should be tax disciplines, that no one said in this assembly today that it should not be, but the truth is that we are not all the same in Croatia and this country is not the same for everyone. There are different living conditions, they are very different and it doesn't matter where a business entity opens up, whether it's in a more underdeveloped area or more developed, and that's why we're not all the same. That's why differentiation needs to be considered, so maybe in this part of the tax matter, too, you need to differentiate so that tax policies can be applied more easily. And as for your comment that you are very pleased that agricultural producers will be freed from the fiscal registers, the question of the days when you will do so is just what you won't actually have anyone because more of them are gone, they're dying, they're simply something that's going to go away with this kind of policy that you're implementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21353	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hrg, I am pleased to agree, tax discipline is something to be implemented and I agree with you that there are more developed and undeveloped parts of Croatia. You don't have to stress this to me specifically, I come from Slavonia, from Osijek-Baranja County where the situation is far from great, but the tax obligation is to all colleagues no matter where they are in Croatia, both small and large and medium and Slavonian and Dalmatian and Zagorac. Therefore, the only way we can introduce order into the country is equal treatment for everyone and tax collection. And I will remind you that it is precisely from these taxes that they finance and pay workers who are employed in the public state sector and help those who are unemployed, finance different programmes aimed at measures to reduce this recession, i.e. to start the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21355	And the last replica, honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21356	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know if you're listening to what you're saying. You here at one point said the tax is paid only by fools, it is an insult to the Croatian people and I think he also deserved a reminder from the chairman, but it is obviously not equal for all. Croatian citizens pay taxes. This year it's 110 billion different tax revenues and taxes and you say they're fools because you think the caterers don't pay taxes either. They pay taxes, but you say you don't pay enough. You don't pay as much as we'd like you to pay the tax and that's the fundamental difference. Well, you can't say that people who go to the store every day, a child who buys a certain thing, etc., so they all pay taxes, pay VAT most expensive in the region, 25%. And you say they're fools. So I can't understand you, do you even listen to what you're saying? Where did 110 billion come from, then, who are these people? It is some people from other countries, from Slovenia, from Hungary, etc., there are also those who come and pay certain services, but most of them are paid by Croatian citizens and you say they are fools. I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21357	And this replica corresponds to the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, when I said that it turns out that fools are the ones who pay taxes, I know exactly what I said, and the proof of that is the list issued by the Ministry of Finance on which you have a list of non-payments that are huge amounts that are not paid. Why so, I think we should ask those who have allowed such debts to accumulate. And you know well that if you owe a tax fee of 100 kunas, they call you immediately, you get a warning, etc., and someone who owes 100 million kuna taxes has never received anything before. Well, I'm asking you who's the fool in that story, then that's what I'm asking. I've talked about such fools in the sense that it turns out that those who neatly settle their obligations are fools. We'll forgive some of us, and by us, we'll pay for the blow from the stained veins. That's what I thought, you fools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21359	We continue with an individual debate of 10 minutes. Dear Representative Zlatko Komadin reportedly. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Next up is Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If you allow me to start, I would refrain from the replicas so I wouldn't be warned again if they weren't, the content of what I'm saying wasn't the contents of the replica, but I wanted everyone and even my colleagues who have been telling so far would be able to help me with their answer. What exactly are we deciding today? The final proposal is the law on fiscalisation in cash. My first question to the proposer and to all of us, what is fiscalization? I must admit that neither in this law nor in the dictionaries have I found the answer to that question. So today we are discussing a law that has a name for which no one really knows what it means. And based on that, other definitions in this law are either wrong or superficial, so they don't actually give a real picture of what we're talking about. What I found as an explanation of fiscalization is that it is a set of measures that seek both software solutions and equipment and certain sublegal regulations to introduce order, and we are actually here talking about the introduction of special cash registers or cash registers that will be linked to the Tax Administration if I understand correctly. Therefore, Article 2 when it is said that fiscalisation in cash is a set of measures implemented by fiscalisation bonds, it means even less that we are aware of what we are talking about because this definition is contrary to logical conclusion, as well as rules on how definitions should look, so it cannot be re-descripted by the same terms. So, first question to the Government, what is fiscalisation at all, or if it is the introduction of special cash registers directly and in the Tax Administration, then it would be logical to write it and to call it that. The second big mistake seems to me to be the same definition in the same Article 2 but in paragraph 1 under point 6 where this law defines what business space is, and then later in some provisions you have the obligations of those covered by this unknown phenomenon of fiscalization. What should they do about business space? However, business space is defined differently by some other laws, so you have a law on the lease of business buildings and premises that has been largely applied so far and as a definition of business space. I think it would certainly be a special law in relation to this fiscalization law, so it might be wise instead of having opposite definitions or different definitions of the same term to at least transpose into this law that we're talking about today's definition of business space from the Law on the Rental of Commercial Buildings and Spaces because you have defined that business space is something that under this second law is not a business space at all. I will also warn you of the fact that some of them are and will then be related to my main observation that certain activities can be carried out in rooms that do not assume that they are business premises, but that you can also carry out activities in the apartment, and then it would be a question of whether the provisions of your Law on fiscalisation relate to such activities. But now we will come up with a key observation given the entities to which this law should apply. Everyone agreed, and I absolutely agree with them that there is a need to introduce more order in paying taxes and tax obligations, and I think that absolute unity today ruled. No one thought more order should be introduced, although it is a matter for all to be introduced by means of more order in paying taxes, so you included this law and the activity of a lawyer. I'll say it here, because some colleagues who had a chance to get those memos didn't say it. As a member of the Assembly Committee, I received a letter from the Attorney's Office against the application of this law and to the law's activities. I'll just read what I think is most important in that memo. "It is quite clear that the attorney's office is special with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, not economic activity and one of the aspects of the work of the judiciary, which is certainly not one of the free interests for which fiscal registers are to be introduced." They therefore speak in their letter or protest to be covered by this regulation and on the experience of European countries, and say that the reasons for the specific situation of the lawyer's activity and that in neither of the 23 countries of the European Union where their association carried out the research, fiscal registers for the lawyer's activity have been introduced, so they suggest to the applicant, because even the Prime Minister has received this letter so that the legal activity is not covered by these obligations which you now impose on the economy, trade, etc. I am particularly obliged to point out that they themselves state that there is nothing in this protest of theirs to be excluded from tax obligations in any way. They only point out that the tax charged from the law can be settled in another way. I don't want to talk about this cartoonally, and what it would look like is that every law firm has a cash register to type your data into, but they warn you, and I believe it's been given the opportunity to see, that all the data they would have to enter into these accounts of these cash registers that will be connected to you means that they will also reveal personal data that are prescribed that they can't be disclosed and that they can't be transferred to other bodies. Therefore, I would use this debate to appeal to the applicant again, that given that there are many ways of tax control, consider that such a measure is certainly not a measure that should also be applied to law enforcement, especially given that it and the Constitution are isolated from this category of economic activity. Everything else seems to me to be less important in this law, but I would very much like someone to explain to us at all the concept of this law that we even know what we're discussing today because the answer to the fact that fiscalization is not at all obtained and it seems to me to be far from the subject of the law we're dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21361	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21362	So, according to the Rules of Procedure, because as soon as the MP gets his word and says good day to the president how I can replicate you so that no surprise is needed to lift this tile. On the other hand, here I am, the esteemed representative, quoting the deputy minister's words that this whole law that is full of selectivity, etc., full of different provisions goes even to buyers, he summed up this whole law in a single sentence – it is your establishment of an Internet connection with the Tax Administration. Well, the Internet connection we're going to call that Anta from Tele2 so she's free or we're going to call that Gregor guy also now not to mention VIPs, etc. That someone doesn't take this as an ad and those relationships are pretty cheap. And even those text messages, even those 1,000 minutes of conversation, or I don't know what or T-Com if it's really like that and then you don't go out for a pay phone and you don't say fiscal cash register and the Internet connection doesn't cost anything. And it won't cost you taxpayers anything. Well, that's not how it's going to cost them 11,000 kunas plus still possible that thousands of kunas to establish that free internal connection of yours or a hot line with the IRS or the finance minister. Also today in the government is another law that, and I may be a populist because I tell what people tell me so I transfer it here in the Parliament, it's a wax popul, so it's also going to be peeling skins to these citizens who have been saving not in banks but on real estate. I don't mean those who are on your 51 billion kuna list, you've charged only 100 million or 200 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21363	Replication response, dear Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21364	Well, you've noticed that this is some kind of Internet connection, so I'm in my speech and I'm asking you what the... No, I'm not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What does that even mean that we prescribe this law? We've been discussing a law that's been called completely unknown to us all morning, fiscalization hasn't explained to us yet, and I'm convinced the Ministry of Finance will be able to do that because even the international dictionaries and internet connections that we've been connected with don't answer the question of what fiscalization is. But the closest thing to what fiscalization is under those definitions, this law has nothing to do with it. This law is called the Law on the introduction of cash registers related to the Tax Administration. Now maybe you can say it a little nicer than this definition that I've stated, but it certainly can't be called fiscalization because it doesn't mean anything by itself. If we don't know what we're discussing already in the name of the law, if, as the Deputy Minister was surprised, he didn't understand our remarks, and I don't understand the law at all. The law is called a completely unknown term. So it's a suggestion, if you want to introduce what you're proposing, at least call it so we know what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21365	Thank you very much. Second replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21366	Dear colleague Mlakar you were actually talking about the essence much wider than this law, I often wonder what we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament. Fiscalization could actually be called flosculization. So, making words from the word floscule that would also mean nothing in this law. Just like road monetization says all the time. What's monetizing? Why is it a monetization, a sale? Why do you say that? Some new speech, new words we don't know, and we don't know their meaning, we don't know what's behind those words. I know exactly what this is all about when you're monetizing the roads. He wants to cover up the fact that we want to sell for 30 or 50 years, give someone a rent. So we want to rent roads, but we don't call it that, we call it monetization. Then people ask me what we're going to monetize? I say I don't know. So he says you don't know, but you're in the Croatian Parliament. But the minister never, now former, or first vice president, explained it to me, even though I asked him in writing, which means monetizing the roads. So fiscalization is flosculization, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21367	Replication response, dear Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21368	My colleague Vuksic, you encouraged me to actually react to it in a replica right now because it's only clear to me now, so all the time from the government, we're getting these amazing questions about how they don't understand and they don't understand anything. Well, they don't understand because our language is clearly different. This language in this law could be swallowed for many reasons and even for the new obligations imposed on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But already the name of the law shows that today we've spent time discussing something that no one knows what it means. Neither was defined by law nor did the promoter explain what this fantastic notion is, and we've been coming across today from replicas to individual debates without actually knowing what we're talking about. We're talking about some kind of set of measures, but it's all somewhere in the fog as it is probably an idea for the application of this law because I believe that after a few months, his results will be alive, so let's hope we experience it, we'll be defeating because even those who have fulfilled their obligations honestly as taxpayers will probably be further injured by this kind of government behavior towards them, and those who have avoided paying taxes are clearly doubtful that tomorrow will introduce the cash registers to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21369	Thank you very much. Followed by a replica of Đurjica Sumrak's respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Mlakar, here's the last thing you're saying right now, I'd also like to join your debate and say the opinion of most small, medium-sized businessmen and craftsmen. Here, unfortunately, this law calls itself a large number of hosts who are here and have called me now deeply injured by the government's position and are called thieves. The tax is reportedly to be resolved in this way. They pay taxes and are reportedly going to get rid of the gray economy. That's not how you're gonna do it. I've just received information that Minister Linic said that whoever doesn't have any small, medium-sized businessmen or craftsmen 35,000 kunas to pay the register should go downtown to social work because he doesn't need to work anymore. The thing is, hundreds and hundreds of turns went out and closed down. None of them want to pay taxes, none of them run away from it. Most of them have a lot of employees, fighting every day, fighting every day to get paid. And as for the catering, let's see how much of us are in our cash pocket or in our wallet, and then he comes in somewhere and pays cash. It is paid by cards, of course, registered immediately. To say we're not against the introduction of order, neither are they, but here's a large number of guests from the association say why but also craftsmen who are not only twice as forward but simply don't know how they're asking for a delay, at least 6 months so they can prepare themselves because the programmers who have already taken some just don't know how to build a program for these things yet. There he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21371	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21372	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sumrak, you gave me the opportunity to say something that I was going to completely skip because I thought I was talking about the more important achievements of this law but here's an illustration as to how the Government would otherwise say inconsistently preparing its regulations is an example of an article of the 26th law where it tells you that the buyer and each recipient of the account is obliged to keep the bill issued after leaving the business space. There's a business space you don't even need to get into, so then I don't know what time you're going to go out. And the other thing I'm interested in is this proposal until when do I have to keep those bills? So is that 15 minutes, 7 days or a year because it might happen to me that at the end of the accounting year someone asks about all these bills that man didn't save in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21373	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, today and these past months, it's been said that there's been a tax mess of this, which, however, one month, a month and a half of it has been kept secret from the Croatian public now, has finally seen the light of day, you see the wonderful wonder of fellow Mlakar in the 9th month of last year when the VAT rate was a mess, and when the VAT was 23% of VAT revenues were almost 700 and some million more than in the 9th month of this year when the VAT rate was right and when the VAT rate was 25% or, say, the income from the contribution of 200 million kuna was lower than last year when it was a mess. So, the effect of that tax press was short-term on the 9th, 10th, 11, the 12th month will show a completely different story with the need to say that in the 9th month the final calculation and payment of the value added tax was made for August. This is the data that has been officially published that the value added tax, and this is also seen in the budget rebalance proposal where the VAT rate that has been increased by 8.7% by 2% and VAT revenue is only 5.5%, and that's one thing for all of us to do, that you can't take from someone who doesn't have one. And we can no longer take from Croatian citizens because they simply don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21375	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21376	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shuker, you were talking about what we were trying to spare the government in our performances and now to analyze what it's like when another political option in power was to consider introducing every tax press as a harras or a heavy burden for the people, but when VAT is 25%, it's a normal measure and then it's still telling us how the tax press in the country falls, the only thing we don't seem to be aware of is that yet. But the taxpayers will become aware of this obligation that we will walk as far as I understand with the bills in their pockets for countless long days so that no one will ask us about these accounts but also all of them, and I have only mentioned them all who have done their duties neatly with these measures can remain only injured because they are constantly placed in a basket with individual cases where someone has reported a terrible little income, a terrible little profit, a terrible little traffic, for which there is certainly a question of how true or quality it is. But on the basis of those who have cheated and ignored their obligations, we are now making a commitment to everyone else who has fulfilled their tax obligations, and thanks to whom this Ministry and this Government have been able to function here, too. That's what we're talking about. We are constantly introducing measures against those who behave neatly, and those who have been disorderly so far are completely doubtful that they will be encouraged by this law to bring their business into compliance with the regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21377	Thank you very much. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21378	Thank you. Well, fellow Mlakar, don't be too surprised why so much illogicality in this bill, because they only had six months to agree on this law, at least that's how we got the information from the leaders of the IRS. So I don't know who ran after them and who conducted them and who gave them the time limit that they had to do it in only six months, since they themselves stated that other countries had been preparing this law for two, three, and even four years, but in this lack of time, they made these mistakes, and then I guess we have to justify it. And because of this lack of time, this fiscalisation is going on in three cycles, which is why I don't know if they've considered that there is a certain law in Croatia regarding discrimination, which is why we discriminate against certain private entities, i.e. economic operators, in relation to some other entities. What is our calculation, and what mathematics has shown us is that with 1.1, there should be hosts, that merchants should go with 1.4, and that all others should go with 1.7. If we didn't have enough time to prepare ourselves, if we had only 6 months of time then it would be some logic that we have prepared ourselves better, that we have made this law more quality and that all economic operators in the Republic of Croatia are also treated the same by a certain law because this is discrimination of certain activities, and that is where your attorneyship is being brought up, etc. If we're going for a fiscalization then we're all going for a fiscalization. If the government has decided and made a decision and assessed that only fiscalization is good to get out of this crisis, then okay, we'll do a fiscalization, make it quality, and we'll all go into fiscalization at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21379	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21380	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Tyrelli. You said the government's been working on this regulation for six months, you can tell. The question is how much time did it take for them to be better quality and I believe that now some year of the government's mandate is now in order to make it much better for citizens to welcome their efforts to reduce or at least keep at the level at which they inherited the prices of heating, the prices of electricity, the prices of all possible fuels and everything that you and all of us feel daily on your home budget, everything they feel and those to which these measures should be applied. And I'm afraid that instead of working to protect standards they went even the other way, destroying little by little and this part which is still so, and I dare believe well met my tax obligations. And instead of encouraging growth not to talk about employment, about the disastrous numbers of nearly 350,000 unemployed, we're dating the cash registers that will be online, but I repeat on the basis of a law that even the promoter doesn't understand why it's called what it's called, and then it's very difficult to expect from the entities that this law refers to that they understand what it's about. And here I can take that opportunity again for a cartoon, if I were a caterer first, which I would like to know from someone who makes me such a commitment to explain to me what it is and what this law has prescribed and what this law is like to call it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21381	Thank you very much. We'll hear another individual debate. Honorable representative Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I have the honor and pleasure that at the end of this process, so through two readings, through a comprehensive public debate I say in this House the last of my discussions so that I will try to be as brief as possible about it even though judging by some last debate at least I think we're working on it, that we don't understand things because things are actually quite simple. It actually comes down to a simple rhetorical question whether we want a regulated state or not. I think we want to, and all the governments have said it, all the former governments are just this and this bill and other proposals of the law, so General Tax Law and all those who follow, especially from the Ministry of Finance, proving that they are serious and that they really want a regulated state. My colleagues and colleagues, this law, and you who spoke very well, you know, it's not about any new taxes, about any tax press, it's about fiscal discipline and I don't see it, I really don't see any reason for a model of fiscal discipline to be criticised in the way that it's being criticised and that it's going through a whole other conclusion that doesn't stand here. Mr. Mlakar, you were the last to talk about not understanding this law, he's gone. Unfortunately, he doesn't understand, but here he can come back, he can squeeze the website, and you, others you don't understand, at least that's what you're talking about, the website of the Ministry of Finance. Everything about taxpayers is simply explained in this simple scheme. I think it's more than a reading for every taxpayer. A lot of people understand her. Since 12.10, if I'm not mistaken, even the demo model is present. So people can check directly how things work. So it's really not about any new one, and I'm asking as soon as you don't do it again, because you know it very well, it's not about any press and pressure. It's just a model to charge taxes. We have to decide whether we want to charge everyone a tax and only then do I often say that on this assembly, only when we all start paying taxes can we talk about relative... or reducing certain taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is only then that when we establish this equality that we can talk about. What are the basic advantages of this law? My colleagues spoke before me. So it's a fair match, equal terms for everyone, for all economic operators that are now on the market, but also for all those colleagues and colleagues who will come to the Croatian market with 1.7 when we open it. That is why equality and equality in paying taxes for all raises Croatia's competitiveness and we are all aware of it and does not offend anyone. I have not responded to the replicas of my colleague, Mlakara, but no entrepreneur can insult the fact that some other technical solution now reports its Ministry of Finance on how he paid the tax, but rather vice versa. What, those who have so far done the right thing and been responsible for their country... Someone shut me out. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] When we speak from a consumer's point of view and consumer protection, then all of us, when we are consumers, then we pay the full price of every service and product we buy, at least we think we pay the full price, i.e. to pay the price along with the tax, VAT which is now 25%. We will now become sure that these 25% go for the purposes for which we will determine by this budget, to go for common needs, to go for both the military and the police, but also for schools and hospitals and all that is financed from the state budget. And I think it's important that every citizen knows that at all times. And I think it's very important that we work extra on education. They spoke before that there was a high culture of billing in Croatia. I think it is very good for public education, even with the help of the PR agencies if it is necessary for Croatian citizens to explain how useful this law is for them. And when some service is paid and in these difficult times and they're spending money on something they need to know that money really goes to the right place, not to be taken somewhere else. Let's break that illusion as much as it costs. So it is clear that the Ministry of Finance has opted for a cheaper, simpler solution. So, not as some countries in the environment for the fiscal cash register, but for software that will allow today's technical time, so very simple information according to this scheme, so that's what the IRS will have. The cost of this software is 1500 kuna on average plus 60 kn for certification at FINA. This refers to the grotesque entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia who already have a PC register. Gro entrepreneurs have it, I wouldn't deal with percentages, but they're certainly over 90%. So that cost is there. If the entrepreneur doesn't have something like that, then the costs go up to $3,000, and that's the only real information. This cost is therefore recognised as tax deduction and income tax and profit tax, and it is important that we know that, not to deal with other information. The fourth benefit and that's where I end up with, so the benefites of this whole thing, this resume is therefore indirect effects of this information, actually the quality of tax control and the improvement of tax supervision. It is precisely this information that will enable the Tax Administration employees to do their job more well, organised, and therefore to look for those entrepreneurs who, eventually through tax invasions, do not do what they should and on this side, will enable this effective control and an efficient model to be as effective as possible and to make their efficiency as possible, and then, of course, benefit from the budget, and we will no longer be able to talk about billions and tens of billions of unpaid taxes. And here's the bottom line: I'm also going to commend these changes that have arisen between the two readings. Therefore, primarily in Article 5, which now clearly prescribes which bonds and how they are excluded from this fiscalisation, which models therefore exercise control over their traffic. In one word, this law will certainly enable a more orderly state than it is now and on this side to create assumptions for, therefore, the state and society for which we all want to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21383	Nine replicas have been reported for this debate. The first registered representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21384	Thank you. I think you've asked a key question whether or not we want an orderly state. Some people here obviously don't want to. They'd stick to the one so far the ruling big-time swimming hand, the right pocket that's said in Dalmatia. It's not a state-of-the-art party. It's not even a set-up. This isn't taking anyone. That's where we're told we can't take from the citizens what they don't have. Today, it was released that eight years of HDZ authorities cost 87 billion kuna, so now if some do not, and many do not know very well what they do not have. There's a reference to the caterers. Well, it's as if you don't know that from 1.1 next year, the hosts are reducing VAT from 25% to 10% if they reinvest funds to get their VAT and cancel. You know it all well, and you keep talking about taking something away from someone. Because an entrepreneur in the paper says I'm stealing this country, and it says publicly, I don't pay taxes. Well, it's nowhere in the world for my people, and there are even fewer parliamentarians who advocate it. As if something is taken, no, this is to prevent illegal taking, to introduce order if every worker who works at the factory pays a neat tax and God can also host me, God can also give me a lawyer. Is this gonna help? If he wants to, and I believe he will, then I'm up for it. No one's being taken. And let go of that policy of constant labelling, and you know it's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21385	Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21386	I thank my colleague Jurovic. Although you are not a financier, you understand, of course no one is taken, it is just a new model of tax collection and the construction of an equal society and for consumers, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as raising the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. So an equal game for everyone. And anyone who has so far paid that tax without having any reason to worry, however, this tax will enable him, this cash fiscalisation model will allow him to get rid of potentially unfair competition on the market and to fight with his price and quality of service for market influence, for the sale of goods or services. And I am pleased and thank you for reminding you, therefore, from those data that we had about the average so far reported traffic by certain groups of citizens, it is clear that this tax has not been collected and that it has gone somewhere in private pockets although consumers are paying their services, believing that it goes to schools and hospitals etc. So, I'm glad you noticed that the tax on caterers who are often in the public actually tax on catering and tourism services has been decreasing since 1.01 this year and I am convinced Mr. Jurjevic that we will collect more taxes with 10% of that tax and this model than when that tax was 25%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21387	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21388	You told your dear colleague, did you actually ask us all if we all wanted a state or not? I'm sure we want an orderly state. And certainly no one complains about being in law enforcement. No one is entirely against the fact that everyone has to pay taxes, that everyone has to pay as much taxes as they own, as the state determines. But it's about principle, we're talking about principled attitudes here. If we want an orderly state, then we want an orderly state in all segments. When it comes to the tax press, we're very effective here. That's the state where the sword introduces order. When we discussed yesterday the introduction of order in the Penal Code, the introduction of order to allow workers to receive salaries is said to be just words, pure demagogy, floscule, pure rhetoric. And what is this, what is this in Parliament today? You deny what you're saying. You're only introducing order in one segment of the state. You're introducing order into second segment as well. Well, I guess this country exists because of the citizens. ... No, it's not the right thing to do, it's the workers in the first place. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're God's Social Democrats. It's not right. In turn, the people of this country are first of all citizens, and first of all they are workers. And when we talk about labeling, who's talking about labeling? Well on this right, on my right, the only thing that's been coming is the labels for six months, seven. And while I'm talking about labeling, I'd just like to tell my HDSSB colleague, don't push yourself into the populists, that's where we've already taken over.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21389	Replication response, Honored Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I thank all my colleagues, and in advance, with a number of these replicas, it will allow me to improve my statistic of a parliamentary representative, this is a nine-replicate record for me. And I'm happy to answer and repeat, so I have this opportunity, so through these replicas, that by passing this law, there is no new tax press. So, taxes remain the same in this area, it's just a new model for this equal model that everyone at the same time, so all entrepreneurs on the Croatian market and consumers of their services, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have equal and fair conditions. Well, I guess that's what we're up for. And we're introducing, yes, we're introducing order in this area and this law can only introduce order in this area. Some other laws, and I think that we witness this every day introduce order in other areas. And unfortunately, there's still a lot of work ahead of us, so I guess you and I will agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21391	Next replica, respected representative Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21392	Kola Radjenovic said we should all be the same, that respect for this country and paying taxes that we must be equal. We can determine and think the behavior of individuals in the economy and how they behave. Bajato behavior with expensive cars, cottages and seas and ski resorts, apartments in all our cities, and these individuals have some of their own crafts very small and we are quite cynically able to laugh at you doing yours, and we will do ours. I think they're doing well and I think I'm surprised by this reaction to the adoption of this law, a law that would introduce some equality for us all to be the same in paying this tax. I mean, there are reactions, I'm surprised why there are reactions when this is an interest, and we're all saying that we want to introduce tax discipline. I think this is one order, a way of introducing tax discipline, and so we all need to imagine a little bit why we're opposed to something that's good for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21393	Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21394	I absolutely agree with you, colleague Marelic. Every time you talk, I see the Dubrovnik Bridge and many other projects that aren't there. A colleague, Marelic, says that if I'm not mistaken for my tax obligations, not tax evasives, I'm not mistaken. Imagine how many more tax ejaculations you've been saying to people who've made tax ejaculation how many Dubrovnik bridges without help Europe could do all these years if everyone were to behave the way you do and if the state and now, finally, with this law, would enable some other laws to implement it. The final sentence, such and similar models have all Western European countries and with a far greater culture of issuing bills and all tax payments. So I don't really see any problem with the technical tax collection solution that we've passed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21395	A respected representative, Branko Hrg, also signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21396	Your Honor. Here's a colleague, Rajedinovic, says he's expressing doubts that someone doesn't want a state. Well, of course we all want an orderly state that's clear, but it bothers me when you say this isn't about any new impositions. Well, I don't really get it, maybe I get it a little bit less, but I see a lot of pressure here. I see the burdens on small craftsmen and entrepreneurs. They're big and now they're in the system, they're easily controlled if they want to be controlled. But here we hit again on the small ones, we place a burden on them because the costs of the operator are being incurred they will earn, so they will earn the cashiers, they will earn, all of which will be paid by the entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and of course the state budget will be filled from several sources. And I'm really asking a question, who's gonna be responsible when we get a report in three months with exactly what happened? Who signs responsibility for that? Who's going to resign?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21397	Replicate reply, respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ha, Mr. Hrg, I'm sorry you're seeing some stuff here. So the imposition except for the cost you were talking about is gone, and now you've made it possible for me to repeat it again. Gro Croatian entrepreneurs almost all have PC cash registers, so that's how they function now. On that PC register, it is necessary to install the software of the state has decided not to go with a public tender in order not to potentially favour anyone but has signed a technical solution relatively simply so that many economic operators in the Republic of Croatia can handle it. This cost for an individual entrepreneur is a thousand and a half kuna indicative plus 60kn certification of this software... It means 30 kuna a year. [[/The speaker speaks too quickly.]] So it's about a hundred kuna a month for an entrepreneur. So we can't talk about the burden. The second step one and the second is recognised as a tax recognition deduction, therefore the cost is practically negligible let me agree with you between your thesis that these are some terrible impositions and negligible costs. This is a really negligible expense, and I believe that you'll still have to agree on it if not at this coffee bar we'll have later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21399	The replica was also applied for by the respected representative Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Rajenović here I will now not know which times as well as all my colleagues say that of course we all want an orderly country, we all want our Croatia so that we can all live in it from pensioners, workers, craftsmen, businessmen, all of us, our children and everything. Of course it's hard for everyone. I'm just going to take a little turn now, no one wanted a country where they would pay their taxes 25%, no one wanted to see the communals absolutely all high and still going, no one wanted the state to pay for its apartment, for example. 50 squares in the future another extra tax. And no one's saying no one's against it. We are here not in favour of not paying and not introducing order, but simply what counterpart Tyrelli said and why apostrophe one activity as a thieving activity. You've spoken with several aspects that it's good among other things to prevent a gray economy. Do you remember the Unregistered Activity Act? All of you on this side were making a terrible mockery of that law and saying it was nonsense. I'm curious about how this fiscal cash register is going to work out, and it would be good if somewhere it says how to get rid of the gray economy because, for example, it's going to work out. someone employed 50 or 60 workers in their catering and he properly trusts the salary because they pay him the Virtues and in all other ways of payment but his competition is someone who in his basement unregistered kitchen does caterers so I have to say some ministries, no one asks him, forgive you if you are registered and whether you pay the tax. I don't know a craftsman or a tailor or a furman or a jeweler or something has his own radio. Let me just say one sentence. [[Intruder: Time.]] And he just doesn't have any customers. But these customers come from some bartender and buy all that stuff with him. How's that gonna work out? Then we'll take care of the state. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21401	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21402	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. twilight, you've been talking about a lot of other things and at least this law. Mrs. Sumrak, do you ever go as a consumer to your favorite restaurant do you really think that average restaurant or that caterer of yours makes 500, 600 kuna a day, I guess that's the average bill for three, four people when you leave and only that average caterer if he's an average catererer... RH that it's really average traffic? Do you ever go to a hairdresser, like every woman you probably often go to a hairdresser, do you really think the average income of a hairdresser is 70, 80 kunas as it shows us. So there's also these decent hairdressers, so let's call them that, which are reporting actual incomes, 2000, 3000, 4,000 kuna, how much is the average of one hairdresser's salon by my estimate because my wife is going to the hairdresser, so I know about how much that gets me out, and where are these others? For God's sake, if you need legal services, do you think that really average lawyers, there are no colleagues of the Mlakars there made a lot of complaints by the Bar Association and the memo that went here imagine and Prime Minister Milanovic, do you really think that the average lawyer in the Republic of Croatia makes less than the average tram driver in ZET. Do you really think that's true? [[No, I don't think so. No, we're going to the honest craftsmen.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21403	Mrs. twilight, you understand, do you know the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament? You can only speak when you get the word, you can't engage and throw. ... Now I give you a warning because I have to give you a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And stick to the Rules of Procedure, it'll be a lot simpler for everyone. Okay? Thank you very much. A respected representative, Mladen Novak, reported after the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know why you have the idea that someone in this assembly, at least I haven't heard from anyone, only if I've heard something, that they have something against the introduction of order. Well, all the speakers have said so far that they are for the introduction of order, but if someone has suggestions that something should change, that it should work, so that doesn't mean that it's against it, it doesn't mean that it has bad intentions, does it? Why do you keep suggesting that we're against something, we're not against the introduction of order, absolutely not. And what still bothers me is that you said something so easy, so it's not some cost of 1,500 kuna here, and then what happens to the operators over the years and service, as my colleague Hrg said, for the people who live on it and in this present situation, it's not negligible at all. So I wouldn't quite agree that part should be so easy to accept. And on the other hand, when they are good suggestions, even though you do not like them, even though they do not agree with what you say as a party, then position, so do not immediately attribute it to someone who is against it. Let's just say yesterday we were objected to by the Penal Code. He's a worker's goal, it's meant that a worker can only exercise one's right. And we're right against it, so we're not against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21405	Replication response, Honored Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21406	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's what I'm going to focus on today. on my discussion and the replica about it, not what was yesterday because you'll agree on it. You said 1,000,2000 kuna, yes, I agree with you, I called it a negligible cost, we said there was no cost, and that was part of my replica on Mr. Hrg's discussion that said it was a terrible imposition that malts would not destroy the Croatian economy. It is 1500 kuna for almost all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, so those with the PC register and it is a tax-recognized deduction, which means we stop there. It is 1,500 kunas small or much, for the business of anyone in the VAT system there is if I do not cheat 230 000 kunas least traffic, therefore it is not negligible from the perspective of an ordinary citizen but from the perspective of one entrepreneur will agree that it is negligible. And as for the regulated state, etc., it's a good thing that I have left that note a little bit about how I've prepared myself, so I made it clear that I'm asking a rhetorical question and that it's being said today and that the former governments are also saying that they want an orderly state and that they want things to work so that we're all equal before the law and that the economic operators are equal. Governments before us said so, but this one really means it and it shows also by passing its laws and deeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21407	The next replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21408	I thought of one myself, reminding me of my colleague Jurjevic with his little demagogue about the state and how some side here doesn't want an orderly state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21409	Who are you replicating to?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21410	That's the answer to Mr. Radjenovic, I was just saying that my colleague Jurjevic reminded me, and you're taking away my time of replica, so extend it for your incursion. And I remember this slogan, Mr. Radenovic, "Good life to everyone, not just them," and that "The workers are Croats." And so we 1,500 per 1,500 kunas each day raise tax standards with a new law. So we increased VAT from 23% to 25%, increased the price of heating, not this thermal but also the price of gas in the 4th month, increased the price of electricity and a number of others. Today we're going to introduce a real estate tax. It's not social democracy, it's not an orderly state. So I'm asking you, is there 350,000 unemployed in one orderly state, because there are 80,000 people who don't get paid, because there are almost 250,000 workers who can't survive with their salary. Is that a state-of-the-art? And finish this fiscalization story. Somewhere around 2000 are expenses, adjust that computer so-called. DOS new conditions so buy a new Windows, if you don't have a cash register, then you'll need a cash register. And I'll end up, if you remember Little Mister when the Chief asks Rocco, how much I drink, this one says 13, I'm not asking you about the school, I'm asking you about the shrubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21411	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vinkovic, I'm glad you still remember the SDP parole when you... I haven't forgotten. [[You can't hear him.]] I'm glad you remember the password. It means that you remember when you were a member of that party, so you are well served by memory. It would be good to hold onto those passwords today, but let's leave it on the side. In your replica, you did not speak about this law, so you did not replicate me in relation to this relationship with the largest part of the replica, and this relationship to the actual discussion of your colleague Jurjevic. So once again the grotesque entrepreneur has a PC cash register, he just needs to install software. It's a tax-recognized deduction. It's not a big number. Therefore, all entrepreneurs do, in fact all entrepreneurs do, almost all entrepreneurs have it so far. It's not about the new tax press. I'm sure you understand that. It's just a new way of controlling, so tax control that will allow, among other things, the Tax Administration to focus its strengths on going to the field, returning to the field in one other way. In this way it will increase its efficiency to the joy of Croatian citizens and to us here, because it will likely cost its costs, i.e. increase productivity and make the same money far more effective, all of which together will cause benefits. If you feel as much as a colleague that 1000, 1500 kuna is really too much or 2,000 kuna for entrepreneurs in Croatia who are doing a great minimum of 250,000 traffic must work annually to be in the VAT system, then unfortunately, you and I disagree, especially because it is his tax deduction. At the end of the line if the new entrepreneur then it can place it in the underlying capital etc. etc. Therefore, it is simply one normal behavior of an entrepreneur north of Sutla, and since the new year in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21413	The eighth replica of the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Oh, here's the thing. I don't agree with you guys with a few things. You said this government wants everyone to be equal and everyone to be equal. That's exactly what this law doesn't do. Not everyone's equal. All bonds under this law are not equal as soon as we work three cycles, i.e. three deadlines within which these same entrepreneurs we all claim to be the problem of Croatian societies are entering three different deadlines inside. Do we want an orderly state or not? We do. And we want not only us here in the assembly but also all our citizens. On the other hand, you say a bunch of craftsmen have cash registers. How much is that groovy? You have the information gro because we come to another problem, we come to a problem because the taxpayers who are obliged to carry out the fiscalisation are obliged to provide data on all the business premises in which their activity is carried out. So the IRS. Be careful, we didn't have any tax payers who had their own business space in Croatia who couldn't open their crafts without paying all those taxes that he had to pay and that he didn't have from a dedicated checkup to protection from noise to all that. So somewhere in our country, there are registered solutions with business spaces. I don't see why you're asking the craftsman again now that he has to deliver that information where he performs his craft and how many separate drives he has. Data exist, Tax Administration very easy and simple to get data. And now that we say they've got a bunch of cash registers, I'm asking how much of them they have, and we don't know how many registered business spaces there are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21415	The reply to the replica is respected Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21416	Thank you, Mrs. Tyrelli, for your replica. So as for equality around getting into this system, so in three stages, I think that's the solution. Obviously, there is a need for the law to live as soon as possible. Entrepreneurs, therefore, have no discrimination against entrepreneurs and they are horizontally, so by activities they enter the system, not those who compete with each other. And look, the variant is to wait another year, so when really everybody's ready to do it or to do it in phases that don't disturb an even market game right now. I think it is, the government has chosen this solution. I think it's a better solution, and now it reminds me of Mr. Racan's political thesis when we said that we were entering Europe as a regatta, not as a convoy. So let's get some part of the economy into that system. I don't see any problems here. As far as the PC account standard is concerned. Yeah, unfortunately, we don't have any new statistical data yet, so we don't know how many PCs there are, but from what I know about the data and all the craftsmen I often visit and use their services, and I believe I'm paying a tax equally all the craftsmen I used from the carpenter to the restaurant really all have PC cash registers. I think it is indeed the standard of business in the Republic of Croatia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21417	And the last replica of the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to replicate to an esteemed colleague, Radjenovic, whom I usually very much appreciate both as an economist and as an agent, but precisely because he is in great error I must, I am obliged and I feel invited to replicate his exposure. I mean, if you want to do the order, then it's not going to go with saying that our craftsmen are not costing anything, it's opening a line through the Ministry of crafts that has the means to refund those assets in any way. That's number one. And number two, it's not right from a ministry that introduces a measure like this to get out of the public procurement process and say every craftsman needs to get software for himself. Why didn't it go to a combined purchase where software packages would get a much lower price or rebate? Why didn't you go there for the unification? But in this way IT resellers will make a lot of money at the expense of the higher price paid by the craftsman. You well know what a united public procurement is and that it is possible and that the ministry can implement it. I also have proof of the Ministry of Culture that has spent the unification of public procurement for digital projectors and digital cinemas in Croatia, 23. A 40% lower price was achieved than any of them would pay on their own. I don't understand why you didn't do it. It's just proof of how far you've been in this. I'm not against the introduction of order. I don't know which hairdresser you're going to, and if that hairdresser or the hairdresser is fair, and if she's issuing an account, but I also have to say that my chestnut boy in my neighborhood is asking where he's going to keep the fiscal cashier and is there any kind of portable? Will he keep it on the oval where the chestnuts are roasted, where you are supposed to come by, the honourable representative, because it is also close to where you live and how will he do it? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21419	Replication response, counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you too, colleague Mesic, for the commendations you gave me at the beginning, I return equally. We know each other relatively well, we live in the same neighborhood, you wrote a beautiful book that you've promoted these days so I wish you success in your life and beyond this House to really show what you don't have. Mr. Mesic, you see, and you know that I don't go to the hairdresser, so that's my wife's job, but the knowledge of services, the prices of hairdresser services, I have exactly because she often visits the hairdresser so I know about it. It goes to one of the cheaper ones, and I know it seems relatively expensive to me. You were talking about a solution so whether or not public procurement, whether or not. There was the Ministry of Finance in the dilemma about it, and I think that's what we were talking about in the first debate, and we were looking between the two solutions, and I'll see you in the coffee neighborhood, so I'll give you more details. I don't know how you can't hear me, Vice President. Do I hear myself? You're a young man you should hear well. So, we're talking about a solution to whether an entrepreneur so publicly competes, possibly a monopoly position, so doubts about guessing, etc., or whether the ministry ultimately assessed a relatively simple solution to a large competition, a possibility in the ultimate line of development of a small economy, etc. So I think this second solution is a better solution. And I'd like to ask you, now this is the end, and I think your replica was, and don't really bring things to absurdity, so no chestnuts will have any cashiers, and the one in our neighborhood who besides chestnuts has a lot, which you think, which has a lot of fruit and vegetables and sells that one there will have at the corner of Ukraine and Copernicus that will have to have a fiscal cash register because his daily traffic is certainly 5, 6 thousand kuna, and I don't know how much he reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21421	Now we're done with the replicas and the replies to the replicas, so we still have to listen to Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21422	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here today in this debate we heard all sorts of solutions and I agree that you all agree that order should be introduced, but when we propose one of the models of law enforcement we see that we are different here now. And now I don't understand whether we're different in a model or a general concept of law enforcement? So we thought that this model was the simplest because we said we weren't going to get expensive hardware devices, we're not going to go, we're going to step up let's tell the inspectors to actually try to bring this part of the gray economy under certain control than we actually chose in our opinion and opinion the most efficient, cheapest model. Okay, we differ in our opinions, we'll see how that model comes to life, so we went anyway to cut that tax burden to the businessmen. What's interesting here is, as you can see, we've been trying to implement certain reforms this year, but this debate today has shown that certain reforms are going very hard, and in your discussions it's shown that we're simply not ready. We're not ready in a different way of living, in a different way of working, in a different way of operating in the economy, and we're just going to have to do a lot more work to accept reform, to accept let's say this all the time that we're all talking about fairness and equality actually that we're going to have to do a lot more together on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21423	Thank you, too. We have reported three replicas to this exhibit. First respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21424	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I have to ask, given that the Ministry's representatives are here, I'm sorry I was on the board, so I didn't listen to the whole debate. The fact is, this is for filling budget holes. Will the painters have to issue an account? Will they also have to have a fiscal cash register as independent artists? Will the tambours have to? If you have no answer, that's what I wanted to tell my colleague, Radjenovic, the simple system is not designed until the end. Why can't the Ministry of crafts have a line to help craftsmen with difficulties? Why do we have an increase in funds at the ministry? Why can't people be helped? Who's gonna get a service on Lastovo in 48 hours? Come on, please! Come on, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21425	Second replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21426	You see, dear Deputy Minister, no one here has really said or wants to obstruct the introduction of order and the creation of an orderly state. Maybe we should go on our own and not cut our hair at home but go to the hairdresser and not encourage that kind of work on black. On the other hand, I warned that we had nothing against this law if the ministry was costing. So the adjustments to the cash registers that have been introduced by the new software and the question that's been raised here, I'm now thinking about a tender for this software. Does it have to be software, Windows or could be someone else or is it related to certain appointments on certain far-sighted Croatian cathedral of the spirit? No, it's real. Is the competition called? Did the Ministry of Finance call a program contest? Has anyone been paid a commission, perhaps, for not having been called a competition? And we warned a few things that were big questions maybe to deal with someone else. Why, after all, do we protect ourselves from gambling, sports bookies, and why don't we also bring fiscal cash tolls? And the fact is this and this serve to fill budget holes. Thank you for raising the VAT from 23% to 25%, as we see this uplifting of the economy now in charge of the state budget. Income from VAT fell, income from income tax dropped these are measures implemented by the Croatian Government through the Ministry of Finance which do not bring good and we need to be unique and change them for the better. Not slamming on citizens' pockets, craftsmen, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21427	Next replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21428	Dear Mr. Lalovac, you said that it is difficult to go to Croatia for reforms. I have not seen any more reforms in Croatia except that of the mini-tax reform. Let's just say you promised to reform the local self-government, the state administration, we'd very much like to see judicial reform. But if you call this reform, then really Croatian citizens will be disappointed. To repeat, no one is against the introduction of order, however, we are all to pay taxes. If you remember Croatian Labourists were the first to publish that list they said the pillar of the shame of the taxpayers. So it's not true that we're against it. We are against principles, ways and your consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21429	And the last replica of the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Deputy, you said we're not ready for reform now. Well, here you see today in Croatia is the decline of GDP, industrial production, low consumption. Some data today say that 11% less building permits than before. You see the people already moaning under those reforms. We are for the order of the state and we are and we want it to work and we want everyone to really live, but the people are hard to live. I'm not talking about this so-called. The fiscalization law, I'm talking about what you're trying to say is part of the reform. I wanted to say that perhaps you should have thought a little longer about all your actions and reforms, not you, but the government, of course, to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a way that makes it easier for them to put up with all these reforms. So who and this law should have been considered longer, seen what and how and how to make it easier and these cashiers and these programs and everything else and how to prevent a really gray economy that is a monster and that really prevents the development of all those honest people who pay their taxes and obligations to this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21431	I'm closing the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21432	Final proposal for a law on fiscalisation in cash, second reading, PZ No. 151. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 80 for, 2 against and 32 abstentions, have been passed a law on fiscalisation in cash in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21433	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - Final bill on amendments to the Law on electronic communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 193 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Electronic Communications with the final proposal of the Law proposes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia reduce the number of members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency from 7 to 5 members. In particular, the current Electronic Communications Act stipulates that HACOM is managed by a council consisting of 7 members including the President and the Vice-President of the Council. The President, the Vice-President and members of the HACOM Council shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in the process of proposing members of the Council, the Government shall publish a public invitation to propose candidates for members of the HACOM Council. The proposed law shall also specify the powers and responsibilities of the Vice-President of the HACOM Council to which the Chairman of the HACOM Council would be authorised to entrust the performance of certain tasks instead of the Director of HACOM as a valid solution. It is also envisaged to launch a prescribed procedure for the appointment of the new amended composition of the HACOM Council after the entry into force of the law and to ensure continuity in the work of the existing HACOM Council until the appointment process is completed. The adoption of this law will achieve the following objectives. The reduction of the number of members of the HACOM Council will result in greater efficiency and economicity in the work of the managing body of this regulatory agency. Keep going. In addition, the cost of HACOM operations is reduced by around one million kuna per year on behalf of the sum of the two council members, contributing to the overall rationalisation of the work of the regulatory agencies in the Republic of Croatia, and without a negative impact on the level of competence achieved and the necessary technical capacities of HACOM. Keep going. The powers and responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman of the HACOM Council shall be removed from the existing anomalies resulting from the excessive transfer of the powers of the President of the Council to the Director of HACOM as the tasks of the Director should remain primarily linked to the HACOM professional service. Since this law proposes amendments to the management body of HACOM, and in order to ensure the continued and uninterrupted operation of regulatory services in the markets of electronic communications and postal services which are of great importance for the economic system as a whole, it is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and, for the same reason, to propose its entry into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21435	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We'll go clubbing first. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists, the respected representative Branko Vuksic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21436	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. Here's a very short one. On the benches we get the law that we will support, we will support it for two reasons: because the number of people is reduced let's call it the administrative staff in HAKOM, so the number of administrations from 7 members to 5 members is reduced and that leaves a million kunas estimated more than they have spent so far. So I hope that with these millions of kunas that he will have to do his job better, that he will spend that money in order to mean in his field as a regulatory agency, and unfortunately I haven't had a chance to talk about it when there was a report from the agency on the agenda, and that what Mr. Radenovic said before, we will establish order in the country, and that we will eventually start to think about what happened on the Media Committee whether we should connect HAKOM with, say, the Council on Electronic Media, put it under the same roof. When the Government is working on a media strategy, it is certainly necessary to take care of these two related agencies that have a lot of touch points of integration because we think it is too wasteful, it is unscrupulous to have two agencies whose effectiveness, particularly the Council for Electronic Media, is questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21437	Thank you. In the name of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21438	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. The HDSB club will support this law, but I would like to point out a few things that are related to the work of the agency itself, which is in its own way, and it is even prescribed by the law that any form of influence on the work of the agency that could endanger its independence and independence is prohibited, and the applicable law requires that the Agency be managed by the Board of Agency members, including the President, of the Council of the Agency. The President, Vice-President and members of the Agency's council are scheduled to appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in the process of proposing members of the Council of the Croatian Government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia publishes a public invitation to propose candidates for members of the board of the Agency. It's really one great independence, the independence of this agency, one in a row, and I don't think the government knows how many agencies there are at this point in time at various addresses, so I wouldn't be surprised if it was also known for researching ore and wasting time. On the other hand, we see this argument that these salaries are not so small in those agencies since the law proposes to reduce the number of council members from 7 to 5, and therefore on behalf of the sum of the gross salary of two members of the agency's council somewhere an average million kuna per year. This means that one member of the board of that agency has half a million kuna salaries. It's gross, and the council representative has about 240 or 280 somewhere, depending on what or 200 000 kuna gross salary per year. So, one member of the agency that I really have to find out is that these are obviously big jobs and the big independence they're acting on, they have a gross half a million kunas paid annually. So it's translated this way that they have between 30 and 40,000 kunas net annual salary somewhere. All depends on the personal deduction, the number of children, the dependent family members, so here is also the solution for possible parliamentary representatives or those who have retired, not members of the government but who want to re-engage this deal of action, can simply go to work in such agencies. We therefore propose that the whole decision be reconsidered, not only for this agency, but for all agencies on the amount of these salaries. Because it saves itself, because this is a higher salary than the pay of a parliamentary representative. I think it's a bigger salary than the Minister's salary, and far less the powers that are related to the agency's own work. We therefore propose that, on behalf of the club, all agencies be reviewed, all of them paid, to find addresses, to make a list of all agencies operating in the Republic of Croatia, and to deliver it to the Assembly with a full report on height, the number of employees, because they are not just members of the council. They also have the right to administrative staff, etc. etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21439	Thank you. The HNS Club's position will be passed on to us by distinguished representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. The Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats will clearly support the proposal to amend the Law on Electronic Communications with the final draft of the law. It is, in fact, a technical amendment relating to the reduction of the number of council members from 7 to 5, with an explanation of savings and simpler, i.e. more practical business and council work. But this is certainly an opportunity to say a few words primarily because of the public about the very problem of electronic communications, regardless of what we said about it at the time of the Agency's report. In fact, we just need to remind the public, or let them know that electronic communications are something that, that's one area that is more and more and more daily taking over or treating us whether we want it or not. Electronic communications are also one area that only a very well-ordered and very carefully guided area can help citizens of the Republic of Croatia to simply live, and in line with all the modernities, modernities that this today's society and today's civilization makes. It is very important and inspection and supervision, professional supervision of the work and operation of all who deal with electronic communications, and only for the illustration of electronic communication are from different addresses... Electronic mail, infrastructure operators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are terms such as the service user, which is the service user, operator, operator choice, choice of number. Everything that does today is the secret of numbers. Only electronic communications and personal relations are clearly involved, privacy is touched and certain situations may be complicated. Electronic communications are certainly treated and related to infrastructure. You remember for years there's been a debate over who owns the underground infrastructure in electronic communications, is it the units of local self-government, whether it's the state, whether it's state-owned companies, or private firms. And we will still be able to discuss a lot of this debate in this assembly so that the overall relations in these relations can be cleared up and perhaps improved, better treated. There are rights to end-user services. It is one chapter within the law that is extremely important because it concerns all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You know that today every household has at least two, I think by some data, every household has at least two phone devices. Depreciate use of fixed lines. There should be some distinctions within various regulations, and there are other things that burden our citizens. I'll just say two examples. One is the inability to evenly use telecommunications operators' services. For example, in Zagreb, in certain neighborhoods, you do not simply have the opportunity to use certain tele-operate services, i.e. cable telephone operators, such as some other citizens, because of the lack of a certain technical infrastructure. And if you just happen to ask the authorities whose task it is to do it all the time, someone's switching from one to the other. For example, on Borongaj you can't in certain streets, not everywhere, in certain streets you can't use a full package of B-net because of cable infrastructure. And that's what our citizens are burdened with, and in that context they are considered to be discriminated against. One of the problems I would also like to point out here is radio and TV signals, i.e. the coverage of Croatia with these signals. I'd ask here if it's possible that the state radio is all over the country, listening at the same frequency? Or it has to be different frequencies and is it so technically problematic that Croatian radio is heard on absolutely the same frequency, is that 91.0. 92.1 I'm not getting into it at all, but is there a possibility? That's one story. And the second is what burdens me, I know it's in the process, and that's what bilateral relations with Italians are talking about, and that's the attack that certain sources and media have referred to as a pirate attack by Italians on our hearing and telecommunications areas where they attack us, or have an invasion with their programs on our radio and television signal, and they're better heard and seen radio and television stations in Italy than ours, and in the area of the Republic. With you going, you're sailing across the coast about it, and I won't say at all that there's no signal from any radio station in the Republic of Croatia, and there's only Italy and you're in the inner seas of the Republic of Croatia. And I would certainly encourage if it is possible to find ways to modernise electronic communications, improve both professionally and in equipment and digitise Croatia, and that, regardless of the relatively small country within the EU, Croatia does not lag behind but does nothing. We know that in some things we are even better, but nothing is lagging behind in electronic communications with EU countries. And once again, the HNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21441	Thank you very much. We're left to hear more of the HDZ Club's views. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21442	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club won't support this bill, and I'll try to explain briefly why. According to the Law on Electronic Communications, the Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications is the National Regulatory Agency for the operation of regulatory tasks prescribed through two laws – the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Postage Services. It is an independent, independent and non-profit legal person with public authority. Once again, I stress an independent, independent and non-profit. The Agency shall be responsible for its work to the Croatian Parliament, and for its work in the performance of regulatory tasks, the Agency shall not seek or receive instructions from any other body. Which means that every form of influence on the work of the agency that could endanger its independence and independence is prohibited. Why am I saying this? Because here is the clear intention, and said the Deputy Minister, the government of the Republic of Croatia's intention to put this agency under its influence. We already saw it here when we had amendments to the HANFA Act, amendments to the HERA Act, and we know what happened very shortly after these changes. Let us remember a solution related to the municipalities in the area of LIBURNIA, related to the privatisation of LIBURNIA HOTEL, and let us remember the solutions that came after HERA's decision to collect the price of heating by 36.7% in some cities that were considered to have low heating prices. We do not know whether the opinion of the European Commission has been obtained for this law. We don't see it in this law, or they're just being notified that there's one such law that wants to be amended. which settles HACOM's questions. Once again, I will repeat the inability to replace an independent regulator’s governing body without clear and based reasons is one of the basic assumptions that guarantees independence, and is prescribed by the European Commission Directive No. 2009/14. The basic amendments to this law concern, as we have heard, the cuts in the number of HACOM members from 7 to 5. We saw why we wanted to do this. The government wants to replace the current members of the HACOM Council in order to put this regulatory agency under control in my own way. You may not know, but the term of office of these council council members is until 2014. And if we are independent and if indeed that agency is independent, the question is why are the amendments to this law and the explanation in the light of Article 3 that the Government will issue a tender by way of effect of this law in the National Journal, and then, obviously, the Assembly will propose all five new members of that independent council in 2013. And then that explanation here is going to save a million kunas on two salaries. Then we can ask the question why don't we change the i.e. We don't reduce the number of councilmen in that council to three, so we save $2 million? But it doesn't matter. The agency's budget is 160 million kuna, and the annual profit is somewhere at 20 million kuna and it says it's non-profit. But the gain of this agency is a series of different charges especially in the part of the electronic media, in the part of the operator, in the telecom operator, and I have often warned from this pay phone that we have the influences that the government can lift. However, it does not want to be abolished, and then we have an agency that has a surplus of income, but we do not want to free the citizens who make these revenues and give it to those agencies. I'll remind you only fees for radio frequency activity or radio frequency, which on every mobile Internet phone account we pay to 10 kuna operators. The question is, can we take down at least 10 kunas to this people or citizens if we see that every year the agency piles up profits that have grown over the past 4.5 years to almost 90 million kuna? Would that be a good explanation instead of reducing the number of councilmen, so we'll save a million kunas. I think it's more or less clear here because the council is appointed by the Parliament, and the director is elected by that council. And we've witnessed what it looks like over the past few months. The new director has been elected and will take office on 1.1 next year. But it wasn't easy. There were certain people who thought they were supposed to be there. However, the question arises whether this way by reducing the number of council members from 7 to 5 we will actually be the part concerning the mandatory mandate of members of the five-year council and which began in 2009 and will end in 2014. We think it's a message and that's why we at the HDZ Club don't want to pass this law because it doesn't contribute to the Agency's independence. However, the shift of these councilors will set up someone else who will say outward to the EU Commission, which I say we do not know whether we have been given permission to interfere with legislation that regulates the issue of election of council members in a way that reduces the number of council members before the time to ask for new ones. I think we haven't heard that, and hopefully we'll hear about it and the fact is that the president of the HACOM Council is much stronger than the director himself, and now we see that the deputy council will be stronger than the director, so he'll be able to do the jobs he's been able to do so far by the head of the council and it's a question of where this kind of work will bring this agency. Because no matter what she thinks she's done her job, I think she's done it right. Let's just remember some TV channels that were shut down because they didn't comply with the laws, they were completely shut down. Some have been shut down for a certain period of time. Let us also remember their impact on TELE operators where certain fees and warnings and bills that have been sent unauthorized to people who have been users have been abolished. Let's remember those famous titles on certain films, etc. The agency's doing its job and today it's doing it correctly. And I think this is a direct interference of the government in the independence of that agency through a shift and a reduction of the number of council members, and then I say business will continue someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21443	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first application was by a respected representative, Jasen Mesic, but he did not have it, so he lost his right. We only have one more reported respected Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21444	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's everyone who's willing to listen right now I've come to the phone to say that at the last minute and here I am in some way tanging and extremely this company. It represents in some way our statehood but also one company that employs more than 10,000 people and then HACOM as an agency that regulates the focus of services, and now we are talking about Croatia's mail and former Croatian telecommunications. I'm going to look back a little bit on this whole area that actually this law or the law on amendments and amendments to the law doesn't directly touch and don't tang, but we've easily crossed over that content that I think is very important, and here we actually caught the story that I support. Let it change and ensure the possibility to change the members of the board, why not but it will not significantly change the things that have been found in that system. In fact, this opportunity I would use it to talk more about the services markets covered by HACOM's competence, which is important regardless of the number of members of the agency's council dealing with this bill and the addition of the law that I generally support because they are simpler. However, HAKOM as a regulatory body certainly has the right and obligation to influence the creation of market principles in the field of electronic communications and postal services, which include the promotion of competition and the interest of service users. Special tasks include the protection of competition, the promotion of effective investment and innovation, insurance of competition and respect for the principle of non-discrimination, the prevention of discrimination against operators and what is extremely important is ensuring a high level of consumer protection. Major efforts to preserve the electronic communications market are largely seen in the development of a broadband Internet access strategy in areas of special state care, mountain and mountain areas and islands. I dare say that in some areas on land that do not fall into isolated areas we also have a weak signal that is not available and frequent interruptions and poor quality of service. I wouldn't be discussing prices right now, but I think it might be more of a more favourable service price, especially when it comes to the Internet compared to the quality and speed of the service itself. However, although the market for electronic communications and services has achieved a fall of 13.7%, there is room and opportunity for the implementation of new technologies in particular in the transmission of data. I would also mention the importance that HACOM has worked on, in particular in the field of access to the network infrastructure and the building of an electronic network, and most of all in terms of renting networks and water, and in particular monitoring the joint use of cable sewers, i.e. efforts to regulate such use. But I'm going to look a little bit more at the post office market here. The total postal services are in a small decline, so somewhere around 2% of what we could talk about recently, according to reports we received from HACOM, but new research is saying something different. Therefore, in relation to a different definition of postal services, the Post Law of 2009 I hope that this law will again come to the vote in terms of the liberalisation of postal services and the regulation of the postal market, so by using more and connecting electronic communications in the economy, however, there has been a decline and reduction. It is important to note that HP as a public operator achieved a 72% stake in the total postal services market, and all other operators achieved 28%. It is important here to note that HP has achieved an 8% drop in services, and other operators have achieved a 16% increase in services. Out of the total number of domestic services, 97% of which HP achieved 70 and universal services were represented by 59%. Total revenues on the postal services market were achieved by 2% less as part of HP, while other postal service providers achieved 2% higher. That's all the data until 2011. At the end of 2011, 10500 workers were employed for postal services, out of which 8200 were employed in HP. According to the report, HP retained the number of workers, and other donors increased the number of workers by 22%. Universal postal services have been reduced by 9% by donors, while value added services have increased by 10. Now, although HACOM has no involvement in the adoption of legal regulation by the management of postal services companies, it would still be looked at at at least in terms of quality control and availability of postal services, professional supervision of the provision of services and monitoring the development of the market and postal network at HP. According to the latest HACOM survey, the current market share of HP is about 66%, so it's dropping, compared to the end of last year and now, so I don't know what's going to happen by the end of this year. Under the conditions of a liberalised market, competition has taken 34% of the market. In Europe, where the market is liberalised, no public operator has a smaller share of 90%, and many are about 95%, regardless of ownership structure. This information is about market relations, but also about the public operator's business policy. For five years under the conditions of full liberalisation when market and potential and market power of all postal service providers are questioned, it is expected that the share of HP is below 50%. So, since HP as a public operator is exactly the one that covers most of the postal services market, universal postal services, and especially reserved universal postal services, I think... and greater that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there are some changes that have happened in this particular area, especially when it comes to public operators, but things are a little different. It is important to say that, in addition to ensuring market development conditions, HACOM cannot act in the direction of empowerment of the public operator in which it is invested by the State and which still has large resources. It is only a matter of sustainability because it is heard that HP obviously has no accumulated funds, i.e. the financial benefits of the 300 million kuna spent on bonds that are just reaching plus 70 million kuna for interest of as much as 9%, and the debt of the former canal management was covered by new responsibilities but this time, due to the debt of 54 million euros, for which the consent of the former board of directors gave the old supervisory board. The HP earlier confirmed that the interest money would be spent on the development of new products, digital television, the technological restoration of the Vesnik printing works, which, by the government's decision, had been recapitalised by its establishment, so the post had become its majority owner. In particular, when it comes to digital television, it is pointed out that the largest business network of 1128 postal offices already has a stalking and excellently developed sales network and will not have an additional.... Now some notices introduce the purchase of gold, so the mail deals with everything but the mail. Why am I talking, because it's another huge, big structural company in Croatia and a company that needs to actually be preserved and has to deal with what it can actually do because it's very similar companies in Europe, similar to HP, although they are working intensively, have an annual growth of 1-2.5% and maintain their employees safely and can preserve capital. And of course here I don't have much time, so I'm going to try to cut it short. According to the available data after restructuring, HP has at least 10600 employees, so all of our efforts to protect all these employees, and out of which 450 of them are unfortunately, more than 450 are working in the administration's office and above the results of the restructuring so far hangs many questionnaires. That something is wrong confirms that mail in the first quarter, according to available public data, recorded 14.5 million kunas of loss at salary cost growth. Why am I saying this all together, and I have to bring this to an end because seconds are over, I won't bomb you anymore, I just want to say that this is an extremely valuable system that needs to be preserved, which needs to be discussed more, and that HAKOM, on the preservation of the postal services market, would actually need to be a little bit more and more obvious at closing time, the closure of postal offices throughout Croatia should actually be a little bit more perhaps in a sense, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia would provide and focus on preserving that system even though we are aware that we have to preserve and ensure equality on the market. But I'm not sure if we've had any so far when it comes to reserved postal services but that's another topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21445	Here's the thing, we have two replicas on this exhibit. I suggest we hear it now, even though it's 13:30, so let's close this agenda. Honorable representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Rilje, in your presentation you went to the Croatian Post Office and you are obviously emotionally bound to it and I welcome it. We've already talked about it a few times. From your exposure not only to be concluded, but you said by saying that this is a system that is in public function and that you need to find a way to preserve it. In your presentation, however, you also mentioned further liberalisation. Unfortunately, that liberalisation has also led to the collapse of these public services, these public enterprises, so now we have a situation which is really not to say contradictory to myself. We ask these companies to operate profitablely, to do business, I'm not saying they should make a profit in the state budget. At the same time, we give them competition that has significantly different conditions than these companies. Let's say these operators who now don't appoint anyone who delivers mail, delivers letters, accounts they're based only on that territory, on the part that can make money. In a village in Moslavina, in Banovina, it's just not interesting for them. Such a shipment brings no profit, they don't see their own interest here and they leave it to whom? HP. In order to deliver this shipment to a village in Moslavina, Banovina or Lica, there is no cost. And now that it has liberalised that part of the market should take responsibility for such businesses, the state should also make clear that these companies are not expected to be profitable. One sentence is expected of them. They are only expected to operate in a way consciously, that there is simple control of that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21447	Okay. The answer to the replica Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21448	Dear Vice President, Deputy, dear colleague Novak. I understand, but here I must tell you that we have signed with the European Commission the liberalisation of the market and these services. So we can't influence it, but really the state can affect the preservation of the system not only of this, but of any system that means the flow of the earth. In other words, I understand you, I have the same problems as you with those letters that I find in the flower garden or in the garden or under the olive tree or I don't already know a variety of these expressions as they are already called I wouldn't want to name or speak for or against, but I have to say that we have one system that has resources. The state has invested in it over the years. These resources are powerful and give them strength and stability to function, but in their services. He can't do the post office with what Agrokor or anyone else is doing. With all due respect, they must deal with what Croatian Post Office once did and what is everywhere in Europe and the whole story is in it. And the resources are so big, so strong that we know as much as we invested. Now the fact is, I've been talking about it, because I haven't had time to speak yet and unlimited resources. There are very great wealth in real estate not for sale but for putting into office and employment. It's not a problem to cut back. That's why I listed the number as a reduction in the HP postal market share on the postal services market. And we can equally apply to some other structural firms, but the fact is, we all need to be emotionally connected to every structural firm because it kind of gives growth and employment potential because it is structural. It creates such a development, not to mention how much together we have actually paid as citizens in its development.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21449	And another replica, the esteemed Josip Boric. He's giving up on the replica. Okay. Thank you very much. The deputy minister told me he didn't want a closing word, so then this seems like a good time for us to close this debate and announce a break by 3:00. We will continue with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21450	Final draft law amending the Law on electronic communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 193. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most votes, 91 votes for, 21 against and 2 abstentions, have been passed by the Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21451	My colleagues and colleagues continue with the session. We move to - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy, first reading, P.Z. No. 186 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? Minister of Construction Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21452	Thank you very much. The esteemed ladies and gentlemen are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Law on the Communist Economy. As you have the opportunity to see one word about calling the longest law, so the basic law is from '95. He's changed a couple of times in a couple of years. The latest amendment in 2011 was in a way to resolve complaints against administrative acts by legal persons carrying out municipal activities on all complaints in the ministry. This is, of course, at the time when this amendment was adopted and the supplement was obviously not fully aware of the consequences, and the result was actually the closure from the central office by a large number of complaints because of these complaints, it was against the solution of the municipal directors and therefore the solution of certain cities was resolved locally. With this amendment and the addition of the law, we return the resolution to those complaints. The ministry will address complaints from the county and the City of Zagreb, which is a large city, and this will be further resolved at local level. In this way, both jurisdiction and treatment are decentralised. This other amendment relating to compliance with other regulations, i.e. criminal provisions, shall go beyond criminal provisions. The proposer therefore proposes to adopt this amendment and supplementing the legislation from the operationality of a faster resolution of all administrative procedures which are within the jurisdiction of the authorities of the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21453	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? They don't want to. We're going to a club debate. SDP club and colleague Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21454	Good afternoon. Dear Madam Vice President, Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before I specifically explain and, of course, support you on behalf of the SDP Club, allow me to briefly remind you that the Law on the Communist Economy determines the principles, way of implementing and financing the municipal economy and other issues regarding the purpose of carrying out municipal activities. The common economy within the meaning of this law involves the provision of municipal activities, the provision of municipal services, and the financing, construction and maintenance of facilities and public infrastructure arrangements in the field of local self-government units, as well as regional self-government units, when precisely defined. This long-standing law, as the minister said so far, has suffered a number of changes. As of April 2011, the latest amendments concerned the jurisdiction to resolve the appeal against administrative acts of legal persons established for carrying out municipal activities, the question of competence to resolve complaints against the solution of the communal director and the complaint against the solution of the unit management body of the local self-government in the adoption of a municipal fee, i.e. on a municipal contribution. The analysis of the results of the recent amendments to the Law on the municipal economy by the competent ministry pointed to the need for decentralisation of jurisdiction in the matter of resolving complaints on first-degree solutions from the management area of the municipal economy. The transfer of competences from the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for this area to the administrative bodies of the regional self-government units in the same area will result in greater efficiency in the provision of municipal services because, according to their logic, the regional self-government units are much closer and faster in communicating with citizens, i.e. local self-government units and are better acquainted with the situation in individual cases in the field of their work. It should also be recalled that around 1500 pending cases of appeal have been located in the competent ministry since last year's change of jurisdiction did not solve the problem of ministry employees who will handle the cases. By returning more of these items to regional self-government, it is objective to expect that the same items will finally begin to be resolved. Furthermore, this law should be brought into line with the decision to comply with the law of the Republic of Croatia with the Penal Code, which provides for the obligation of professional holders to make regulations to avoid overlapping of legal descriptions, infringements and criminal offences in the draft draft rules containing infringement provisions of the same law. The following is said, and for reasons that no additional resources are needed in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in order to significantly improve the effectiveness of the resolution of complaints in this area, the SDP Representatives' Club will support this proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21455	Thank you very much. We continue with the club of HNS and colleague Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21456	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister. Here I would like, on this occasion, to the Minister to be successful in carrying out a very responsible duty, given that she has sufficient experience in the affairs I wish her on behalf of our club and on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that this ministry leads with a real strong woman's hand. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the HNS Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy. Namely, the current law adopted in 2011 No. 49 The National Journal, we have seen in its realization its change that certain problems have arisen in terms of efficiency itself and efficiency itself. In this law, in good faith, part of the appeal procedure was transferred to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and there were a number of complaints and complaints which did not have a great deal of weight since these were complaints concerning both directors and certain municipal contributions to buildings. This law suggests that the part of the second-degree decision or appeal should remain in the counties. We think it's a good way to do it anyway. Namely, the current law on amendments made last year is responsible for resolving complaints against administrative acts of legal persons established for carrying out municipal activity, which are dealt with in individual administrative matters on the rights and responsibilities of natural persons transferred from the administrative authority of the county or the city of Zagreb in charge of the affairs of the municipal economy to the central body of the state administration. to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. This law has also resolved the issue of competence to resolve... against a municipal solution against the solution of the municipal directors as well as a complaint against the resolution of the local government's governing body. What did this all lead to? So only that this has led to overcrowding with the works of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning with a huge number of subjects that must be considered and solved which made it very difficult for the ministry to work and function normally. It has happened that the ministry must deal with complaints about municipal directors' decisions on amounts such as 80 ili 100 kuna. This bill will change precisely these problematic elements. In the future, the administrative acts of the legal persons established for carrying out the municipal activity will be dealt with by individual administrative matters on the rights and obligations and responsibilities of natural and legal persons, which will be able to make a complaint to the administrative body of the county or the city of Zagreb, responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy. Then a complaint will be made against the solution of the municipal directors to the administrative body of the county responsible for the affairs of the municipal office, and against the resolution of the municipal director of the city of Zagreb to the central authority of the state administration responsible for the municipal economy. A complaint will be made to the administrative authority of the county responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy and against the solutions made by the administrative body of the city of Zagreb, the complaint shall be made to the central authority of the state administration responsible for the economy. This will lead to the harmonisation of the Law on the Communist Economy with the Criminal Law in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia with the Penal Code. It should be mentioned that the delay in proceedings will not be because it will become the obligation of the central authority of the state administration in charge of the municipal economy to the administrative authorities of the counties of the municipal economy in the second degree to hand over all the files and archives of the cases in which it decides in the complaints under this law. Except that this is another step in so much decentralisation of powers, there is no concern that local budgets will be additionally burdened. In view of the fact that the competent authority for the resolution is responsible for those complaints until 2011 and that, after the transfer to the central authorities of the state administration in those administrative bodies, the proposed decentralisation of the business of the mentioned authorities will indeed not cause the necessary employment of new employees or cause additional financial costs. Normally, we will support these changes because now, in the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, there are about 1400 of these unresolved complaints that we believe that both by nature and by type, they certainly do not fall to have to be decided by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, because the second-degree part of the decision on such complaints can certainly be fully in the departments of the counties dealing with the municipal economy. Because of all the above mentioned things, and just for the sake of the ease of applicability and applicability of this law, and the appeal itself, the procedure itself will be much faster we will support and vote in favour of the adoption of these amendments proposed by this law as a club of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21457	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21458	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here is listening to the debate so far on amendments to the Law on the Communist Economy probably because of the failure in the introduction of the minister or on this trail the debate continued, it seems to me that the new law from last year is not clear until the end, or I may have misunderstood the debate of the colleagues so far under this law. Namely, the 2011 Communication of the Law on the Community Economy did not determine the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Physical Planning, Construction and Environmental Protection, as was then called, for the resolution in the second instance for all solutions brought by legal entities in the Republic of Croatia to which public authorities were left in the area relating to the municipal economy or for all units of local self-government on whose territory they regulate their solutions to the municipal directors or administrative bodies in all units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia which determines the municipal compensation and municipal contribution. Last year, when the harmonisation of the Law on the Communist Economy was carried out with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes, the obligation was established, i.e. the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and Environmental Protection only to part of the units of local self-government made up of large cities. So since last year, the Ministry has only dealt with as a second-degree body according to solutions, according to complaints about solutions that have been made either by large cities or public enterprises in those cities to which public authorities have been transferred to resolve in municipal affairs or for solutions by the municipal director or for solutions on municipal compensation and municipal contribution, but I only say in the section relating to large cities. As the Minister said in her introduction, the Law on the Communist Economy is one of the oldest laws in force, which has suffered a large number of amendments, and it would really be good for the Ministry to be units of local self-government in view of a number of new commitments we make through the accession process of the European Union. It seems to me therefore necessary, independently of this change today, to go into the systematic development of the new Law on the Communist Economy. So the Law on the Community Economy was passed in 1995 and was practically adopted two years after a new territorial structure of local self-government units was created in Croatia and after a new reorganisation of the political, or territorial structure was carried out, when municipalities, cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb which had a special position like then established counties. It was then defined in 1995 that according to complaints, the solutions brought by local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia, so cities and municipalities, except for the City of Zagreb, were to solve the administrative bodies of the county in the second degree and the system was in effect until 2005. In 2005, we introduced new units of local self-government in Croatia, which are large cities, cities that number more than 35,000 inhabitants and cities that are county headquarters. At that time, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government defined that, as a general rule, large cities in the second degree are resolved by complaints on solutions that make up the administrative departments of large cities to solve counties unless it is settled by a special law and such a situation was until 2011. Since a number of laws in the Republic of Croatia were adopted last year because of compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and in part with the Law on Administrative Disputes, then in the procedure of negotiations in Chapter 23, which is the Justice and Fundamental Human Rights, from experts of the European Commission, it is said that large cities which often have their fiscal capacity would, by their administrative capacity, exceed the power of the County in the light of their fiscal capacity and the budget which is often known to be several times greater than the budget of the parent county, that it may be appropriate and suggested that the resolution be therefore made by appeal to the part relating to the municipal economy defined by the Law on the Communist Economy when large cities are transferred to the Ministry. Therefore, when we talk about 1500 pending cases, i.e. 1400 and some unsolved cases, as they are now in the Ministry, so as not to be fooled, it is not 1500 pending cases for all units of local self-government in Croatia, this fund of unsolved items applies only to large cities in the Republic of Croatia which have since last year, so in just 12.13 months as long as this law is in force, i.e. 14 months, which have remained unsolved in the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. So I think it's important that it's different than the fact or claim that today, with this amendment to the Law on the Communist Economy, we practically give the counties powers that they didn't have. According to the 2011 law, the County also had the power to resolve in the second degree complaints about solutions relating to the municipal economy for all units of local self-government in the area, except for large cities and cities in which the county is located. So here he may be, perhaps, to mention that we were witnesses that the minister, former Minister Vrdoljak in Zadar, criticised, for example, the County of Zadar for outstanding cases in the section relating to the implementation of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, while, for example, in his own ministry only for the part relating to large cities there were over a thousand unsolved cases. Therefore, it would be good if the criticism referred to would then be based on the work of its own ministry when acting in similar laws. Otherwise, I believe that in this way, when a part of the jobs that have been solved so far in a way that the state or government, i.e. the resolution ministry, has acted when solving cases that are in the jurisdiction of large cities, I think this represents the strengthening of the position of the county in relation to large cities, which is why we in the Croatian Democratic Community have been standing in favour of the first day and when we talked about our programme on the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. And then and today, we are saying that the number of counties in the Republic of Croatia is practically what this country needs, so on this trail, the government is also giving powers to the counties in the section relating to the resolution of large cities saying that the government is also thinking, so on this trail that counties are indeed units of regional self-government that can sovereignly decide on these powers and even when they act in cases relating to the adoption of a solution in the first degree and large cities. Here's the clue, so this bill of law can contribute to further decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. And here it would be good for the Government, or the RES, to come to this House as soon as possible with the Proposal for a Law on the Communist Economy, especially because it is in the preparation of the Waste Management Act, so we should probably also, through the Law on the Communist Economy, establish greater competences of local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21459	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He's my first colleague, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21460	Madam Vice President, dear colleague. You specifically formulated that it was only big cities. We may not have highlighted it in our discussions, but we certainly knew that it was and that it was about 1400 objects not of great weight and value and importance. And we think it's certainly a better solution to go to the county level, because in the structure of the county are still above and large cities. As for the county mentioned, I have information from Zadar County that since the visit of Minister Vrdoljak to Zadar County, the work of the service in the county is several times better than it was before, that with certain solutions and quality shifts in the organisation of work they were in the right service of their citizens. I think we all agree here that this is a kind of decentralisation and that the ministry should do other kinds of work and other complexity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21461	A reply to Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21462	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, colleague Mandic. I said in my presentation, so it's not good when here in just a few months, a year in a particular section of the ministry's work, it's very fast to create a thousand pending cases, criticise those who had only a few months to implement the law that came into force. And if they didn't do what the minister expected at the time, although the mayor of Zadar, Mr Zrilic, said that the minister was wrong and that the information he presented was not correct. And as far as the metrics are concerned, so allowing today's administrative bodies of the county to re-solve in the second degree of big city solutions was a solution in force for 6 years, so from 2005 to 2011. So, from when the great cities came into existence, until last year until April. And when I say when we are in the process of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union in a certain way, we are given a suggestion that, given the importance, the size of large cities in the Republic of Croatia which, as I have said often in both fiscal and administrative terms, would be in a certain part above their counties so that, in that part due to the uniform practice at the level of the Republic, it would be good for the state level, that the ministry would act in the second degree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21463	Thank you very much. And another replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21464	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I have to do to replicate to my esteemed colleague Bačić in the part where he mentioned the minister who went to Zadar and said that he had no other way than to warn the leaders of the Zadar County not to do anything and to invite citizens to change them because they were not in the service of those same citizens, because they had solved only 2% of 1,000 and something required, and he had no need to do the same in the city of Rijeka. That's why it was a political stand that didn't benefit anyone. And I don't agree with my colleague Mandic or you that after that, I don't know what's much better, because the city of Rijeka is the best in this regard. All 1 and a half percent on four times less legalisation requirements and a solution issue. And that's politicization, and so far as I remember in history, no minister in such an open way has abused his service in order to attack not knowing either the colors of his party or any of his work. I don't think that was correct of him and it was a good thing that he went to another ministry. We'll see how it works there. However, it was not correct for the people who do, who are generally the least politicians. People in the administrative bodies of the county and these big cities are not politicians anymore. They are officials who are doing their job and were not obviously the biggest mistake on them either. And we see that only the ministry in its part has over 1,000 and some demands that have not been resolved. We give all of us pucks, and we ourselves are the ones who may be worse than all that we warn. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21465	Reply to the replica of counterpart Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21466	I thank my colleague, Boric. Well, first of all, I have to say that the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, now we have little escape from the basic law whose amendment is now and is proposed, that the implementation of the law itself and on the ground, therefore in large cities, or in the administrative departments of the county that will comply with the regulation of this law for a long time, i.e. for a time, to determine the way in which all the county and all the major cities of the solution in the process of law-making of illegally built buildings are clearly balanced and whether many units of regional self-government need time, so many of the county and many cities to determine how they operate. So if it was in the very beginning of some wandering, or indeterminateness, I think it was very quickly corrected, and it is not the result of the criticism and the puck that the minister said but simply that the counties or cities have already slowly begun to resolve themselves. But what you said would be good, too, is that if one county or one large city is criticised for being mistreated, that a copy was then given, or that the number of applications submitted and the number of outstanding requests in all the administrative bodies that are required to comply with that law was seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21467	Thank you very much. A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, on behalf of the HDSSB Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21468	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister. Here's how these changes in government are every day hard for me to get used to new functions, but here's my congratulations on your choice and I want successful work. The colleagues or colleagues and colleagues of the HDSSB Club will support this law, these amendments to the law because we really think that the problem should be solved where this problem is being done and done if it exists, and it is evident that the state does not have time to deal with it, I would say the benign things to all the problems that lie ahead of it. However, this law certainly cannot speak with such euphoria here we have the announced decentralisation because this is only putting down certain powers on regional self-government, it is not decentralisation that has been announced, we cannot even call it decentralisation because it is practically about solving certain complaints. But this is, here is the law, given that it has been practically for many years and that it has been given to say certain powers in decentralised functions without monitoring fiscal decentralisation by the state in a narrow sense, I believe that there will be costs here not in the state budget but there will be costs primarily in county budgets similar to that of the state administration offices moved to county offices. Not only the offices but also the employees of the state administration turned into county services where practically regional self-government had to provide funds in their budgets for the salaries of these employees. And at that time, the same party welcomed it as a major decentralisation, but a decentralisation which was primarily cost compared to regional self-government. To break the big city name. It's cities over 35,000 inhabitants. Zagreb is a big city, Osijek is a town of medium size, Rijeka, Split these are all cities between 30, 50 to 70 possibly up to 100,000 inhabitants and this large city stops in one residential block in a village in China. I remember an anecdote that, given the bilateral agreement between Croatia and China, the Chinese merchants of which I really didn't see that none in these 10 or 15 years were likely to have a long life thanks to the Chinese acupuncture but it was not evident that none of these here died because there is simply no data. For Djakovo, I know that there is information about a child born, but there is no significant information about the dead in Croatia. So that's it, that fama about big cities and powers of big cities in the Republic of Croatia. So, what we're looking for all the time, and also as HDSSB and I as a representative, but also as mayor and even a councilman in the City Council since 1997, it's a necessary fiscal decentralisation. It is embarrassing, devastating for local and regional self-government that only 3% of total tax revenues go towards local self-government, including the City of Zagreb and 97% end up in the state budget. And in the end, that state budget is back on the deficit. There is certainly a problem of the absence of this real decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation and exactly solving the problem because the problem cannot be solved at the top, the problem is solved down where the problem is made. So, you who are in power now do not repeat a mistake in these several mandates and the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament, and practically by giving authority to local self-government without suffering fiscal decentralisation, nothing is done. And here there are several problems that are primarily related to the new Law on the Communist Economy but also to the Law on the financing of local self-government. Someone here mentioned the problem of the Waste Management Act, and I will also mention here the Law on Real Estate Tax which will have a significant impact on the entire Law on the municipal economy, on the very law on the financing of local self-government, and very soon we will have new amendments and additions to the law so that I also propose to the Ministry but also to the Government to fully understand these problems that are related to both the municipal economy and the financing of local self-government but also to the decentralisation that has been announced in that famous plan 21. So we will support this law and here at the end I will ask, therefore, that this is about the Law on the Communist Economy I will ask here that only the Ministry and the Government and the competent ministries include in the financing of connections to the municipal infrastructure of Croatian military disabled persons with special electricity and gas since they do not lead as a municipal infrastructure and local self-government units are obliged to pay these accession costs. So if we write laws to bring them into line with the real situation and to secure money so that people who are really legal things Croatian military disableds wouldn't be denied for those connections but that can't be done exclusively at the expense of the unit of local self-government. And let's not talk about what the communal directors in Djakov are doing now, how they write complaints, who the citizens are complaining about, how it is dealt with quickly or slowly we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21469	Thank you very much. The replica of your presentation has a colleague, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21470	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I think my colleague Vinkovic agrees with your thinking about decentralisation that you have clearly detected the problem but it is also clear that these bring down powers to local self-government and regional units, etc. But let's play that part right now. But I agree with the part where you said fiscal decentralisation is necessary. So if some 300 million were taken here on the basis of that income tax, it is certainly missing in the units of local self-government, there is insufficient resources for all of these needs that you mentioned by Croatian military disabled. And in that part, I think that thinking about acupuncture is correct. ...it's that system... And this is where he took it from you. [[A speaker away from the microphone doesn't understand.]] So there's nothing you can do. And the other problem that arises will be the subject says there will be penalties and communal directors. I'm asking you where you're going to charge for it, and how in today's time when the material situation is such that it simply comes into question the most basic existence really these solutions are difficult at all levels, from the ministry to the county level and at all places. Here's my thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21471	Reply to the replica of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21472	Look, dear fellow if you have a real mayor, then it's not the communal officers who have the sole task of writing a warrant for a violation, punishment, or I don't know what else, but first of all they need to educate the citizens so they don't do it again. So it's a feature of the real mayors. So the communal directors should be in the service of the citizens. Some mayors write tickets and I don't know what but it's a different story. But we all need to understand that, without fiscal decentralisation, Croatia cannot be launched. The problem cannot be solved exclusively here on Mark's square. There will be a slow problem solved because every other day there is a cage here in this square, every day more and more dissatisfied, every day there are more and more specialists, so I don't know if they'll look at us when we wake up to this square. So this granting powers to counties or regional self-government is no decentralisation whatsoever. decentralisation is when I give you the means to exercise that authority. So there's going to be some expenses here, so at least on that paper where you're going to have to answer to whoever's complaining and you're going to have to pay that expert worker who's going to have to at least have no idea if he didn't come across this particular cabinet for four years so he doesn't even have to know the laws, but he's going to feel the budget of the regional self-government. So decentralisation, yes, but fiscal, but this one, too, but let it be followed by money and not talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21473	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, he's a colleague of Branko Hrg's who doesn't have one, so he's losing his right to argue on this wheel. Next up is colleague Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21474	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, here I join the congratulations from the HNS bench others who congratulated you as the first point you defend, therefore the same pardon and the HDSSB club as the minister. Here is no Mr Milinkovic I would tell him that in 2010 they had not changed the rates of income tax very likely today local self-government would have an additional 900 million kuna in their budgets. Then we would have wartime military people and all together not to mention something, not to mention the mistake that capital error made for local self-government in 2010 but to go back to this law. So I would say that one well-thinking law of 2011 is changed when administrative acts of legal persons... to carry out municipal activities so power has been transferred to the counties, i.e. to the central authority of the state administration and so there was a accumulation of cases, here we heard 1500 items currently in the ministry, except for those bodies of the second-degree complaint and based on the solution of the municipal directors, ail against the solution of the administrative bodies of the units of local self-government. I can say that these measures create an additional stalemate in 2011, and not a year has passed, Minister, the new ministry, i.e. The former minister is going on a proposal, therefore, to amend this law because we can really talk about a one-stop-shop with regard to the resolution of things, as far as the units of local self-government are concerned, because they are free to say that municipal redistribution, communal departments, are the bones of the local self-government unit. All of us who are mayors and mayors here know that these departments must function supremely because, otherwise, enormous damage is done by local officials, mayors and commissioners themselves. I'll look back on the communal directors. Unfortunately, I am not satisfied about the area of municipal directors in the Republic of Croatia, so in the Western European countries, especially in our neighbouring Italy we have much greater and more quality powers of municipal directors. In conversations with my friendly town, so... in Italy, the mayor... he's surprised to say that. The municipal director cannot stop the illegal construction of one building in the Republic of Croatia. So stronger powers and better functioning of communal order, and then maximum and better functioning of local self-government units. I'd say that's where it was heard whether this law strengthens decentralisation. So definitely to strengthen decentralisation with this law, so the law on amendments and additions to this law in 2011 celebrated decentralisation. So we can't do decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia with a magic wand and say here from tomorrow will be decentralisation and fiscal and any other. So stone by stone palace, grain by grain of cake, and so on. These are laws which, in my opinion, strengthen decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia. I wouldn't be much longer because the law is also very short, so the change of this law itself is quite technical. I'll return to the functioning of the communal directors. Unfortunately, today in the Republic of Croatia, we have a situation where people breakers, so those who commit violations based on the Criminal Code or decisions on communal order, make fun of the communal directors when they enter the field. I specifically had a case where communal directors went out into the field where they stopped an illegal object. They didn't have a board on who was working that facility, nor did they want to provide documents on what they were entitled to, but they are my communal directors, he says come with us to the lamb. I think we're tearing it down,...we're tearing down the function of so-and communal order and local self-government, and we have to change that anyway. As for the application of illegal construction, I will step away from this law a little while ago at the beginning of my debate, and I told the minister, in a county weekly in Sibenik-Knin County, all the facilities that were removed after 21 June 2011. Years. In Sibenik-Knin County, believe me, it is the number of 14 objects, of which 11 objects in the municipality of Tisno. So surely in all other units of local self-government in the county there are no more illegal facilities. Is that true, it is not, but the communal monks did not report the objects that were created, i.e. built illegally after 21 June last year. So in the end, I would say, as far as the powers of the communal directors are concerned, that unless a dog barks or drinks loudly, let us give them the authority to stop the illegal construction, and not to let them determine the illegal construction, report to the construction inspection, and until the construction inspection on the ground, that illegal facility is completely complete. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21475	Thank you very much. The Republic has a colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21476	Now, my colleague is standing up in the end with a construction inspection, and then I'm not going to replicate it, but first of all, I'm going to go to this stone for the palace, a grain for the cake. We're going to lose all our teeth, and we're not even starting to make that cake yet, we're going to decentralisation, we're going to lose all our teeth, and we haven't even started decentralisation yet. No need for that magic wand, there needs a law on financing local self-government. And I agree with you that in 2010 when they practically wanted to, and it was very much supported by the SDP then, when they wanted practically little Bandic to cut the budget in the City of Zagreb, when it was the last change of that profit tax that was also scandalous to go to the company headquarters, not to be divided by the place where it was realized. We have income tax, we have real estate tax, we have ultimately VAT, so only 2% of that VAT to end up in local self-government units and the municipalities of Tisno and the city of Đakovo would have several times the budget, and then it would be much easier to be at the service of all your citizens, to resuscitate perhaps the dump you have by not using the money of the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency. You would, and you wouldn't be, I'd say beggar and son of Kikas, who walks around the ministry door begging various ministers, carrying projects with a building permit to get some funding to co-finance these projects. Unfortunately today, both mayors and mayors and mayors have been turned into such individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21477	Thank you. The answer to the replica Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21478	Well, I'm a colleague of Vinkovic's, in part, and I agree with your replica. I have to tell you that the SDP was against changing the income tax rate. It is not true that he was for and was not, so they were not introduced only as far as the city of Zagreb is concerned. And if you are in 2010, then how much did the city of Đakovo lose in the budget, i.e. how much the state and the Ministry of Finance took to the city of Đakov in 2010. I'm sure it's more than a million kunas. So that's what I was talking about. And you, especially in this mandate, are criticizing more SDP, and I heard for the first time that you mentioned it, so here in 2010, and here you said yourself, so more than a million kuna certainly lost the city of Djakovo. And as for VAT, if I may say so. Therefore, VAT on tourism has been reduced from 25% to 15% since 1 January 2013. So, to my municipality, it means a lot to my economic operators in the community. No country in the environment at the time of the economic crisis has so drastically lowered the VAT rate as made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as regards the VAT rate in tourism since 1.1.2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21479	Injury of Rules of Procedure Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21480	If I wasn't looking for a co-worker's break, I think it's 209 that you should give a warning, etc. If I have a consolidated text and I don't have it, but I don't know if you've been following my political work so far. Well, I was just the loudest one when HDZ worked badly. He was a bad worker, so he lost the election, and more of me, listen to me, they don't interest me anymore. Now you're doing a bad job, and now I'm interested in you. You've announced fiscal decentralisation. Read plan 21. There's no f or d from fiscal decentralisation. She's gone. With the new mini tax reform, all local self-government units have fewer and fewer funds. Health, school has less money. Go to school and ask the principal if he has enough money. There's not enough for material costs from spilling hollows into blanks either. And that's why he's attacking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21481	Thank you. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but as we're tolerated today, we won't be giving anyone any warning. colleague Mirela Holy, individual debate
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21482	Thank you, Vice President. Here it is, and I join my colleagues and congratulate you on your choice. Here it is, at the very beginning, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this law because I see it as a front-row collapse of certain bureaucratic barriers and a relief of procedures, and we know very well that our citizens and citizens are already very complicated and complex procedures, so all procedures that go in the direction of facilitating our citizens' lives should in any case be supported. However, although I will support this bill, I would like to warn you of an extremely important issue, which is a question of the legal uncertainty of our citizens and citizens in which we are brought by very frequent amendments to the law. So in that sense, I remind you that the applicable law was passed a little more or less than a year and a half ago, that is, in April 2011, and now after a year and a half, we re-change the law and things back to the previous model of resolving complaints. On this occasion, I would like to stress that I believe that the idea of the law that was passed in 2011 was not really wrong because some healthy logic tells us that the procedure will be more transparent and fairer and less corrupt if we don't put all the eggs in the same basket, or that we don't have a system to sue you, cadia judges you. But obviously when we go to such models, it is necessary first to secure a certain bureaucratic infrastructure in central government bodies so that such a system can function at all. Since these years and a few days have shown that the system in question has obviously failed to work, it is better to return things to the previous model so that there is no impasse and greater legal uncertainty in the functioning of the Law on municipal legislation. But as things are now, of course, if the new Waste Act will keep the reform of the draft law that went through in the spring of Brussels, it means that, for maybe a month, two of us could have a new Waste Act, and that the new Waste Act could be implemented at all, it would be necessary to amend the Law on the Community Economy, which we had the opportunity to talk about even at a time when I was a minister, as it would be necessary to change some other laws relating to municipal redistribution, and this would be in the direction of strengthening the powers of the community directors so that they could at all impose those citizens and citizens who would not comply with the Waste Act in terms of the selection of waste, but also units of local self-government which, regardless of the current applicable situation in the Waste Act, did not introduce a system to the amount, i.e.e. by volume of waste, i.e. to the number of residents, to finally respect what is our and obligations at the end of the EU. But I'm saying, when the Waste Act is passed, it will be necessary to re-change the Law on the municipal economy, so it's my impression that it might have waited to adopt the Waste Act or that at least go parallel to the amendments to this law in the section concerning settlement by appeal, given the fact that it will be necessary to change this law again in a few months, two. And in that sense I return to that beginning of my debate is not good for our legal system and for our citizens and citizens to change laws too often because this brings the whole society into one state of legal uncertainty. So here's my appeal in the future for a little bit of things to be better coordinated between the ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21483	Thank you very much. And the last known colleague, Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21484	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, everyone has congratulated you again I congratulate you on being in continuum with everyone and I want successful work and of course as much patience as possible to introduce this matter, which is particularly important in the units of local self-government, but also to the whole country, in fact, as much order as possible. I am taking this opportunity to express my personal thoughts regarding the proposal of the Law on Change and Completion of the Law on the Communist Economy. The communal economy is the basis for a precondition for economic growth, but also one of the basic functions of the units of local self-government. This proposal provides, among other things, for decentralisation of jurisdiction over resolving complaints of first-degree solutions from the administrative area of the municipal economy in the county and the City of Zagreb, and for greater efficiency in carrying out municipal affairs. It further states that the counties are in a position of better and faster communication with citizens in the exercise of their rights and better knowledge of the situation in the field of their work. The first-degree solutions remain for us, and the second-degree ones have been transferred from the ministry to the county so that this is some kind of conditional decentralization. Who better to know the problem of the communal economy besides the local self-government unit? I don't think there's much to talk about regional or regional units in terms of the base on which the communal economy is actually taking place. The area of the municipal economy should be decentralised as much as possible and in my personal opinion, of course, within the framework of the National Economy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and all in terms of the efficiency and efficiency of doing these jobs exactly where they are being done and where citizens consume them. So, in cities and municipalities. Here, although it is not directly the subject of this law, it was necessary to mention the problem of jurisdiction in the municipal economy. For example, this law mentions complaints against a municipal director's solution in the county's administrative body. The real issue is the actual competence of the communal director in terms of the exercise of control over the municipal order and its real authority. For example, a communal director does not have the authority to determine the identity of a person who creates major problems in the conduct of the communal order. It's the only thing local self-government units have in their surveillance system at all. So, communal directors. All other forms of surveillance, all inspections, construction, market, sanitary, of course, with all the resources that they belong to are organized far from local self-government units. When we compare municipal redistribution with some other EU countries and their forms of organisation, we come to know of a far greater degree of decentralisation or better coordination and division of competence with some other bodies. I know 50 examples like this in 18 European countries. For example, there are municipal police somewhere, somewhere in redistribution, but they have far more jurisdiction and often allow for powers that today have bodies that are not managed by local self-government units. For example, in the area of communal order, police are free to regulate in certain areas of control and order maintenance, especially in the area of traffic within units of local self-government. There is also a problem of jurisdiction over local roads that pass through the centre of units of local self-government and have the status of county or Croatian roads. Units of local self-government and without the consent of the same can't really do anything on those roads, and they have to act quickly and spottically to operate traffic in their area. Competence and governance of municipal goods are often overlapped because of the competence of other bodies in the area in which the local self-government unit should manage itself. This applies, therefore, to both roads and ports, i.e. communal links, to inspections which are not managed by any part of the units of local self-government. Our nature parks are run by catastrophic county institutions, we have no jurisdiction over the cathedral or the landowner and not to list. Maybe that's the way it's supposed to be, but elsewhere, it's not like that. And strangely with most responsibilities and most responsibilities and of course state control the efficiency of local self-government units would be far greater and would most likely have to be similar to that of the European market. In fact, police officers who do their job well waste their time in a large part of the control of the communal order, and most of their work except for the preservation of public order and peace and a lot of other things that are not part of the business. In any event, the Council for Prevention in Local Self-Government Units exists as co-ordination bodies have functioned, and there is always a question of efficiency, speed, efficiency and competence, as the same body is composed of members coming from different competences of the area and must agree. As the current 2003 Law has experienced 6 changes, you actually said originally from '99. 10 and a supplement, i.e. These are I think I don't know 7, 8, 9 which are the changes I consider necessary to access the creation of a new law which would be a quality process for this area. For example, the Law on Waters and the Law on Roads that directly penetrated the area prescribed by this law entered into force. And so did the Waste Act, just like my colleague Holly just said. For example. We have in force the law to adopt an annual construction programme to bind the annual income of the municipal contribution. As it has been shown in practice, it is also a practice in the EU that plans and programmes are being adopted for a longer period because, as we know only for the preparation of the documentation, it takes several years. And finally, just to relate to what's already been mentioned here. We had a case that Croatian military disabled connections were paid by the local self-government unit that they could not register again. Why? Because the relevant authorities did not comply with existing laws at the appropriate time with the procedures they were to do. So again, the administration has made an appointment somewhere along the way. And as for the application of illegal constructions or applications to the building inspectorate, it was very much so by the municipal directorship and the local self-government units but very few returnees with very ugly answers. Thank you very much. I accept, of course, the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21485	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this wheel when the conditions are met. Tomorrow at 9.30 we begin with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Education and Education Act. I'll see you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-21-0.u21486	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy, first reading, PZ No. 186. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 112 votes in favour and 2 votes have been abstentioned to the proposed conclusion.
