ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8311	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. - Annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2011 The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has submitted the report in accordance with Article 25. The law on the right to access information. You received the motions by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative wish to further explain? Director Mr. Dubravko Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8312	Dear Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you on behalf of the employees of the Personal Data Protection Agency. I'm Dubravko Bilic and I'm the director of an agency not full for two weeks. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall be an independent body with supervisory powers and shall carry out independent tasks within the scope of the jurisdiction laid down by the Data Protection Act and the Law on the right to access information. It was founded in 2004 and has also taken care of the implementation of the Law on the right to access information since 2011. The agency is currently living in a residential village on the street of Fr. Grge Martic and has 28 employees who work in 5 systematized departments. The right to access information as a fundamental human right was created as a result of the development of a modern rule of law and, as such, it is one of the assumptions of the democratisation of modern society, the fight against corruption, and is a means of openness, the public and transparency of public authorities. This right has its own history starting from the oldest Freedom of Information Act adopted in 1766 in the Kingdom of Sweden, through the Declaration of Human Rights from 1789 in France to the Act on Free Access to Information from 1966 in the United States, which is then actually experiencing its full swing. Today, most democratic states guarantee citizens the right to information with their constitution while more than 50 states have the area governed by a special law. In the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The right to access information owned by public authorities shall be prescribed. Law on the right to access information adopted in 2003 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area. The bodies of the public authorities are obliged to keep an official register of requests for access to information for records and reporting. According to the law of the public authorities, they are required to inform the Agency of the number of applications submitted and solved by 31 January for the previous year, and the Agency is obliged as an independent body to report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Before the report itself, actually, which I'm only going to brief because in the materials you've received a very extensive report for the past year. In short, I would also like to mention something of a meaningful problem in this report. Therefore, information may be a document, photo, audio record, table, chart or any other record of data in an individual case such as a budget, spatial plan, contracts, records and others, and public authorities shall be state bodies, units of local and regional self-government, legal persons with public authority, legal persons fully or partially financed from the state budget, as well as companies in which individuals of local and regional self-government have separate or shared majority ownership. For the purposes of drawing up this Report, the Agency found that 5432 legal persons were obliged to submit a report on the implementation of the law, and in fact, this report shows that they were delivered by less than 505 only 2655. Compared to 2010, this is significant progress, as we have only recorded 850 reports at the time. We cannot be satisfied with this as an Agency and this is one of the areas in which we should work in the future work of the Agency. The statistical processing of the reports received has shown a significant increase in the number of requests submitted for access to information compared to 2010 and 2008 indicating the increasing involvement of citizens in monitoring the work of the public authorities. So we recorded 51930 requests for information, and in 2009, for example, only 3,000 were recorded. In 223 cases, public authorities have denied information for the protection of personal data or have been classified as one of the confidentiality codes, and in 578 cases for other legal reasons. During 2011, the Agency received 312 items, and the most lodged complaints 209 on rejection solutions, and on account of so-called the silence of the administration, i.e. the decision of the public authority within the prescribed time limit. 24 administrative disputes have also been initiated, and the Agency has also drawn up 24 responses to the complaint. The most recent example is the rejection of the complaint by the Agency for Electronic Media against a solution of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data that requires the authorisation of concession contracts for television activity where the ruling has shown that the Agency’s solution was correct. In particular, we must point out that there is a clear progress in the appeal procedures, particularly in those bodies of public authorities which have received several complaints and whose information officers have passed the education carried out by the Agency. The agency has also participated in many international projects aimed at strengthening the awareness of citizens, media and their own capacities in law enforcement. The Agency has also organised an info phone available to citizens at the Agency's working hours, which is available through the website, and the Agency's door is open daily to all citizens and other users. Unfortunately, the Agency lacks stronger mechanisms especially for public authorities which delay the procedure. Comparing data from earlier years, however, it can be concluded that there is a positive effect of legal changes, but that the situation in the area of access to information is far from being satisfied with the transparency and openness of the public authority. It is therefore necessary to further improve the legal framework, in particular with regard to classified information, to further work on the education of information officers, to insist with the public administration authority on drawing up a catalogue of information, and to strengthen the capacity and supervisory powers of the Agency itself. Before the end, I would draw attention to a controversy that is being conducted about whether the protection of the right to access information should be within the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data or should be an independent, independent body. In EU countries, the problem has been tackled twice. Some countries have this part within the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and some as an independent body. I think that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent body can quality control the implementation of both constitutional rights of citizens, with some minor improvements in the legal framework on which the working group is already working. Finally, I have to be honest with you, but also with myself, and admit that the agency could have done even more in 2011 to promote the right to access information. In the first two weeks that I am at the head of the agency, we have brought a new strategic plan in which we have particularly highlighted the importance of the Agency's openness to the public, but also to the media. We have developed a plan to restructure the Information Access Department and strengthen the department with another employee and by the end of the year we plan to strengthen it with another one. We have arranged a working visit to Sweden for September and their Office of the Ombudsman for the right to access information. We agreed for June to visit colleagues from Slovenia who also went far in promoting and protecting the right to access information. We're ready to change, we're ready to learn, and I believe next year we'll be better. What is most important is that we all work together to promote the rights of citizens and other users to come into possession of information and that we have as little need for additional interventions as possible by the agency itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8313	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. All right. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party Labour Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8314	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. What is involved in fundamental human rights? I'm sure there's a lot of freedom. The fundamental human right is also the right to work, the right to a dignified life, but the fundamental human right stands in the first sentence of the report on the implementation of this law, the right to access information. And it became a constitutionally guaranteed right. But every right is threatened by some serious danger and it's precisely from those who, in this case for information, prescribe it. It's mostly law enforcement. This law is no exception either. And when so, the legislator seeks to limit fundamental human rights. In most cases, not to harm most, but to gain some of the benefits. And I'll have the privilege of not subject to the law. And just the benefits are the greatest enemy of rights. There are, there are and there will be powerful men who not only think but act against the laws. If they break the laws that prove to them that they are in violation of the way to Remetinec, why don't they violate the trimmings for some and bad ones anyway, and it's not an enormous conclusion even against the Law on the right to access information. Before analysing this report should be kept in mind that free access to information or the right to access information is a very broad concept and a big topic. On this topic, political powers are taking their hands off. This piling is a sign that they are breaking the law although they swear to the legislation as the basis of society at least three times a day. This report by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which has been carrying out the tasks of the Information Access Authority since early 2011, can also be given a passing assessment because of the fact that problems do not push under the carpet, although, of course, as an independent body whose leading people are dependent on the ruling policy do not call problems a real name and does not point to all the causes of the still bad situation in the exercise of fundamental human rights, the right to access information. What are the biggest pains of the Law on the right to access information? The first is that it does not comply with the Privacy Act, and the second is slightly greater because the Law on the right to access information is contrary to one very important provision with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution guarantees access to information by denying that public authorities, written in this law, may deny access to information and, if it is classified by the degree of secrecy in accordance with the law and/or the general act. And where data are marked by a certain degree of secrecy that can be prescribed by a general act then the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is not responsible for carrying out a test of public interest in the most important cases. Therefore, one of the main problems in accessing information is the non-culture of data in institutions, and the main problem is poor, the lack of implementation of the Law on the right to access information is the lack of political will. She hasn't been around yet. If it's going to be in the future, we'll see next year. Political will is needed in order to pass a better, more effective law and to open institutions to the public. Why did the former governments resort to closed, public secret, sessions? Not because they discussed Croatia's security issues but because... They made Croatia more insecure, more vulnerable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to make it easier without a public witness for the country to make harmful, and for itself and its parties to make useful profitable decisions. If the sessions at which INA was decided or cheaper electricity for TLM were public thieving, it would have been much earlier. So, the markings of secrecy are being abused, and abuses them of course by the government at both national and local level. The greatest lack of this report is that it does not speak of sanctions against those who knowingly violate the law. The lack of this report is that it is not openly alerted to the consequences of hiding information from a public who has the right to know. What about local sheriffs who hit every dubious and often criminal decision made in cabinets secretly? Here are some examples of the closure of public institutions, if you call the Croatian County headquarters in as many as 55% of the cases will not be available to you name or number of information officers. In less than 20% of local self-government units on the Internet, there is information about citizens' right to access information. Of all the draft laws that are under the ministry's procedure, only 17.9% were published, and the call to the public for discussion was only addressed by 6.17% of the drafts. And these data show that Croatia is still a secret society, a society that hides information from citizens. For what? Not because of honorable intentions. And who in the institutions decides by general acts that some information is classified? In these cases, a test of public interest is only possible in the Administrative Court, in the administrative dispute, and the administrative dispute is long and expensive in Croatia, it is also a debt because the law stipulates that administrative dispute is being conducted in first-degree administrative courts. Amendments to the law should provide that the application under the Law is entitled to access information by the High Administrative Court and should set the maximum time limit for the settlement of the dispute. Experts and activists who have been dealing with information-related problems for a long time are almost unanimous in the recommendation that the new law should prescribe an independent information commissioner. An institution that has long been practiced by Western democracy. Of the 576 units of local self-government, most of them have been closed, GONG and the Association of Cities found in a joint survey. The most open city, the most respected city and the application of the Law on Access to Information is Rijeka, next to it are Samobor and Labin, then Pula, Opatija, Crikvenica, Zaprešić, Slavonski Brod, Kutina, Novi Marof and Čakovec. Citizens are the most accessible Krapina-Zagorska and Varazdin County. However, it encourages the fact that big problems have started to be discussed openly, and that the problems are recognised by individual ministers in the Kukurik government, it is a step forward. But it would be bad for them to make it, and we are guilty of such examples two steps back. After this report, which does not trouble the legal issue and does not speak openly about its own bosses, it is up to the new law, perhaps that of the Croatian Labourists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8315	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP representative, Mr. Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8316	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Before I start talking about this report, I'm going to say three important notes. First of all, it is rare that reports on the application of the law are discussed in the Assembly, we pass many laws, but only some of them, some require implementation reports. It is fortunate that this law requires exactly such a mechanism, meeting the Parliament, a representative body with implementation problems, because we usually say the laws are good, but application is not good. That is why it is our responsibility to take care of the application of such a law. The other thing is that I have to say somewhat justifying the tone of my exposure. I am one of the authors of this law and I must say that it was created as an initiative of the Association of Civil Society and Independent Experts, but our disappointment was great when we found that small changes could prevent the application of the entire mechanism of law action. One thing we recognize, over time, the situation has been mending for years but not because a colleague has previously pointed to the fact that it has become a political will to apply the law, but because it has simply not been possible for any authority to prevent the openness of its action. Media, citizens do not suffer incarceration, forum work, session secrecy or the secrecy of the acts involved. In particular, they were active journalists, they showed how influential the media had been to break the practice of applying this law despite the fact that the information for which there was an important public interest, but questioned the integrity, integrity of the bearer of political duties. The third note concerns the formal part of this report. This report concerns the 2011 period in which the government was different from now, the period in which the agency was under other guidance than it is now, so that Mr. Bilic can very little be responsible for everything that was bad, and he also cannot be attributed to what was good, but let me say something about the real situation after the notice. The first in this report is a certain progress, indeed it is, but the progress in me is not about the very form and style of the report. Here in this tree report, it's hard to see the forest. Many details of the report of individual bodies that are the bonds of this law are hoped, but the basis is not seen, which is that this law does not give citizens the right to information but also requires the duty of an open authority. This is very important because it is necessary to achieve a balance between the protection of what is protected, for example from national or public security, private life and what is the obligation of the body to discover openings, make its behaviour transparent and decision-making. It is important to threaten that the report often does not see it in public. The duty of openness, one of the main features of good authority. Good authority cannot be the one who has been imprisoned, which hides information, which does not involve citizens in the decision-making process, gives them the knowledge they need to participate in this. The second thing that's in this report, I'm saying I'm still talking about style and way of reporting is the fact that we don't actually have real insight into what real procedures are. Here we lose the sense of importance and insignificantness, many of the completely irrelevant things that should be trivially known to all of us are often that we explain and the economy in us is one tradition, the mentality of imprisonment that anyone who behaves in power likes to have one hareola secret in his action, a monopoly on the information they use. What should be avoided in this report is that these details and such irrelevant things are not seen principally, which is that we have problems, difficulties with the application of this law. The most important is the parallel reports that evaluate Croatia and in this regard. I don't only think about research concerning Croatia, and they are done by international institutions such as Freedom House or something like that, but I also think about that there are already, on several occasions, research into the application of this law by the just mentioned GONG, Transparency International and other NGOs. These studies show quite a difference between a degree of satisfaction that we can have due to gradual and continuous progress, but also dissatisfaction in real life especially in local self-government units, but forgive the fact that for some central government bodies, there is still this mentality, a culture of secrecy that does not allow citizens to get information that they are interested in. There is a balance and consistency between this law, between the Data Protection Act, but this report shows little or no progress has been achieved by making it a right to the availability of information by means of a constitution guaranteed and protected the right of all. But I will repeat what I believe should be pointed out in this, and it should be kept in mind that it is not only citizens' rights but also the public authority's obligation to make available information that should or might be of interest to citizens. Why wait for the request if it is possible to open up public decision-making bodies, give to the insight of the document and the like, especially at a time when we live where electronic communication funds prevail, it is very possible and it is very necessary. The Agency should act continuously in the same way as it does very useful seminars that help those in charge to enable the availability of information to understand their purpose and to apply the law properly. As it is, what reality is not described so much in this report I say as in reports or research by NGOs. They show that this interest did not cease by law making itself but that it was a very lively, normative mechanism in which we should achieve the goals of good government. In this I think that I can rely heavily on what the new government's formal decisions are. The government adopted the Partnership Action Plan for the Open Authority in 2012-2013 with a whole series of measures to help implement this law. One such and concrete decision-making measure, I think, should be highlighted openly and publicly. For example, the government gave up that long-standing practice that kept the publication of the full agendas of the government's meetings because it was being kept secret, or what was being discussed in closed sessions was not being published. This has been seen in the public and a major step is the concession and the actual adoption of initiatives that existed by the media, especially the institutions of civil society. That open power partnership is going to be me thinking the main framework and maybe the government has supported the adoption of this report, so I think that's what we're going to do. However, assessments provided by the 112 platform concerning the availability of information also suggest that other parts of the government did not follow such logic and did not follow the example set by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What would be particularly important is the consequences of this law and its application concerns the Parliament. This is the fact that the intensities of this law, too, want to achieve greater participation of those interested in legislation-making processes. Of course, this is not always possible to a large extent, especially now. And right now, we're under pressure to act quickly. Citizens expect changes and they must happen. But to involve citizens especially in strategically important laws and their adoption to include interested and professional ones, I think it is very important. I am pleased and commendable, and I encourage the Parliament's leadership's decision to open power in this regard to be a leader in the debate and the adoption of new legal acts. A few words were also said about amendments to the law. With the amendments to the law, it shouldn't wait long, but it shouldn't be too fast. I think one of those cowardly eggs that we've inherited from the previous one is giving jurisdiction to the Personal Data Protection Agency to take care of the implementation of that law. The agency was created with other intentions, formed with another structure and was created of course without the necessary people, personnel, means to monitor the application of the law. That is why, in parallel with the new legislation, it will have to go and that seems to me to be an organisational change. Whether it will be the Commissioner that the proposal of a large number of NGOs and some experts and Mr Vukusic also supported it or something else on the committee Mr Lucin spoke in this direction, it is difficult to say in advance. We alone do not know or can not decide how to achieve that best measure of public interest, the protection of national security and the protection of people's privacy. In that triangle, an institution should be placed so that it is effective. But let me bring the end. This report should be adopted with full knowledge and understanding that those who present it to us here have neither written nor responded to it. Secondly, that this report also points to insufficient concern that the law is applied in its own sense because the measures of the number of rejected or accepted applications will not be a measure of application of this law, as much as the feeling that the institutions of the authorities exist because of the citizens that they are open to them and that they cooperate with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8317	Thank you. On behalf of HNS MP Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bilic, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. I would like to remind you first that today is the World Museum Day, a very important day for all our museums, for all our museurs, but also for cultural heritage, rich cultural heritage of Croatia. Now let me say... The HNS Club, Liberal Democrats, will accept the 2011 report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. [[You don't understand.]] The right to access information is the right established by the development and regulation of democratic states and regulated by a special law, so Croatia is placed in that order. In some countries, Croatia is also entitled to access information and constitutional law. In addition to the Croatian Constitution, the right to access information is also protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2011 shall be submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent body having the power to protect the right to access information in appeal proceedings in cases of the right to access information and to monitor the implementation of that law. Amendments to the law and the legal provision of 2011 to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall take over the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information has been made a qualitative step in that basic human law. However, it is obvious that it is necessary to amend both this and some other laws and sublegal acts so that the right to access information can be consumed in its fullness. Under the law, every natural person and every legal person is a user of the right to information and has the right to obtain and request information. Users, citizens, businesses, civil society associations may request any information they possess, at their disposal or supervised by the public authorities. As a rule, all information by public authorities is public well-being and must be made available to all. The bodies of the public authorities shall be obliged to carry out the information regularly even where there is no specific request. Access to information may only be limited in exceptional cases, in cases and in a manner prescribed by law, with an obligation to explain the duration of the period of limitation of the right to access information. A test of public interest and proportionality may suspend the law prescribed for the public disclosure of information if the test establishes that there is an important public interest in publishing the information. Based on the report we are discussing, it is evident that certain public authorities have yet to understand or have not accepted or are not teamed up to implement the Law on the right to access information. Less than 50% of the public authorities in 2011 fulfilled not all of them in full and in a proper manner the obligation to submit reports to the Agency. Of the 5432 bodies, the report was submitted by 2655 bodies, and 2777 bodies did not report. This is one of the most visible data that points to current problems in the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Among other things, there are comments that obtaining sensitive, more complicated information remains too long and complicated a procedure. This could further jeopardise the human rights of citizens. A significant number of requests for information in 2010, say 12340 and 2011. 51930, points to improving the legal framework, but also to increasing the interest of users of information. However, regardless of the significant increase mentioned in the request by reading the report in question, it is concluded that, unfortunately, citizens and other users of the right to information are not adequately familiar with their constitutional law. However, it is even more significant that public authorities are not sufficiently aware of their obligations under the Law on the right to access information. We in the HNS, Liberal Democrats, support the expressed desire, and we consider this a future commitment, that further efforts should be made in information and education both by citizens and other users of the right to access information and to further inform and educate the public authorities in their obligations, publishing and providing information. The law on access to information requires all public authorities to cooperate with the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and thus enables the Agency itself to work more efficiently, and their Constitution guarantees human rights. The very theme of the report shows that additional staffing of the Agency is necessary in order to meet its purpose as an independent body for the protection of the right to access information. Obviously, three employees are too small. The real value of the right to access information is the responsibility of the authorities to those for whom there are, citizens and citizens. Each government performs the tasks entrusted to it by its citizens, each institution and every administration serves only citizens. Therefore, anything treated from the budget, all businesses and anything paid to civil servants and citizens as a service to the public services and institutions must be subject to questioning, questioning, evaluation and evaluation. Moreover, today's modern leadership in the country needs to be fully open to the public and to the citizens. Today's modern state needs to demystify as much as possible as possible there. Every modern government wants as much as possible to involve citizens in governance, i.e. decision-making and law-making. As a result, every modern state promotes a strong development of civil society that is increasingly participating in all processes in the country and in society. Contemporary state leadership is an open state that expects and allows its citizens to participate in all processes after the elections and to question those for whom they have or have not voted even after the elections. Contemporary state leadership enables its citizens to help develop and improve the entire society through direct and special participation. In this, citizens must feel comfortable and must feel that all state institutions are their institutions and have every right to seek and demand from them who are currently in power to lead their country with increased attention and special care and to care for the institutions and management of processes in the state and society. One of the tools that enables questions, but also proper participation on the work of the government of state institutions is certainly the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8319	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, MP Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here today we have homework to process the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2011 in the form of a summary. In fact, we see that there is no replica, no correction, but simply this kind of consideration, one calmly consideration of the report on the Law on the Implementation of the Law on Access to Information, although this topic, as Professor Kregar said, should indeed incentivise even greater interest than we show it. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information refers to public authorities. And this fact itself is clear to us who they are and what the bodies are to the public authorities. But here's how citizens know it's the state bodies, the bodies of the units of local and regional, or regional self-government. Then, legal persons with public authority, legal persons whose programme or operation is legally established as public interest, and companies in which either the Republic of Croatia or the units of local or regional self-government have a majority share or have shared shares. What is the obligation of the public authorities to provide information, in the sense of the right to access information, and which implies the obligation of the public authority to publish information under its jurisdiction. So, they're due, I'd start with what they'd say. First of all, inform about the tender documentation from public procurement and the execution of the contract in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. That's number one. This information on submitted requests, performances, petitions, proposals as well as other activities undertaken by users to the public authority would be number two. So duty number two. Then information on its work including information on activities, organisations, labour costs and sources of funding. All of this should be made available to citizens, publicly, transparently, in order to say what someone here and before the election and after the election mandate was approximately and mainly the four-year-old had information that those they had chosen or did not choose and that administration, the public administration which was created by the basis of the election results to do so. The public administration should also inform of its decisions and measures affecting the interests of the users, i.e. citizens and the reasons for their adoption. Everything is beautifully written and wonderful, but when you go for example to the municipal or city administration, so for something you ask for information or access to some information, then you get an answer, file a written request, and a written request will give you an answer in 15 days. Here are the examples of life. I think it's in many municipalities, cities or units of regional self-government, so here's when, as representatives, we ask the minister or ministry about a problem in the lives of our citizens, then it's a month to respond. It's such a common methodology of questions and answers. And it says nicely in this Act that information can be given to the user who has submitted the request, so either by directly providing information, by providing information by written means, by looking at documents which is almost impossible directly on the spot by seeing documents and making copies of documents containing the requested information. It's a pretty rare case that happens in public authorities. Then by providing copies of documents containing the requested information and in another way that is appropriate for the exercise of citizens' right to access information. And now that this, therefore, makes it difficult to access information and statistics provided by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data here in this Report to us, that the statistical processing of 2655 therefore delivered reports, and that the number of those, therefore the number according to those reports, in 223 cases, the public authorities were denying the information. So almost 10% for reasons of data protection and because it was classified information, and in 578 cases 20% for some other legal reasons. So, despite the good intentions of the legislator of this law that is in force, despite the fact that the whole society is seeking the openness of this information, it still doesn't go exactly the way we and the citizens would want it today, as well as the citizens. Most public authorities or public authorities have instructed that they have published catalogues of information on websites. It's a good practice, it's a good practice. However, while Croatia is still making great progress in informing still a large number of people are not being used on the Internet, the justification that some information is actually being published via the Internet and that this is an excuse for not giving information in another form does not actually hold water. As for the media that let me say, in some sense, either as a legal entity or as a natural person in the form of journalists or some investigative journalism, they get information or ask for information in this case very often there is also a certain abuse given the instrumentalisation of a mildly spoken to some media. Here is when they asked for a list of observers in the European Parliament, then one portal, our Croatian portal, wrote that Boro Grubisic is leaving for the observer in Brussels and is legally convicted of war crimes. That's literally what it said. Two days I've been trying to download, say disabling such information, or try to find an editor of that portal with two or three employees, I don't know one or a fax company, right, but my attempts have been in vain. It stood 24 hours on the portal's pages that only the denials would be published later than that. Only one denial is always worth only 5% of the original information that was so published. So even though I didn't need the protection of personal data because it's clear to everyone that it's a mild hoax, and it's less likely to be about ignorance. For this reason, like all clubs that have spoken so far, we should support this report, but also plead with these speakers and work on it in any way that the availability of information in all the forms that I have listed, not only on the websites, especially when it comes to public competitions and when it is published, and even when someone is not accepted in a public competition or rejected, but never gets information about what is a mass phenomenon, but only the one who, or only by phone, informs him that he is admitted to a public job competition or for some job, and the rest of them very often are especially in this first case new employment will not be notified at all. Well, it would be normal for a letter to be sent, sir, to be received and accepted, which is why you weren't admitted or anyone else to at least explain and inform. It's not there. And then you have to go to the website and watch it. Although there are very often no arguments. But insight into why the public administration body has made such a decision, and not some other citizen should have one who is interested, and also one who is not. I say the HDSSB Club will accept this annual report and practical information on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2011 in the hope that the next 2012 Report will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8321	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Bilic? Or will you end up? In the end, thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Representative Sandra Petrovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. The following has applied for an individual representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, to be discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8322	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Someone has already mentioned here that we are living in an informed age and somehow strangely seems to be getting less and less information. Even though the information is growing more and more irrelevant, the ones that matter may be getting smaller. Despite the fact that governments of all countries are forced precisely by public pressure to open up and provide information about their work. When we passed the Law on the right to access information, we must remember that the main motive was and how this law should be observed, and, accordingly, only to evaluate the report, that it is a fundamental law, a Crucial law in the prevention of corruption and pressure simply to make the government good, to make the power calculated, to make it predictable, that citizens can control it. If the Law on the right to access information were consistently applied or applied consistently all these years many things would not happen in Croatia, Croatia would be much, much, and richer. If I didn't talk about the fact that the judiciary would be dealing with some other topics, not those that almost embarrassed Croatia. The law on the right to access information and this can be seen and read from the very report that it is to a good extent in conflict with the Privacy of Information Act. The Data Securitisation Act gives state authorities the power to label certain data themselves as classified data. In this way they place a veil of secrecy over such information even if it should not be. And then we're in some vicious circle and even a persistent application of the Law on the right to access information is simply mutilated at the beginning. Therefore, the amendments to the Data Securitisation Act should be considered to include a particular body that will be controlled by state authorities whether a particular information of such a nature must be kept secret. Because if we had such a thing solved then we wouldn't get as we did last year on the inquiry of a parliamentary representative as much as the government spent in hiring certain people for certain jobs getting an answer from the government that's a business secret. That's how the government, past power, declared itself to be a private company that does business in that way. Imagine such an misunderstanding of the nature of things at all and the implementation of the Law on the right to access information when business with government money, i.e. taxpayers' money, considers it their private right. So we didn't get the information about how paid the engagements were to represent the individual ministries of the agencies. Because then the government at the head of the then prime minister declared it to be a business secret. Or the examples I often point out and I think they should be highlighted, not to evacuate the past, but to never do it again. When an agent asks about certain jobs, about suspicious actions, about where the missing money in certain state-owned enterprises was then, as a rule, such representatives received insults and turned to others, a second generation mostly with insults and slanders. So when a government gives such answers instead of answers, then you know that it's a corrupt government, that it's hiding something and that it doesn't work legally. That's what we enjoyed last term. Here's when my colleague Marin Jurjevic asks where the money from Brodosplit is, gets the answer I know is bothering you, I know who your uncle was. And then instead of having such an answer come across the unanimous condemnation of all MPs, it is considered a political skill, and therefore it is not surprising that politics and politicians are so hated by the people and not just by us. So, we had a situation and it should be interrupted and I believe that it will happen that secret information, which really needs to be secret, remain secret, and those who need to enjoy the public to be with them and be, and not like we have often had the situation that what is secret and should remain secret has become public, you could read about it in all the media, and what should have been public it was declared a business secret. So, consistent application of the Law on the right to access information guarantees a good government, I think it's precisely an aide to the government to behave and repeat these three great qualities of good governance are precisely predictability, calculation and control. So these are the basics where all those attempts, or think that they would behave differently except under the law, are contained in the very beginning, according to the principle of the doctors themselves, it is better to prevent them than to treat them. So here's what we've heard from the government's own representative and not just about the situation, so all the information that one report has to look at. It is very good that we also heard one vision in which direction, so to improve the implementation of the Law on the right to access information and what Professor Kregar said always remember that the right of citizens to know on the other hand is one right for someone and a duty, and that is precisely for the bodies of public authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8323	Thank you. Next for an individual debate, MP Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am reporting in an individual debate from a personal point of view that this is an extremely important topic for every citizen and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I hereby urge the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to, as long as they can consume all their rights and to try for these rights and to help all those who can help to fight for them. The real value of the right to access information is the responsibility of the government against those for which it exists. Each government performs the tasks entrusted to it by its citizens and every institution and every administration serves its citizens. Therefore, anything treated from the budget, and anything that is a service to the public services, the institutions are paid by citizens and citizens must be subject to questioning, questioning, evaluation and evaluation. And the state's contemporary leadership is an open state that expects its citizens to participate in all processes even after the elections, to question those for whom they have or have not voted. Contemporary state leadership enables its citizens to assist in the development and improvement of the entire society through indirect and direct participation. In and out of this, citizens must feel comfortable, and must feel that all state institutions are their institutions and have every right to seek and demand from those who are currently in power, to lead their country with special attention and care, and to care for institutions and manage processes in the state and society. And certainly one of the powerful tools that makes it possible to question but the correct participation in the work of the government, the state institutions is the Law on the right to access information, access to information. And for that reason, for the sake of any interested public, let me quote a few, quote some information that is important to the public, which some of our citizens and citizens are probably not familiar with. First, what are the bodies of public authorities, which are obliged to provide information about their work? These are all state bodies, both the President of the Republic, and the Parliament, and the Government, and the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and all other courts, bodies of units of local, regional, regional self-government, legal persons with public authority and other persons to whom public powers have been transferred, legal persons whose programmes are established by law or act as public interest and are financed in whole or in part from the state budget or from the budget of units of local regional self-government, companies in which the Republic of Croatia, units of local regional self-government have separate or shared majority ownership. In Croatia, there are at least 5432 legal entities which are public authorities and which are obliged to report to the competent agency on the implementation of the Information Access Act and which are obliged to publish the information. The public authorities shall carry out regular information on their jurisdiction where there is no specific request and all decisions and measures affecting the interests of the users with reasons for their adoption, information on their work, including information on activities and organisations, labour costs and sources of financing. Information on submitted requests, performances, petitions, proposals as well as other activities taken over by users to the public authority. Information on the tendering of tender documents for public procurement and the reporting of contracts in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The bodies of public authorities whose competence is to draw up draft laws and sublegislative acts shall be obliged to publish drafts of those acts and to allow users to be made known within a reasonable period of time. The information available and supervised by the public authorities is contained in the catalogue of information. The public authority will establish a catalogue of information containing a systematic review of the information with a description of the content, purpose, mode of action and time of exercise of the right to access, a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. In order to ensure access to information, the public authority shall make a decision setting up an information officer and informing the public about the official information officer as well as how it works. In order to ensure public work, the public authorities are obliged to lay down their general acts the conditions under which direct public insight into their work is made possible. Public authorities are obliged to inform the public about the agenda of the session or meeting and the time of their maintenance, the way the authorities work and the possibilities of direct insight into their work, the number of persons who can at the same time provide direct insight into the work of the public authority, taking into account the order of registration. The public authorities shall be obliged to provide access to information in a timely manner by publishing information on their work in an appropriate and accessible manner, i.e. on the website of the public authority or in a public voice, in order to get to know the authorities. providing user information which has submitted the request in one of the following ways directly by providing information, providing information by written means, taking into account documents, making a copy of the document containing the requested information, providing copies of the document containing the requested information and other means appropriate to the exercise of the right to access information. Although all of the above can be found on the Internet, I think it is important to keep it on the Internet from all levels, and also from Parliament speakers to inform interested citizens and citizens about their rights, which, possibly due to ignorance and ignorance, do not consume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8325	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Replica was first reported by MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8326	I mean, a colleague when in your debate you specifically potentiate the government's duties, I think that's the face and look of the same thing, and I repeat, and you've apostropheeded Professor. Cregara is therefore the right of citizens and the duty of power. and we can directly link this to yesterday's law supplementing the laws of amendments and additions to the General Tax Law where we all talked about the duty and the unison of the citizens of their companies to pay taxes neatly. Well, there's a principle in the modern world where there's no tax without real information. Therefore, what it is and what it is, is the taste of the Law on the right to access information and the duty of a good authority to speak about where it spends money and not its own money, but the money of those same taxpayers who have a duty to pay taxes. Well, citizens have a right to know where that money's going. However, this taboo topic has been all these years, and so far it has led us to black bags, to bury and bury cash registers in gardens, because no data has been given to representatives and where to citizens. And in such a way, the government shows not only that it steals nothing, that there is nothing to hide, but that it shows that it respects these citizens, that it respects the taxpayer. Well, I think the time has finally matured for us to have one political consensus to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8327	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica by Representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8328	Thank you very much. I would completely agree with my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8329	Thank you. To your exposure, another replica. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8330	Thank you, dear Vice President. So here is a colleague, Blažekovic, in his discussion, said that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data found that the law enforcement reports were required to deliver a minimum of 5432 legal persons, which is in accordance with the amended Law on the right to access information which is extended by the circle of the obligors. Well, I'm going to say that more than half of it is precisely 51% of the taxpayers, so everyone else has not respected the law, ignored the law, ignored the citizens who pay for the state to actually solve their problems with all its institutions. What is almost amazing to me is the fact that the Constitutional Court has disobeyed, on the obligation to deliver this report, the highest institution to protect constitutional rights in the state. As we descend to lower levels of government, law enforcement is increasing. Less response in reporting, and reports that have been delivered are increasingly poor quality. It is particularly worrying that the courts as one of the pillars of government, especially those at lower levels, have also failed to submit reports in a high percentage. So 38% of local self-government units where citizens directly exercise their rights where their problems are solved directly have not also provided reports. It is a very bad situation in companies owned or controlled by the state. So these are persons of law who have huge assets and who directly influence their decisions on the standard of citizens, let's say that the increase in electricity prices, gas, is something that directly affects the lives of citizens. Even 53% of these companies did not submit their reports to the agency because they simply did not consider it important. So these data most clearly speaks about the attitude of state institutions versus the needs of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8331	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with Mrs. Jelesh's replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8333	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The next representative is Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8334	Honorable Vice President, respected director of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. So here's reading this extensive report delivered to us by the agency, we could find a series of interesting but of course disturbing data. First of all, I think that the interests of citizens and better visibility should complement the name of the agency itself and make it visible in the very name that citizens exercise their right to access information through this agency. Why does it matter? So for reasons because the agency is in fact a sort of transparency controller in the work of the public administration and the availability of information that the administration brings daily, as regards every citizen. It is unfortunate that many public administration sectors do not actually meet their obligations to provide information to citizens from state level to local level, and the law is clear, information or information must be given to the applicant. Therefore, it is worrying that only half of the public authorities have submitted their information report to the Agency. If we treat the agency this way as if we're just treating the citizens, we can only ask ourselves in this situation. It is alarming, in fact, that we are descending lower on the hierarchy scale of the public authority's body, that we are detecting more and more of the problems citizens have with obtaining information. Perhaps it is in that segment and the highest responsibility of the agency to work on better education of these parts of the public government because there may be problems from the very ignorance of employees of the body of the public authority. The municipalities and cities must be the most transparent part of the public administration because they are in direct and daily contact with citizens who in this way further control them in their work. There is another problem, and it is actually a classification of documents by the public administration body with a label of secrecy and thus needlessly concealing data and creating an impression of manipulation and non-transparency, and many local environments are elephants secretly declared from a project to a sports hall to a snow-cleaning contract. In this segment, the law must be clear and allow citizens to access the requested information when they need it. In addition to the observed shortcomings and the need to improve the work of the agency, I would merely point out the importance of the work of this agency, but also the fact that it must be more visible and better and more present in the media in order to point out the importance of the segment it deals with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8335	We have a replica of your exposure. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8336	My colleague Habek agrees with your presentation, but you mentioned the ignorance of those who should give information sometimes, so sometimes I say, but ignorance does not justify it. In addition, there is a consultation institute in public administration bodies, public authorities, and then one person who receives a particular request for data can consult with a number of other persons who are in a series of such authorities or public administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8337	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Agent Iron Happy Flego, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8338	Thank you very much. I fully agree with the Director because, in principle, every right brings with it responsibility and obligation. It also seems to me that the right to information and the protection of personal data are two persons of one and the same money or one and the same medals. And I'm glad that this information-right complex is taken with the protection of personal data because it actually introduces a very sensitive subject that could be called a relationship between private and public where the border is very narrow, and that needs to be redefined and re-thematized over and over again to know exactly what we're talking about. In other words, with one technical note, each government is a public authority, the public authority is actually a literal translation of public authority, I would advise you to use the term of different levels and different types of government instead of public authorities. So different types, different levels of government have the right, have the obligation and the right to provide information until they reach the border of personal data. And that raises another question, how many public affairs do we have the right to privacy, where we draw the line, and that could also be regulated. I fear that both the availability of information and the protection of personal data are very often broken by us out of ignorance, from the ignorance of all those who should give information and from the ignorance of those who give too much information or who use different motives of personal data and who are not entitled to it. Therefore, it seems to me that appropriate campaigns should be organised that can be called information, information, information or education, education, education that can be conducted in different seminars, and in this sense it seems to me that the agency has done well what it has done, perhaps not extensively intensively enough, so if there is a possibility I would suggest that more of these seminars be done. ... in that media campaign, but I'm sorry, who's gonna talk about who but me about education and school, at school. [[You don't understand.]] So there's something called civic education, civil education, and there we need to have a lot more represented elements of rights and children and citizens than is the case so far, but also a warning that these rights reach personal data. The availability of information is a very significant indicator of the functioning of the state, i.e. the functioning of the government at different levels. There have been some shifts, but there are still insufficient and invaluable. We've been listening to a whole series of remarks about how some deformities worked, how they came into existence, and I think it's never so good that it couldn't be better, and we want to have all the information available that concerns the authorities at any level and any kind of level. The quality of democracy depends on information. In order to be able to make measurement decisions, we need to be adequately informed, so information is a key assumption of democracy, and this information requires our personal well-being, which in public life depends largely on how much we participate in power. And in power, we can only participate as much as we know that we can participate and make decisions about what we know. Therefore, information is a very significant assumption in the different segments of our lives with far-reaching coincidences. In particular, decision-making or law-making, laws are very complex regulations, so we invite all citizens, we have public debates on key laws, we are looking for observations and different proposals. In order for all of this to be possible, it also requires a completely different dissemination of information than it has so far. And finally, Mr. Director, we are witnessing new forms of more or less individual, but that it is not always individual personal data injuries. They're more or less electronic, so online. There's a professional term that's been used for several years. It's cyberbullyng. So the online abuse used by individuals in their freedom of access to the Internet falsify information about someone or provide information about someone, so it took such an extent that there are Internet police in some countries. There are very intense discussions about whether Facebook can give someone else our personal information, which is not a little harmless and not a bit irrelevant. There is a very widespread cyberbullyng among students. Thus, students produce different films about either the abuse or the ridicule of someone else, and increasingly about abuse or abuse of teachers. Hence, strict teachers in some countries suffer very severely. I'm warning you, so I'm asking you to perhaps concentrate in the future on this very complex problem to have better protection of personal data. And in the end, we have shown a whole series of dissidents so far, and I hope that there will be a significant change in the way the government works and in the availability of data, so I thank you almost in advance for participating in this very energetically.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8339	Thank you. Next up for debate representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8340	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Director. I would also like to make a contribution this year to the debate on this report because we have been following it very closely for several years, trying to contribute to our critical approach, but also to the proposals to improve citizens' information systems under the Law on the right to access information that has proved to be dual. On the one hand, an exceptional tool that can significantly help citizens to make easier, simpler and more efficient use of this information system in order to achieve their own law defined and guaranteed rights. But on the other hand, it has also proved to be one medium through which we have actually learned how ineffective the system of public intelligence of citizens and interested persons is, therefore, that the relevant social topics affecting each of us are, among other things, taxpayers. It is obvious that the changes to the laws themselves that took place relatively recently allowed this system to improve. But the common assessment is that the solution that has been offered to us and which has become a legal standard unfortunately has not met all the expectations that this law can truly in full fulfill its social purpose. A task has been put on the Agency’s back or back with which it is difficult to deal with, and since it is not staffed, the means at its disposal are limited and unfortunately there are no mechanisms for those who do not respect this Law to sanction it in a way that does not repeat it. Reports in recent years show on the one hand that citizens' interest in achieving their own right to be informed, so it is growing. The fact is also that many bodies with public powers are doing their duties correctly but we are still in the shadow of that famous guideline issued in due time by the current constitutional judge, who has been told to all public authorities that they do not have to answer to anyone unless they explicitly call upon the right under this law, which is actually a great shame and fraud. I hope someone pulled that trigger and he's no longer in effect. This instrument that the law actually designed to make it easier for citizens to exercise their rights enables us, among other things, to monitor how public funds are spent. If it hadn't been for this institute, we wouldn't have learned a large number of relevant information about how taxpayers' funds were spent in public authorities and it is certainly a fact that interested citizens' associations such as GONG would be doing an alternative report each year, which is doing simulations, which is doing surveys to assess the objectivity of the report that the Ministry of Administration had previously given, and now gives the Agency. So it is certainly a fact that these instruments have improved the overall system, but it is also clear that we are not using any information. We're all occupied at least at a symbolic level right now because it's really happening in some courtroom, for example, by the Fimi Media case, and the Fimi Media has a lot, and they've happened in different ways and at different levels. If it hadn't been for this Act, we wouldn't have come to the information that suggests, for example, that a company owned by a son of a very high-ranking state official from the HDZ in the last few years has earned 74 and a half million kuna from public companies on the basis of contracts, i.e. contracts concluded to deliver so on. appropriate gifts. From HEP alone, the company received more than 700,000 kuna. The latest case is that Croatia's broadcasting bought watches from the company on the occasion of its 50th anniversary. And speaking of Croatian broadcasters, two facts are interesting that the person in charge of information has recently received notice of termination. The second announced by GONG a few days ago to be formally asked by referring to this law on how much and how the funds from the budget available to Croatian Radio Television for Law Services were spent in 2011. And while Croatia's broadcasting until 2 months ago responded neatly, as it is an obligation under this law, wonders for this question answers by refusing and argues that it is no longer an obligation to provide information under the Law on the right to access information. Therefore, information on how much they spent on legal services and what exactly was declared a business secret. I, by the circumstances, had some day’s insight into a document showing that only one law firm in the period from 15 December to 16 January this year invoiced a total service worth nearly 5 million kuna to HRT. I have no doubt that there was a reason for the business interests and content of these contracts on which it was invoiced, but I am very skeptical that the public has no right to know about it. What are the services and by which the logic of 24 law firms is powered by the public funds of HRT, and we say parliamentary representatives or interested public have no right to know about it. If all is clear, transparent, fair, congratulating why is this information hidden? I hope the agency reacts immediately because this is a public matter. GONG made her public a few days ago. And it is good, in the end, that there is this law, it is not good that the idea of its realisation and respect was not accepted by the Special Commissioner. It's not a good thing this job was put on a burden to an agency that wasn't teamed up. It seems to me that someone had a clear interest in giving it formally to an independent agency, but that they would not be given funds or space to really oversee it properly. Well, then it's a very hypocritical structure. We've got whoever's responsible, who can, but we're not gonna give him any space and resources. In that sense, I call on our government, the government that took office five months ago to change this position, to change its attitude towards those who must oversee this law and to find and the means, and then to engage people to do it in a real, quality and above all for all taxpayers satisfactory manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8341	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Representative Branko Vuksic first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8342	Mr. Beus, you were talking about HRT, the way money is being built, but it's not the only way to make money on HTV without the public knowing it. One of the great pains right on Prisavlje is that all financial transactions are, for example, the biggest ones about shooting shows in an external production where tens or hundreds of millions of kunas are spent is a business secret. Those who demand that HRT administration speak publicly about how they spend public money are punished. So 10 days ago, Elizabeth Gojan was suspended because she talked about it, or punished by reproof before she was fired. I think this House should take the view that such things should not happen, that people who ask for public talk about public money instead of rewards are being punished, and we have been watching it peacefully in this House for months. Instead of all the information about how to spend money on HRT is put on the Internet that all those people who pay television subscription, who dig through garbage cans so that 80 kunas can pay gentlemen on HRT know what money is spent on, we have no right to have information where hundreds of millions of kuna are spent, and during that time the administration that destroys HRT raises large loans to pay for salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8343	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Agent Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8344	Your colleague Vuksic is one of the representatives who is in a certain way just as I may be privileged about this topic because, as chairman of the Information Committee, you certainly get a lot of information, people appear without having to contact you and me by sending documentation, evidence that, on HRT, non-transparently, unlawfully, improperly spending public money. But here I will remind or at least point out that the key problems at HRT are at least when it comes to the management's relationship with the employees beginning exactly the moment when the question of the transparency of money spending began. That's the key point. And you're absolutely right whenever someone started a story about how much and under what conditions external productions are paid while internal plants are standing unemployed why and how they spend funds on certain services that can be done inside the house was followed by a hack, public punishment for people who publicly dare to talk about it. And that's why we now have a situation where people mostly cover up their requests to protect their identity deliver that information because they don't believe in their own safety anymore. If the person in charge of the Information Access Act is the same as the person in charge of providing information, if that person systematically informs people in HRT about how they behave improperly and spend money, if that person received notice before they were fired, then you know what time it is. The scar would say it's midnight of the human mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8345	Thank you. We have another replica, Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8346	Thank you very much. My colleague Beus is exactly what you said, but I'd like to sign everything, but I need to look back at what you're saying so public television makes a deal with a certain one, there's information, is there any information, with certain law firms. It actually seems to be a pattern that not only behaves in HRT but also units of local and regional self-government. It is precisely through such contracts that are in some way secret and it is very difficult to reach them, to these conditions under which they are signed and where they are actually, there is a huge doubt actually about money laundering for one purpose. Secondly, you were talking about Fima Media and Secrets that had ministries or public enterprises like I know and the Ministry of Interior, HEP and others that were then through the Media, without us knowing anything about it. But there are other secrets, not only are the Fimi media secrets, the secret is that the Excelsior hotel was sold in Dubrovnik, as the privatized Erste bank, pardon the Rijeka Bank, and then a series of Dubrovnik fortunes that went away and that we really can't know anything about it today, so let's just say Victor Lenac and the donations that went without any information to the public, and that we don't know anything besides what there are and criminal charges about all these acts we still don't know anything about it, I haven't heard the details of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8347	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8348	My colleague Grubisic I share part of your frustrations which as a national representative you cannot obtain information that is important among other things and for you to do your job in quality is not the first time. Remember how many times we've been told here that we can't get information about whether someone paid the tax, not how much tax they paid, but whether someone paid the tax because the last government declared it a tax secret. It's not a tax secret if it's someone, and it can't be, if someone paid the tax because it has to be a public matter, it's about public money. The secret can only be how much taxes are paid and not for everything, and that secret has its limits. Therefore, if the Government has set itself up with it, then the IRS, that we as the People's Representatives cannot get the elemental information about whether anyone respects the law, then it is no wonder that both in other situations and in other resolutions what they have been doing. But here's the time to talk about it publicly and to change this practice and to call on the executive authority to change that practice wherever we point to the inadmissibility of this practice. It is therefore important that whoever thinks they can and should know something about the public, the use of this institute that gives them the right to access information. And therefore, thank God that we have it, but it would be finally time for all those who do not respond to the polls, namely their legal obligation to report whether they have acted under this law, so all those who ignore it ultimately respond. If, in the future, the directors of public enterprises must be responsible for their own assets for the business of these companies, let them be responsible for respecting the law in this respect and the mayors, and the mayors, and the mayors, and the mayors, and the directors of all public enterprises, and not all public authorities should mock citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8349	Thank you. We have another replica, Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8350	Here are your colleagues in your speech about how Croatian television has declared business information, i.e. representing a lawyer with a business secret. I set an example in my presentation that the government has declared a business secret equal to business. On the question of one representative, how much was spent, who represented individual companies, state-owned or part-owned by the state, individual ministries, each agency received a response from the then government that it was a business secret. See, that's one of the ethics under which all these things were happening, the Fimi Media, which has loose branches, so I call it all over Croatia that hasn't even touched yet, so no one's touched it yet. And such a policy that had its own veil, that is, the whole government's conduct, under the edigo of business secrets, has impoverished Croatia, has led such a ruling policy to the defendant's bench. But what is even more devastating, and let's not forget that it was just a continuation of the politics of the 1990s of the same government that declared the state secret what it was meant to reveal because it was the cost of Croatian generals. So it was a state secret in the 1990s, and since 2004, we have a business secret. One and the other was devastating for Croatia and for individuals, but it was certainly fruitful for individuals, a business secret state with which only privileged people could do business with the state, charge themselves, but also for imaginary jobs in this is still the biggest problem, and I say, for the sake of the health of the nation, for the sake of the health of the citizens, that this authority reveals it and publicly announced it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8351	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8352	Comrade Anticevic, you're absolutely right. It was actually a reflection of the policy, which cyclically showed how it refers to the public's right to know relevant information. I'll remind you of only one case, the other day I mentioned it, so Mrs. Kosor reacted very badly to it, but that's a fact. In 2008, the Croatian Parliament is obliged by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to come to the Croatian Parliament each year with a report on state and nation conditions. We received an answer when such a report was not delivered in 2010, and we could not discuss it that it was only the government led by Mr Ivo Sanader, that it did not apply to it, as if in conclusion it had written anything about names regardless of who the presidents were and who ministers were. So, if the Prime Minister has this position that she has nothing to report to Parliament, then all the lower ones in the hierarchy of course follow that position and say you have nothing to know because it is a business secret. I hope, for example, that Minister Linic and the Director of the Tax Administration Cavlović Smiljanec will finally give information to the public, is it true that in a few years of his term, the former finance minister used exactly the Institute of Tax Secrets to discreetly, or with the right of discretion, forgive some of the tax debts. Nomina sant odios" so I won't mention what companies and individuals are about, but I would like the current leadership and the Ministry of Finance, and in particular the IRS to deny me, would be easier for me. If those rumors were confirmed, it would be terribly difficult for me, because I would be ashamed, and I believe that there are also chosen ones who are closer to the altar, and they are better able to hear the Mass and those who are therefore privileged in this society. I hope that time has passed privileged, that a time has passed in which we have not all been the same, and that every one should be equal, every one according to the law as our Constitution does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8353	Thank you. We're done discussing the individual. Mr. Bilic in short.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8354	Honorable Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. I'll just take a quick look at the discussions we heard here today. In fact, the legislator also had an extraordinary intention and a hunch that this law should be discussed in the Assembly. And this debate today has shown full justification that Article 25 has obliged the Agency in this case to submit a report on the implementation of this law and that then MPs have the right and the opportunity to point out all the illogicalities, misunderstandings or shortcomings in the implementation of this law. I agree that this report is really a forest where sometimes only a tree is lost, but here it is this year. Next year will be different, will be more concise and will be done according to EU rules. What is important and what you have pointed out in your discussions is the attitude of the right to access information and to protect personal data. It's something that's very important and that overlaps in many ways. Last year, in fact, the agency organized a conference in Zagreb in cooperation with the European partners on the right to access a balance of the right to access information and the right to protection of personal data. With media participation, with the participation of journalists, so people who most often represent information but who then have to balance between the right to privacy and the right to the public to know. Unfortunately, the agency only acts in the second degree on the principle of appeal. We cannot react to the infringements of privacy, especially not on the internet unless we receive a complaint, and we are aware that the Internet is very fast to show up at one hour and in 10 minutes or 24 hours as Agent Grubisic pointed out disappeared. Meanwhile, damage has been done during this period, unfortunately the agency does not have a spot mechanism. Also, this case with HRT must therefore receive a written complaint and only then may it proceed in the process of protecting the right to access information. I'd still like to introduce Flego to two more important things, and one of the main things the agency is going to turn to in the next period is education or public dating. Here's to Friday, and this way I invite you and I invite the Croatian public to join us in the offices of the agency. We organize in collaboration with the Ministry of Education with the Croatian Teachers' Association with Microsoft we organize a lecture on safer internet. It means not only to protect children on the Internet from various services, but to point out to them the importance of providing their own information, personal data, personal third parties. There is another concept that we have not touched, which is the "cloud computing" that is increasingly present and which, because of the use of cheap resources in third countries, gives the opportunity for modern IT systems to store data beyond the borders of Croatia, which is again a particular problem and what is also being discussed in the European Commission. In the end, I would just point out that your support for this report is ultimately not being seen as a relief by the Agency as a relief here we have now received confirmation of the work, but I understand it as an obligation as one task that in the period ahead of us, which is only 6 months actually this year we need to improve the work of the agency, we need to be more public, more present in the media and constantly point to citizens' rights to access information but also to the right to protection, but it may be the best way for this agency to achieve its role despite those legal provisions that they prescribe and penalties for failing to comply with these legal provisions. But I think prevention is always more important and always more effective. I hope that we will have the support of the Parliament, that we will have the support of the Government and that, of course, we will, first and foremost, support the public and NGOs in our work and that by the end of the year, we will fill in everything that we have drawn out. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8355	Thank you. This concludes the debate, we'll vote at 12 o'clock, and by 12 o'clock, I'll determine a recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-18-0.u8356	Finally, an annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2011. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the basis of proposals from the working bodies: "A yearly report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2011. a year." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the conclusion that we have now stated is accepted unanimously by 109 votes. We're finishing the work of a colleague and a colleague this week. We continue our work on Wednesday 23.05.2012 at 9.30 p.m., with the proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work at the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. Before we move to work, please allow me to congratulate Mr Tomislav Karamark on the election of HDZ President and hope for good cooperation. We're going back to work. - Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Proposing a decision of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You've received a proposal for an act on the benches. In making this decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, therefore, to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the report at the session. Whether the proposing representative would like to further explain the proposal, which would be Mr. Josip Leko, vice-president of the Croatian Parliament and the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
