ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5352	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In this solemn but working moment, I ask myself the eternal question of what is the goal, and what is the means in life and politics? Is the Croatian State a goal or a means? Is democracy a goal or a means to achieve a better and safer life? Is the European Union a goal or a means of being stronger as a state and is the state itself a goal or a means? These are the questions you ask politics every day. Given that life is short and that in the political and biological life of an individual cannot happen too many things, all of these things are both a goal and a means. So it's a state and a goal and a means. The goal of one generation or more generations of people living in the same space and who feel like a nation, but also a means to be safer, more self-aware, richer, more resilient. Democracy for our generation is the goal. Because we grew up, grew up and lived one whole year without democracy. But it is also a means to have a richer, more successful, more resilient and stronger state. And finally what is the European Union? We decided at a referendum to make Croatia an EU member. Is the EU a target or a means? Many times, for this speaker, and not only me and many of you from all parties stressed that the EU is a means of achieving a better quality of life, a higher level of security, simply more levels on the scale of the human happiness index. And when you look at the EU that way, it's really a means. But it's about our generation and our goal. These goals will be more, but this is one of those important goals in life that is the journey again, not the goal. Forgive me for giving myself some freedom at first to wise about these things, but these are the questions I've been asking myself for the last 20 years as a diplomat, which as a politician kept asking. Where are we going, I'm setting myself up today, and what happens when we go where we go? Where we are in the end, we are now on the EU threshold. What do we do? As I see it, how do I believe that the government should function, as I believe, firmly believe that we as a Parliament, but also wider as a society, as a community must function? There's a few of us. We're a small country. In the conversation, contacts for years, and especially lately with fellow statesmen, you realize how much everyone's focus is its focus or focus. How often you're out of that focus. How large, with full right and full understanding, they don't think small simply because they have a different perspective, they see things differently. Aware of this, we need to specialize and focus on what is important to us. We don't have people to deal with everything, we don't have money to pay for it all, we need to recognize what's important to us, what are EU instruments to achieve our goals. And now we're going back to our instruments and our goals. In the coming years, however, the EU will be the primary instrument in order to achieve its objectives. The goals are a stable and secure state, a stable budget, a sovereign and quality management of their own resources, a higher level of employment, safer jobs, better quality jobs for Croatian people. Looking at the EU again, we see that it is not a panacea. For the past few years, this severe crisis has only raised this awareness throughout the continent. Something that once, or 4 to 5 years ago, seemed to be a more or less monolithic block of states that, evenly with similar growth rates, similar technology to harmonised legal systems, have progressed towards increasing wealth and security in the last three years has proved to be not all the same. Which does not mean that those who are worse off are worse off than those who are more successful are perfect, but success has its reasons and arguments as well as failure has its reasons and arguments, has its deeper story. I believe that Croatia can be fully able to use the European Union, use it in a positive way, not abuse it as an instrument of creating a stronger, more quality and more successful state in which people will be better, in which people will be self-aware, secure, simply feel good. That happiness index we've been hearing about for years is actually a very tangible category, the happiness index isn't high at this point, or unfavourable, the happiness index in some countries is high, in some terribly low, I think it's very important without what's been going on in Europe, we're not all the same, some are managing in a very sovereign way, thoughtfully, if you want a calculated way, a fair way, and some simply can't understand these things. We've seen enough, we've studied enough, we don't have an excuse anymore. There is not many of us, I stress again and we need to make a very smart and thoughtful assessment of what we are investing in and what is important to us, we cannot talk about everything, we cannot know everything, we cannot decide everything, with this reality you meet already at first meetings in the European Union, that there are limits, that there are limits. He who is aware of his limitations will achieve something, one who is unaware of them, who I think is unlimited, he will wander forever and never be found. After 20 years it's time to round up the country, this is the moment we've achieved the goal, we've got one important asset, it's still on us. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5353	Here is Foreign and European Minister Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5354	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members, ladies and gentlemen. As the prime minister has said a great moment for this country, a great moment for this Parliament and I must say personally for those of us who have been on this project since the very beginning, which has formally begun to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2001, and who today as regards the Croatian Parliament is experiencing its culmination, I would say with ratification of the Croatian political identity and membership in the Croatian Parliament. Five words come to mind about this subject. Croatia, the European Union, consensus, responsibility and self-respect. All developed in these 12, 13 years as long as this process lasts. For us, certainly the European Union and the whole process of joining the European Union was much more, and I would say even in the first place was the construction of a state, the construction of institutions that we didn't have 12 years ago, today we had, which we didn't have some two years ago, today was the construction or selection of a European identity from many of the possibilities that always exist, especially in countries which are the historical border choice of this identity was the first political consensus that I think we should particularly appreciate and value, and I think it's unusual that it's important that we learned to recognize ourselves, choose what we agree on and not only enhance what we disagree on, taught us responsibility that no one can, it's not logical that it will help you if you can't help yourself first and finally taught us self-esteem. We can do it and we did it. Let me now say a few technical things about the law itself. The reason why the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament ratifies or confirms the Accession Treaty after it has been confirmed by Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Italy, Malta, so 5 members of the European Union is not because we did not exactly manage, but because there was a legal obligation that 30 days after the official publication of the results of the referendum, which was 2 or 3 February that the Constitutional Court, the State Election Commission and the Constitutional Court allowed the possibility of complaints, contesting the results of this whole procedure. The procedure ended on 3 March and 5 March 2012, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decided to establish that the referendum was implemented in accordance with the Law and that the results were fully valid. At this point, we are therefore discussing a subject that we have discussed in some way in a preliminary or earlier way when a decision was made in December on the calling of a referendum. We discussed in parallel with the referendum decision, and this Parliament has decided that the topic of Croatian membership or accession to the European Union will allow the citizens of this country to decide directly, so not in the representative model of democracy but directly. And on January 22nd, they decided with a 66.27% score for and 33.13% against. In this way we have exactly two-thirds of the country's citizens decided where Croatia is going, of course remains geographically, where it goes in its political identity, where it goes in its political identity and where it goes in its development. The accession Treaty, which shall be ratified and constitute the basic text of the Treaty, the Act of Accession and the Final Act. The basic text of the contract has 4 articles and it defines, among other things, that if it fulfils all the preconditions defined by the supervision model or monitoring from the moment the negotiations are concluded until the moment of accession, Croatia will become a full member at its own pace on 1 July 2013. The second part is the Act of Accession, which determines the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, also contains the necessary adjustments to the original contracts and relevant secondary EU legislation. The accession act is also accompanied by original Croatian contracts which become one of the official languages of the EU and therefore is accompanied by the text in Croatian from all the contracts that the Republic of Croatia becomes on the day of its entry into the EU. The accession contract has 55 articles, 9 annexes, 2 annexes and 1 protocol. I'd especially like to warn you about those annexes here. Of these annexes in particular or supplements, they are particularly interesting 7, 8 and 9. In these additions 7, 8 and 9 is defined as the position of Croatian shipbuilding and obligations taken over in that segment, the definition and restructuring of the steel sector and I forgot what the third one is, I will remember, which is the third addition. In any case, take a special look at these three supplements. Final act, Final act is the final political document of the Intergovernmental Conference. It contains texts drawn up and adopted at an Intergovernmental Conference and takes note of the days issued in connection with the implementation of the Accession Treaty as well as the exchange of letters between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on the notification and counselling procedure for certain decisions and other measures in the period until the date of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. There is also Article 36 here. This article defines a model of supervision or monitoring, so it is defined that Croatia will send EU reports on the implementation of its own laws and reforms by the time of accession. The EU monitoring model ends 1.7.2013. My absolute suggestion will be that as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, he never stops. In other words, we take that custom to follow and have monitoring mechanisms whether we implement our own laws and to what extent these laws function or require adaptation and any changes. So, as far as the EU is concerned, we are under monitoring until 1.7.2013, in particular three chapters of justice and fundamental rights, competition and justice, freedom and security. As far as we are concerned, I hope that we have learned responsibility in this regard to our own legislation, including what the Parliament is doing here and that we will abide by our own laws. Component and financial package for access. I'm not going to go into the details here right now, but I can if anyone in the debate is interested. In total for the second half of 2013, so the first year Croatia is a full member is 6 months, it provides for 687.5m euros in different forms for the Republic of Croatia as well as for what is safe and what if it has quality projects will be able to use 267.7m euros as well as what will be paid into the European budget for the first 6 months. The component is a stabilisation mechanism for Member States whose currency is the euro. It is another element that defines the level of discipline for EU Member States whose currency is the euro. We are not in that situation yet, but this provision and this article are ratified along with our access contract, so you will see it here as an integral part of the document that you received. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank in the first place all the people in this country who recognized the great opportunity and went to the referendum and said what they were thinking. Of course I'm very glad that two-thirds said yes, but we'll do everything in our power and show those who said no, that they've changed their minds and that they can change their minds and have the basis to change their minds. Secondly, I would like to thank the Croatian Parliament for having conducted this procedure for 12 years, which held that course for 12 years and held a consensus at the end of 7 years. And those who were there know that it wasn't always the easiest, but it paid off and it was unusually important. I would like to thank the negotiating team, I would like to thank all the people in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and in all the other ministries, some of them are there who have worked on it well and successfully for years and I think it is my turn that those who brought this whole job out in a technical, organisational sense here recognize it and, of course, I would like to thank all the governments that have made us here today and that we have this great chance. Thank you very much. .../Applause.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5355	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. As usual, we go to a club debate first. The first answered for a word on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5356	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected ministers, respected representatives of the diplomatic assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have discussed the European Union and the advantages of membership in this House several hundred times in the last few years, i.e. Every time we worked to adapt our legislation to a European acquis, we did a kind of communication strategy and we took another step in the accession process. This time, the path of Croatia's EU accession comes to an end exactly as we said when we discussed during the referendum's opening as the end of one beginning. We have come a long way, a great deal has been done and this way we thank all the people who have actively contributed that we can ratify the accession agreement today. Today is indeed a solemn day, but I dare say that today is both the historic day and the decision we make, which is a decision on where we belong and how we see Croatia in the coming years will have an important impact on the lives of all our citizens. But we are convinced that this is a good decision and that Croatia is ready to be a successful EU member. Our accession process and our path to full membership lasts for more than 10 years, taking both the date of Croatia's entry into the EU and in that decade our country has undergone a huge transformation of institutions, reform of the rule of law and political maturation. We know that the accession process has significantly accelerated all these reforms, but we also know that we have implemented these same reforms ourselves to improve our citizens. And that's why we know that today we're ready for all the commitments that await us. I dare say that Croatia's recent entry into the EU is a success story. First on Croatia's success, the second on the EU's success and the third on a kind of success for the whole region because let's not forget that Croatia's entry into the EU is becoming a kind of European regional HAP especially in terms of economic policy. Full membership brings many advantages to Croatia and our citizens, and this time it should be mentioned once again, and that is that EU membership is there because of our citizens. Not because of politics and political parties, but because of our citizens. It is there because of our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, our farmers, all those who can have a concrete profit from the single labour market and the single placement space for goods and services. It is there because of our young people who can take advantage of a whole series of educational opportunities that provides a unique space for education. Membership is there for our cities, our municipalities, our regions that can experience a kind of infrastructure Renaissance and become branded places within the EU itself. So, it's here for students, professors, scientists, farmers, health workers, pensioners. So, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will soon feel directly or indirectly the benefits of membership. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia makes significant contributions to the EU. We are small, but we contribute to our culture, our unique tradition and our history, which will first and foremost become the building material of European identity that is best described in the sentence united in diversity. With Croatia, the European Union is also getting new experience. The first of them is the experience of a country and society that, in a relatively short time since 15 years of war destruction, post-conflict maturation is often very difficult and slow to eventually become an EU member through detailed reforms. This experience can significantly help the EU, which is now facing the post-conflict societies of the Southern Mediterranean. With Croatia comes another experience, a very important experience, and these are the concrete results of a new way of negotiating membership. As you know, Croatia is currently the only soon-to-be future member of the Union that has gone through a new detailed job of joining the Union. And what's likely to be the model for future expansions. This is therefore a direct profit for the EU as a whole. But it's also an experience, so it's a direct gain for the whole region. Croatian membership in the Union announces further positive changes in the region, further strengthening stability in our neighbourhood, but as Croatia commits us to partnership and to help all our neighbours on their way to the EU. And we'll do it without political coercion or personal agendas. We also face many challenges. The European Union is not integration, which we have already talked about many times, which solves everything with magic sticks or in remote areas without any participation of our institutions. However, as you can see, our institutions are already participating in the work of the Council, such as the prime ministers and ministers, the Committee of the Regions, and soon the Croatian Parliament will participate actively in the work of the European Parliament. As a member of the EU, therefore, we are still responsible for our destiny, and as much as we do well, it will be good for this country and for all citizens. So this should be repeated again in the EU we are still masters through the system of co-determining the masters of our destiny and it is up to us to find our European niche. We also have before us a continuation of the work on reforms and commitments under the monitoring process, further preparation of the state for future structural funds and the achievement of a whole set of objectives set out in different European policies and strategies such as those in Europe 20/20. I would like to mention this in particular because this is a key EU strategy which clearly travels and our journey to a European country of better quality education, more employment, the country of increased living standards, energy independence and active action in the field of environmental protection. That time I mention especially because it won't be easy, it won't be cheap. But as of 1 July 2013 Croatia will not be alone or alone on this road we will have our European friends and partners with us. My colleagues and colleagues, despite our political differences, the EU has been a point of national consensus and a common goal. Let us maintain this consensus today by voting for our European future. Thank you. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5357	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5358	Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Representatives, Your Excellency, Mr. Nuncia. YES, unusually, I think someone said that, I think, the foreign minister that a whole series of European parliaments before Croatia ratified this Agreement. How do I read that? In a way that speaks in fact about the European Union's goodwill, one of its kind of recognitions, the trust given to the Republic of Croatia at this moment after a positive referendum on Europe. It's true that we've been waiting for a while for the Constitutional Court to decide. This decision of the Constitutional Court is exactly what we were hoping for, it is true that it is not, it should be recognised, changed in its own time a year ago by the Croatian Constitution, the question of what would happen with the referendum. The referendum was attended by 50% of Croatian citizens, or voters, unfortunately not voted 50% of the total number of registered citizens. BUT I am a non-spectacular response, if we look at these positive results of 66 and some percent, which means two thirds, it says that Croatian citizens have literally decided for Europe. I say as someone said maybe my predecessor that this positive referendum, something good has happened to Croatia but this positive referendum is certainly good for the institutions of the European Union. Croatia enters the European Union for a year and a few days, we must also admit that Europe has done a lot for Croatia, has given us international recognition, helped us end the war, but we also have to admit that no European country that entered the European Union after the fall of the Berlin Wall has gone through what the Republic of Croatia has been going through. The Republic of Croatia has been through the war, our cities have been destroyed, from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, we have been through a refugee crisis at some moments 400, 500 thousand citizens from our neighbouring countries of the Republic of Croatia have been in coastal cities, in Zagreb, Varazdin, however, we also have to say conversion, we have had an adventure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will not talk about it. We changed one social arrangement, we lost because of the war, because of the NATO coup on SR Yugoslavia, 6.7 tourist seasons, we didn't return industrial production today, we lost because of the war on the foreign market, and I'm not counting any further. Europe today, as the prime minister said, has many problems, we live along this border with Slovenia, Italy, I follow the mood of citizens both in the Slovenian part of Istria and in that Venice, Giulia, those most developed parts of Slovenia, either Italy, and they are also aware if we in Croatia simply have no place but slowly they are losing that faith towards the European institutions in some way but we simply have no place to go. Why am I saying that? Recently, Prime Minister Milanovic said he would consider whether to open two international advances or more in BiH, I would say from my Istrian experience if you were to open them as much as possible to communicate with the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina both with Croatia and with the European Union. The same goes for the border crossings up towards Serbia. Schengen will especially hit the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as it has hit my Istrians there since 91st when it was established or when the borders appeared. Other people of BiH, Montenegro and Serbia will also be affected if we want peace, and we want peace. If we want to integrate in some way, not us but all together, and these parts of the European border must not be a barrier to any cooperation. I said Croatia needs Europe, but Europe also needs Croatia. Croatia has an intact nature, we have a beautiful sea, we have wonderful people, we have unpolluted land, we have Europe on the other hand, not Europe, their business banks have left our commercial banks, telecommunications, we will soon have insurance, tomorrow I want to believe that we will not be HEP but in return someone said before me, Europe has both market and value and is able to help and is in some way "track us". I hope that Istria will use it for its export economy, I want to use it for tourism, etc., cross-border cooperation, I want to believe that it will be used by others in the Republic of Croatia. I want to believe that we are safer in Europe than we are outside the same, but the European Union, I dare say at this point, is neither idealized nor need to be mystified, but it certainly needs to be believed in these institutions. When I speak to friends in Slovenia today, either in Italy or when they talk about Europe mostly speak about Greece, arguing that helping Greece also helps their banks, so recently I saw that the average German for the rescue of their economy gives Greece 445 euros, French 417, Italian 396 euros, Spanish 354 euros, the European average is 265 and that Croatia in the European Union would have singled out 255 euros. I, on the other hand, answer to them, however, is being helped by such countries. I'm telling us no one needs help, we ourselves clearly need to help. In 2013 we spoke recently Croatia can withdraw about 800m euros from these European funds if we have a clear programme. And these around 450 to 800m euros would go for some regional development, 150m to 200m euros for rural development. But in order to pull that out in the Union, we need to enter our 267.7m-euro access card, okay, that's 1:2.5 ratio. In 2014 these amounts can be twice as high, but Croatia's isolation in the European Union will certainly be higher. Why do I sort of interpret the European Union as I do today? In Europe, it is easier to defend, for example, a credit rating, in Europe we will find it easier to obtain positive loans, in Europe or in Europe, easier to get an investment as a member of the EU, in Europe we will be easier to go to foreign markets, but here we see that in Europe it is possible that the whole of the countries can say that they are bankrupt. Croatia is clearly not threatening this, but Croatia will not be seen through its fingers in 3.4 months. It all depends on whether Croatia succeeds in increasing its GDP or will continue to fall. Why am I saying that? Croatia is a small country, a beautiful country, we have resources that are large and I want to believe that we will use them. By the 1990s, many lived relatively well, many even better than some in the West, got apartments, built cottages, but the truth couldn't speak freely, freely perform. In the 1990s, some have taken advantage of the moment, and today we can talk is hard to get to work, let alone the social apartment. But today when we are where we are Europe can truly be hope. And as the prime minister said in this way, Croatia is rounding up its country. Right, there are those that at this point indeed many merchants, craftsmen, craftsmen, etc. They fear one competition, farmers also, dairyrs also, shipbuilders also, but I want to believe that there is a majority for the EU. Foreign Minister Mrs Pusic mentioned shipbuilding. And here it is indeed in these materials, just to find them, among other things says that the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia regarding the restructuring of the Croatian shipbuilding industry referred to in Article 36(1), etc. means entrepreneurs in the shipbuilding sector that need to be restructured are shipbuilding 3. May, Brodotrogir, Shipbuilding Industry Split, Brodosplit, Shipyard of Special Objects and Shipyard of Kraljevica and Entrepreneurs say no new support will be received for recovery or restructuring before the expiry of a period of at least 10 years from the date of signing of this contract. Another detail of these materials is interesting, let's say that this is the part where BiH is to pass through Croatian goods, shipments of products coming from the state area of the Republic of Croatia and are transported through the state area of BiH at Neum, Neumski Corridor, before re-entry to the state area of Croatia through the entry points Klek or Zlatan dol can be excluded from veterinary checks provided that the relevant requirements are met. And then it's all about what's supposed to be done here. I want to believe that these regimes will indeed be as mild as possible so that someone doesn't remember that without the Neum Bridge there is no integration of the north and south. All of this needs to be ratified. To believe that years ahead of us will be more successful. I want to believe that Europe can help us in all of this, but I am also aware that we will have to fight for everything on our own. Not Croatia from this stagnation of depression, no one from Europe gets away with it, but they can help us. All in all, yes, I believed in the EU in '90. and '91. I believe today, and I wouldn't want to be disappointed in Europe tomorrow. I want to believe that's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5359	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5360	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, members and members of the government. This is indeed a solemn moment and a great decision of the Croatian Parliament. But for us, the citizens' decision in the referendum was far greater because always before the Parliament, we will put the will of the citizens. And that's why I have to remind myself of what I said about this pay phone when the Parliament decided to call a referendum. I just have to remind myself that what happened was what we wanted to avoid anyway, and unfortunately it happened. We proposed, we appealed, that we give citizens more time, more information, to include citizens more in the decision-making process. No, that didn't work out. And there have been, I must say, more propaganda than involving citizens in this historic moment of deciding Croatia's EU integration. And not only that, before the referenda, citizens were also sent threatening messages. If we don't join the EU, there won't be a pension, there won't be one, there won't be one. That wasn't good. And there were very many citizens who had dilemmas, issues, doubts and who expected this dialogue. Instead, we filmed them with television videos where the political elite had determined that it was the only possible decision. And what is the result of such an approach? Unfortunately, only 47.5% of Croatian citizens went to the referendum. The country's citizens had only 42 days to decide, and after the referendum's decision, it took another 30 days for both the Constitution and the laws of this country to be created to ratify the international treaty. Everyone had more time than the citizens. And not to be forgotten, Croatian Labourists are legalists. The referendum's decision is legally valid, most citizens have circled that Croatia is going to the EU and, as legalists, respecting the citizens' will, we will also support this latest legislative framework that Croatia is leading to the EU. And will it really be Croatia's entry into the EU after today that is not just up to us. I remind you we're still on observation. And any member of the EU can use and/or postpone it or still disable it as a final act of decision. But one more thing, every EU member can ask Croatia for something else. Although it is said to recommend it, it has a nice and important expression. And because of such recommendations in the last 10 years, we gave up ADRIA and lost the South Stream of that energy pipeline for Croatia because it was such a recommendation. Due to these recommendations and directives, of course, we will sell and sell CROATIA OSERVATION because we do not have the money to capitalize it, we will sell Croatia's postal bank, and perhaps some more. We will certainly receive recommendations to, say for the needs of the Croatian military, buy a dozen fighter aircraft on loan, of course. And it's all about this unfortunate observation process. The process, however, can also be useful for Croatia, particularly in the area of continuing the fight against corruption, conflicts of interest and further judicial reform. And if this is a positive effect of the observation process, it will benefit us because we are still not credible enough in all these three areas. But sometimes we are small, we are weak, we are scared, and I wish that sometimes, but we may always have more self-respect for ourselves, for citizens and for our country, and so much we want in the EU, then it happens to us that we often get bumps than anyone who comes along, who passes by us, and there is no reason. I guess that's why no one in this country reacted when an ambassador recently taught lessons like the Labour Act in Croatia. The awareness of the benefits or damages or to use an expression that is more often used by the challenges that the EU brings to Croatia with citizens is still not enough. The growing social exclusion, the social decomposition is growing from day to day, unemployment is higher, citizens' purchasing power is falling, their duty is growing, and the executions are increasingly ruthless. And we are in front of a full liberalisation of the money market, goods, services and work. And that is why, Mr. Prime Minister, it is the new government's responsibility in these 15 months to prepare Croatia for the final step in EU accession as best as possible in our economy. In particular, due to the significant changes in the export conditions of CEFTA members to which we have so far placed 20%, i.e. 1.7 billion of our exports, and all shareholders warn that they themselves will not be able to find a replacement market or compensate for the loss of that market. Learn from the experiences of neighbouring countries. In each of them 4, 5 years after entry, a post-accession crisis followed. The investment boom that is announced and in these countries has brought temporary high growth, but it has also brought over-indebtedness. Next year, we're waiting for energy prices, especially electricity and gas for excise duties. Mr. President Milanovic, I hope that you have successfully completed the staffing phase within the executive authority. Now all of us, but also citizens of Croatia, expect the right moves to prepare Croatia for EU accession. In the economy above all, on the labour market above all, to restore production in large or small private or state-owned enterprises, however. And of course not blind and unspeakable obedience, and we must build and develop this self - respect for ourselves. We are also learning from those EU members who sometimes say no to decisions made in the EU. We are also learning from those EU members who do not make all decisions in governments and parliaments but also discuss referendums if they believe that citizens of their countries have something to say about it. And I hope that after this, our foreign policy will stop looking at one eye in Brussels, and the other in Washington, and we will spread our interests to another part of the globe. Mr Milanovic 15 months of time, 15 months of government responsibility, 15 months for real economic moves. 15 months of evidence that Croatia's entry into the EU was the only alternative. If that doesn't happen on July 1st 2013, I suggest we don't light fireworks and we don't open champagne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5361	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5362	I thank the honourable Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected foreign and European ministers, respected ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia, respected co-workers and co-workers, respected representatives and representatives of the diplomatic court and, of course, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. There have been many of these important dates indeed, and the minister has already mentioned them on our path to EU accession, and today it is certainly one of these important dates. But when, at this point in time, we are really looking at this process with one historical distance and the beginning of this process, it is actually clear to everyone that it begins and moves parallelly with the establishment of the Republic of Croatia with the independence of the Republic of Croatia because it was already clear to all reasonable and free-thinking people in this country that for Croatia the European Union is a solution both politically and socially and economically and that there is no real competition and that there is no such solution at all. Unfortunately, political circumstances have made Croatia one of the longest and most complicated processes of its kind since the accession process to the European Union. For a large part of these circumstances, we were not to blame and could not influence them, but no matter what the ceremony is today we will not lie to ourselves for a good part of these political circumstances we ourselves were to blame. One of the fundamental meanings of the state in general and the existence of the state is to ensure peace, stability and freedom for its citizens, unfortunately in Croatia our peace, our stability and our freedom had to choose bloodyly. But we are fortunate that here on the map of the world we are located in the most developed, most democratic, freest and most successful Earth globes created a union among themselves with the primary and basic goal of ensuring lasting peace, lasting stability and lasting freedom for their citizens. And we're confirming today the contract that we're entering into that union and today is a really good day and it feels really good. Because without peace, without stability and without freedom, there is no progress in any field of human activity, not in politics, not in the economy, not in education, not in anything we do, what we and our children would like to do. One of my colleagues told me that the contract we are talking about is a whole series of obligations for Croatia. Yeah. That's probably true. However, as in the development of us as humans, as well as the development of states, as we mature, as we grow older as we become adults and serious and of course our obligations and in our relations with other people or with other countries, our responsibilities become greater but that is precisely what it means that we have matured, that we have become serious and responsible people, in this case responsible and serious state. We in HNS believe and believe that the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union has really made us a better and more mature state and I will be even clearer we believe that this process has finally made the state of us. We are truly surrounded as a state by this process. Hundreds of laws have been passed in Croatia, reforms have been made in all systems, practices and procedures have changed established institutions and existing institutions have changed. Just as an example, I'm going to name a state judicial council, finally after more than 20 years of statehood, we've been given clear, visible criteria for selecting and promoting judges to which we've laid the foundation for establishing a fair, over-rule and real justice system. Some illusions have been brought down that we have been growing about ourselves, we have had to negotiate delays, meet European standards in water and air cleanliness, regardless of what years we have lived in the belief that we are breathing the cleanest air in the world and drink the cleanest water in the world, but the air and water coming to our citizens do not satisfy in one good part or European norms. Some of the reforms that we have had to undertake and which have taken up their epilogues will be obtained in Croatian courts, some recent gods will have to explain to their citizens why and how they have done huge damage to all of us under the auspices of the instability of the state. And no matter what the ceremony is, we're not gonna lie to each other too well that's the case. However, this too needs to be stressed over and over again, we have reached a political consensus on this issue. The political consensus of this kind in democracy is rare and I think it should be rare because the whole purpose of our existence here is that in the conflict of opinion and... to the best solutions for the citizens, but the fact that up to this one such fateful issue for the Republic of Croatia has managed to create and for years the consensus also tells me and us in HNS that we have matured as a state and that this process really had a good effect on Croatia, on our politics and on our society. In addition to peace, stability and freedom, by entering membership in the European Union, we open up to us of course huge opportunities for development and our economy, we enter the market of 500 million people, not just any people, 500 million of the richest, most educated people, alone the most developed and sophisticated consumer habits, and I have no doubt that we will quickly and very successfully convince them that Istrian and Dalmatian olive oils are each in their own way the best in the world and that there are very few things in the world that are better than the Slavonian tower, to give just two examples that are often mentioned in public. Billions of euros in the European Union funds available to us for development projects, much more than we have for development projects in our own budget, however, and not in any way, only with smartly designed, well-prepared projects at the initial stage and with careful and strict control of costs and deadlines in the realisation of these projects. But mostly we all talk together and talk about what the European Union brings us. It seems to me that perhaps a little too little and a little too rarely we are talking about what we are bringing and bringing into the European Union. I hope and believe that Croatia brings a proud and self-aware state, politics and a proud and self-aware people. I hope that very soon we will all understand that our place at the European table is as wide as our neighbor's place on the right and left. That we will understand that only the clarity of our views, the attractiveness of our ideas, the quality of our proposals, the strength of our beliefs, and the thoughtfulness of our political alliances depends on Croatia's position on the political map of Europe and the world. Croatia has much to offer Europe and the European Union and much to be proud of. In political terms, we are now becoming a factor of stability and bearer of stability throughout our region. The experience of European reforms and the perspective of membership for our neighbours really make us the leader at this point. Never, ever correct me if I'm wrong, Croatia has been in a situation where on an international stage, another country and a teacher are in the way it is now, the way it becomes by entering the European Union and the processes that preceded that entry. Unfortunately, in this our call it a dowry to the European Union, we bring a tragic experience of war and wartime, but also this painfully acquired knowledge that we really do not want to anyone in the world but unfortunately the daily people get it we can use in the process of stabilising the countries of the southern Mediterranean in which the European Union will surely have to play a stronger role as part of its foreign and security policy, and I am sure from our experience that our foreign policy will have a lot to say, much more than would be expected, given the size of the Republic of Croatia. And another thing we bring, which I think we must and should be proud of, is our Croatian language. In the year in which Croatia enters the EU, 170 will be completed since the first Croatian-language speech was held in this House, was held by Ivan Kukuljevic Saksinski, otherwise a member of the People's Party, just like me. However, as Croatia enters the Union and with the fact that the Croatian language becomes an official EU language we open the Union door to the region, because our language is not only understood in Croatia, our language is understood by people in all neighbouring countries. And we with the Croatian language, our language, are helping the EU to break down an important and large barrier, which is a language barrier towards its nearest neighborhood. Of course, the EU is not a guarantee of any success. In this we all agree and we have said it more than once, but it is certainly a framework and it opens the door to success more than any political economic project ever on the globe of the Earth. Croatian citizens have said more than 66% of this project that, five of our friendly countries have already ratified this contract, we are doing it today and we at the HNS are particularly happy about it. We are happy about this because of Croatian citizens and citizens because we really believe that there is no better political and economic solution than Croatia's entry into the EU. But we are also happy because from the very beginning of this process, not from these official dates, but really from those dates 20 years ago we have represented the idea of the EU and Croatia's entry into the EU and at times when it was not a matter of consensus, when this idea was not generally accepted and whatever the ceremony is, we will not lie to each other when it came out in this House when important things were voted out on that path. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected foreign and European ministers, respected ministers, respected representatives and representatives of the diplomatic court, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the HNS Club is pleased to accept this bill. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5363	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5364	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia. As my predecessors have said to us, this is a truly significant day. It is as significant as the end point of a job that lasted for years, as the minister said for 12 or 13 years, if not more and in which the generations of politicians, political parties and citizens of the country participated. For us, of course, this is not just the final point of one process, for us this is the point of a new beginning. Because by adopting this law today, we actually approach countries with which we will share the same values with all the differences that exist between us and become. We will share the same rules of conduct, of action, of organising us as an individual and of our societies, with all the differences that exist between us in economic, social, geographical and political terms and that will exist. So, from this point today, and especially from the point of agreement and all remaining EU members, the Republic of Croatia will no longer be responsible for itself and its citizens and according to its constitutional values and according to its laws, it will be responsible for EU values, according to EU rules and EU citizens. This will become an integral part of our common obligations. Those who move as a workforce, those who move as migrants, those who move as people in different needs, motives and reasons. It'll be in some sense our compatriots. And we still need to get ready for that job. We still don't have that experience. We have values and our own experience, we have rules, we have obligations, but we will have the necessity to build such an experience. I am deeply convinced that we who are here in the Croatian Parliament, that those who have conducted this process all these years as negotiators or as the first people in political parties or in governments either before, or before, that from their positions to a good extent, they will be privileged, given that most citizens could not experience, which most citizens could not know everything to do to transfer this experience and become the experience of the whole society. It is said here that we have come all the way to the Committee on Foreign Policy, which voted in favour of this bill on 6th of this month with a single voice abstention, it has been said that this time in the past 12, 13 years we have passed with a significant consensus between political actors on the Croatian political scene. Not always simple, not always without a dispute and not always without a dispute, but there was a consensus. The committee voiced confidence that the consensus will continue not only over the next year, but also continue within the EU frameworks. And there is no doubt that if we want to have it, and there is doubtless a need for it for countries such as Croatia, its size, its position, its experience that it will need to shape apart from the Parliament and within the Parliament the place where this consensus will be built. By the end of the negotiations, it was the National Committee, and after the end of the negotiations and after receiving membership, it will probably be necessary to look for some other mode of play that this consensus will be built in terms of double, in terms of control of procedures, control of decisions that our government, our government, will make in relation to the EU on the one hand and on the other hand a consensus in terms of responsibility to the expectations of our citizens, or our people. From the moment Croatia began its EU accession process, colleagues and colleagues have changed a lot not only in Croatia but also in the EU. Neither we are the same anymore, nor is the EU the same. Enthusiasm, the religion we started with 12 or 13 years ago, enthusiasm and faith that reigned within the EU 12, 13 years ago in terms of enlargement today are neither so strong nor so broad. But that doesn't need to sway us. It's something we can't, of course, overlook, that's something we have to take care of, but for what? Because of the fact that our entry, not because of our entry, but at a time when we become an EU member, Europe faces the need for its own transformation, the need not only for the enlargement process, not just for the process of internal consolidation in relations between countries, Europe faces the way society is organised, the way policies are conducted, the way in which the general public interest is managed. And we as a country will undoubtedly be in a position to think, above all our leading people in this case our government, but also we here in Parliament, how and how to respond to these European challenges. For us as a country will undoubtedly be of paramount importance to make up for those years in which we have lost more than we have received. It will be of paramount importance for us to make up for what we've been on the road in the last 20 years, and it won't be as simple as it looked 12 or 13 years ago. So it's going to take a lot of skills, like my predecessors used to say here, it's going to take a lot of skills, and it's going to take a lot of commitment. In other words, its membership is not simply a destination, and once it reaches that destination, everything is resolved. Today things look so that only when you arrive at that destination does work begin. And in that sense, we who here today should vote this Law on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, or the countries of the EU, this Treaty of Accession with full awareness of this fact, at least we of the SDSS will give our vote for such a position, such a role and such commitment of Croatia and its citizens in the EU. Thank you. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5365	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. MP and Croatian Parliament Vice-President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5366	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, members and members of the government, respected colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the diplomatic assembly. I warmly welcome you. Thank you very much for being with us today at this important and historic moment. This is after 3 months when I signed the Accession Treaty for Croatia's EU entry we are today discussing its ratification in the Croatian Parliament. So, in an important day, it is certainly a solemn day because rarest occasions are given to this generation of Croatian politicians and politicians to decide on such an important document and to decide Croatia's future in the EU. The fact that Croatia will become a proud member of the EU as it says in the contract that we ratify on July 1st 2013. Of course this is precisely because it is an important historical opportunity, which is a solemn moment is also the moment when the Croatian path to this moment and the Croatian road to EU accession should be remembered. So, I think this is the right time for ladies and gentlemen to remember the fact that for this moment, for Croatia to enter the EU, because first we had to become an independent, free, independent and democratic state, for an independent Croatia and certainly for the introduction of the multi-party in Croatia, the most deserved first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. And he should be remembered at this point. And especially in a special way Croatian defenders and members of the family of Croatian defenders who are the most responsible for freedom. I especially want to remember on behalf of HDZ all the Croatian defenders who gave their lives for freedom, but also their families, their fathers and mothers and their children. So, those who gave the greatest sacrifice for freedom and for the fact that we could start negotiations to join the EU and end negotiations and become a member of the EU tomorrow. So, I remember the Croatian defenders on behalf of all of you from Ilock, Vukovar to Dubrovnik. Ladies and gentlemen, today is about an important moment, but also about our message to the EU members. So, today once again after the referendum, we say that the EU, as the EU said 20 years ago, said then that the European Community – to Croatia – is free, independent, independent and democratic Croatia. The EU accession treaty is certainly one of the most important international agreements Croatia has concluded and it will really be a long time before any contract, or document that we will accept here in the Croatian Parliament, can be equated with the contract or with the document that we accept today. So I think we are indeed ladies and gentlemen one happy generation of Croatian politicians and politicians. Of course it took time from a referendum where just over 66% of citizens and citizens of voters of the Republic of Croatia gave theirs to enter Croatia into the European Union and we had to wait for all those deadlines that were necessary before the Constitutional Court to pass so that this referendum would indeed be declared in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore thank all the Member States of the European Union who, meanwhile, ratified the Croatian Accession Treaty. I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community has certainly been engaged until the last moment after the elections and for the success of the referendum, that we have made a significant contribution and I want to point out at this point because it is very and often speaking with the right of the Republic of Croatia to hold our rating at this point the fact that we have completed the negotiations but also that at the end of 2010, we have passed the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. And I want to point out that the Government of the Croatian Democratic Community has proposed. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few words about the role of the government of the Croatian Democratic Community, which I led for 2 and a half last year, when the most difficult part of the biggest job has been completed to complete the negotiations and become a member of the European Union. It was ladies and gentlemen of the hard way but the government I led was aware that this ultimate important and historic goal could only be achieved if at least three important conditions were met. So, maintaining internal political stability, contrary to many and frequent attempts to destabilise the government I led, by taking bold and lasting reforms in all areas, so also to combat corruption, the fight against crime but certainly related to empowering the economy, in particular through Chapter 8, but certainly all others, in particular, stressing those related to agriculture. And certainly with political courage in resolving open issues with the members of the European Union, I am certainly stressing the example of Slovenia. Addressing open issues and resolving the issue when I talk about the Republic of Slovenia, which was open until then for 18 years, was unresolved, so the border issue that we managed to resolve and then unblock the negotiations. Of course, among the unfavourable conditions that followed the work of the Government that I led was the fact that there was no special mood in the European Union, among the members of the European Union at that time, so I am talking about mid-2009 because it was already in force a severe crisis that affected the whole world, the European Union, many members of the European Union and Croatia. Normally, members were busy with their problems but also with the fact that the Union was shaken by the crisis following negative referendums on the Constitutional Treaty in France and the Netherlands. Of course, it was normal for many to be busy with themselves and not with Croatia, and we had to make additional efforts to freeze the negotiations and to bring the negotiations to an end. Certainly, the financial and economic crisis that has been tumbling with Croatia has been a difficult factor in all the affairs that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has had to do in order to complete the negotiations. I will return for a moment to the deblockations of the negotiations, the fact that, at that time, my colleague, Pablo and I have invested a little bit more and more personal political courage, so I thank first of all my colleagues and colleagues in the then government but also then the ruling coalition, and all the members and members of the ruling coalition at that time who did not exist in spite of many efforts that the government, at the moment we were able to unblock the negotiations, fell, remember in 2010 remember the 2011 protest, remember, as we announced, in April last year when most of them said that we would not finish the negotiations, when many asked to discuss the elections, and to stop the course of the negotiation process, and that the government did not end the negotiations until the end of June. So in April last year only a little over a year ago, no one or almost anyone in the political life of the Republic of Croatia except us who ran the government believed that the negotiations would end by the end of June last year. And that is why I am proud to point out that in the whole process, it should have been somewhat sometimes or often much more than the usual and everyday courage. Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this because of this, of course, it is very important that around this common goal of joining the European Union we all agree here or most of the people gathered here but should not forget the recent past and nieces and today the ruling coalition on the arbitration agreement, and today we hear in Croatia a political scene from some colleagues from the ruling coalition, who, for example, speak of the President of the Club of European Publishers to Mr Dol as some gentleman from Brussels, and obviously do not know that it is the President of the Club of Representatives of the strongest political family in the European Parliament and certainly in the European Union. Of course, every day we need to correct what is not good, we need to correct mistakes every day, and therefore I think we have the right to warn the Government today, because we are under monitoring, since we have to do a lot of hard work, that they are not good decisions on the repolitisation of public companies, boards, boards of directors, but also wrong steps in our opinion about public contractors warned by some European Commission experts. In that sense, we will give full support to all the brave and determined moves of the government because I remind you that we were the ones who brought, proposed, the Law on fiscal responsibility for which today's ruling coalition here in the Croatian Parliament, as you know, did not want to give its vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with the Republic of Slovenia gave Croatia additional credibility to all members of the Union and was an incentive to continue reforms strongly in key chapters such as agriculture, competition, justice and fundamental rights. The accession treaty therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, unites our multi-annual joint efforts to implement European reforms. I also remind you of this occasion that we have passed more than 550 laws, a thousand 400 sublegal acts, but I also remind you here in 2010 that we have donated as a sign and as an extremely important message but a real and real sign that we will support our neighbours on their Euro-Atlantic path, so we have donated the translation of the acquis. And once again with the latest developments related to neighbouring Republic of Serbia showing how much we could watch and how we could watch, I am talking about the then government forward to the future when together with the Republic of Slovenia, so Prime Minister Pahor and I started the so-called. It's a hilly process. We only donated the translation of the acquis, we said that we wanted to give support and we encouraged as you know and the declaration that was brought to the Croatian Parliament on support for our neighbours so the countries of Southeast Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done a good job, as has been said many times, of the budget put before the Republic of Croatia in the first year of membership, so the next year for the other 6 months is 800m euros, and in the first year of membership there are approximately 3.5 billion euros, so on each euro invested from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia 3 euros from European funds, if we know how to use them, I am convinced that we will. And everything we have done, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, we have done with confidence that we are doing a useful job for the future of the country, for the future of Croatia, for all our citizens and citizens, because Europe in the globalised world for Croatia represents an optimal framework for political stability, economic prosperity and social inclusion. So HDZ will vote in favour of this law, vote and give its support in ratification. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, we will say that once again Croatia is returning home, the Croatian language is becoming the 24 official language of the EU and we are going back or wherever we belong. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5367	Thank you very much. The notice, it's time to sign up for discussion. We still have three representatives of the club, so we'll end with a possible final address from the government's representatives. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5368	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, honourable ladies and gentlemen of ministers, respected representatives of the diplomatic assembly, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Ante Starcevic wrote in 1867 "From the history of power is the most secure learning. She paints life in her no dreams, and in 1871 she wrote something else, "For if you don't know people and peoples from her, what's history?" In the end, I'm going to say why I quoted these words at the beginning of this debate Dr. Ante Starčević. The referendum on EU accession took place on 22 January 2012 according to the official results of the DIP, Croatia's citizens voted for Croatia's entry into the EU with 66.27% for and 33.13% against. The result is this which really confirms the principle of democracy and decision-making on every country's fate issues, as well as our independent, independent Republic. But what remains here is a questionnaire that is not only not needed but cannot be silenced. This is the fact that the referendum came up with 43.51% of voters, therefore less than most of the total voters representing a 50% plus one vote, and this unfortunately leaves a certain shadow over the other condition of democratic decision-making of a country that implies making decisions directly or indirectly to most of its citizens. At the end of last year, after the change of power in the Republic of Croatia, when a referendum on Croatia's accession to the EU as a club of representatives was decided, we demanded a non-speed with the date of the referendum, but by giving a reasonable period of 6 months and at least 3 months in which all Croatian citizens would gain insight into all relevant information on which they could really vote fully democratically, with the criteria of freedom of information and freedom of expression, which consist of two of the seven most important criteria or principles of adoption in the right sense of democratic decisions. This proposal has not been accepted by either the new government or by the then ruling HDZ. I'll say it's not accepted now, unfortunately. However, the decision made by Croatian citizens on 22 January of this year is legal and is of historical importance for the Republic of Croatia. However, in Croatian history, the questionnaire on the expression of truly the majority will of the Croatian People's Beings on such a fateful decision will remain on what a decision to join a state association is in this case. And responsibility for this eternal questionnaire will remain with that previous government of the Republic of Croatia before 4 December 2011 to the HDZ government but also to the new SDP or Kukurik government of the Republic of Croatia. In the HDSSB, however, we are convinced that the decision of Croatian citizens and that the referendum was held not on 22 January but after three or six months in the end would be the same as this one, perhaps not with such a percentage for but we are convinced with a total majority for. Let's still turn to this bill of law that's ahead of us. Not wanting to return to many of the issues that many Croatian citizens have been torturing before the referendum on what Croatia's EU entry brings to all of us, they cannot and cannot address some of the issues that are being imposed on themselves when it comes to what we find in this bill or rather in a document that is actually a contract for Croatia's EU accession. Whenever we decide on any bill, we must be guided by the senses of responsibility that we have for ourselves as Parliamentarians, but above all towards the Croatian citizens who are here in the Croatian Parliament. And we must never allow it to be just those who will unspeakably raise their hands without even knowing what we are raising those hands for. And before us today is a document of over 250 pages of text and so many other pages of various tables. A document that also contains some findings that at least raise questions in themselves and require answers. Issues relating to how much Croatia will have in mind its size and population will be able to influence decision-making in the EU. We've been asking a lot of questions about this and getting answers from them. It is clear that with our less than 4.5 million inhabitants in the association we are entering, which accounts for over 500 million people, we will make less than 1% of the population, and thus have such an impact on decisions and developments in the EU. What I would talk about today and ask for answers not only on behalf of us representatives of the HDSSB but also on behalf of all Croatian citizens, but also on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, how much will it cost by accepting this Treaty of Accession? There have been a lot of talk about money, here in these discussions, especially given the undisputed fact that the Republic of Croatia, but also the entire EU, is in a major economic crisis and that neither with us nor in the vast majority of EU members, are running honey and milk or blooming roses. And that is why it is of immense importance to seek answers to the questions that Croatia gets, in financial terms, by joining the EU, and which it may be losing. Some of these issues arise from the text of this Treaty of Accession which is ahead of us, but may also be imposed because of statements by some of the top officials of today's Government of the Republic of Croatia, which at least cause confusion, and then perhaps concern. From a number of questions from that area, I'm going to single out some of them on this occasion. How long have we been successful in withdrawing funds from European funds? How ready are we for a period ahead of us in terms of using the EU Structural and Cohesion Funds? What's the real so-called. The membership fee that the Republic of Croatia will pay in the EU, and what are the total funds available to us by joining the EU? Let's take it in a row. A few months ago, today's foreign and European affairs minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, presented the issue that very few funds were withdrawn from the EU funds, saying once at only 5.9%. On the other hand, the former government said that we used significantly higher funds sometimes with a number of as many as 98% of the resources available to us. What's the truth? 5.9 or 98%? What we in the HDSSB certainly know is the fact that, for example, The regional development agency Slavonia and Baranja for the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County through 211 approved projects from EU funds withdrew a total of 93 million 209 thousand 429,03 euros. It is incomprehensible that in the 21st century, in the era of computers and the Internet, we are unable to bring together projects co-financed by EU funds not only in response to the question of how successful we were in this phase before joining EU membership but also as an indicator of whether and what we were possibly wrong to correct these mistakes in time for the period when we soon become a full member of the EU. That is why I am giving an initiative to create a clear browser for the use of EU funds in the entire Republic of Croatia so far. Secondly, today, when the Republic of Croatia is located at the very front door of the EU, it is clear that we will also have considerable resources from the Structural and Cohesion Funds on paper. But the question arises: Are we and how ready we are to use these funds? Do we know today, a year before we join the EU, with which projects we will apply and which funds? Do we know which projects we will send to the EU in the first run? How much will be our co-financing of these same projects because we know that the EU very rarely gives 100% of the amount needed for projects. Where these projects will be co-financed, knowing that municipalities, cities and counties, thanks to the extremely high fiscal centralisation of our country, do not have enough financial capacity to produce these projects, and that all documents, and in particular they do not have the means to co-finance these major infrastructure projects. Have we done not everything but do anything to be affected by the fate of Romania that has withdrawn far less funds than it has invested in the EU budget? Can we see and already know what projects we're going to apply to structural and cohesion funds? Is there a database of mature projects somewhere to apply to structural and cohesion funds? If there is no time when it will be made and by what criteria will it be complex? Third, when it comes to the so-called. The membership rate is several times in the media, but also in statements received from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, and today, by Ms. Foreign and European Affairs, it is stated that for the period of July-December 2013, the Republic of Croatia will pay EUR 267.7 million in total in total, while it could, in the same period, withdraw 687.5 million in euros. more than 5 billion kuna. These figures on membership fee in 2013 are, at the very least, a confusion because in the projection of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia that we recently adopted, and the 2013 projection says that I will quote: "the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget in 2013 is 1.6 billion kuna, i.e. around 213 million euros", not 267.7. Why and why this difference? But it is not the only but not the biggest illogicality when it comes to our EU membership. In 2014 we could hear really contradictory statements from the Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Slavko Linić. According to his statement a week ago, the Republic of Croatia should pay 9 billion kuna membership fees in 2014. However, the 2014 National Budget of the Republic of Croatia says that only 3.5 billion kunas will need to be allocated for EU membership in that year. Media representatives were interested in how Minister Linic's difference of as much as 5.5 billion kuna was made, and no clear response was received to an inquiry sent to the Ministry of Finance. They received a response from the projected payment of the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget, ranging from around 1% of GDP to the Republic of Croatia. And according to the financial framework published by the European Commission, the estimated Croatian payments to the EU's common budget for 2013 are 267.7m euros. Of these, 9.5% refers to traditional own funds, customs duties and taxes on sugar, while 13.6% are VAT-based and 76.8% are GDP-based, according to the Ministry of Finance. The amount of membership fee for 2014 argues that the Ministry of Finance cannot be explicitly determined, given that at EU level it is still discussing the financial framework for the period from 2014 to 2020. That's the truth. The budget has not been made for the period from 2014 to 2020. So what we now know is that when we enter the period on 1 July 2013, we will have to pay EUR 267.7 million for that period by the end of 2013, not 213,3 as much as is foreseen in our budget. And the annual payment looks like it won't be at around 600m euros a year. 4.5 billion kunas as often as has been mentioned during the EU accession negotiations. And of the 3.5 billion kuna it says in the 2014 State Budget projection, we'd better not even talk. If this statement is correct, Mr Linic's finance minister could be even twice the amount of nine, not 4.5 billion kuna. I hope this isn't gonna happen after all. These questions deserve answers. If this is not true, we also need representatives, but we need to make it clear to the entire Croatian public to remove any doubt and concern. But if so, this same Croatian public needs to be explained why one is written, the other is done and the third is signed. Because in this case, the question arises whether and how much more resources will be available to us at all than we will need to invest in the European Union budget. And not to stress the need for us to be able to use this surplus of resources for the development of the Republic of Croatia and the well-being of all Croatian citizens, we will have to be not only smart but extremely well-organised in order to be able to withdraw more than 100% of the resources that we will have available. Because if we're not smart and organized, we could go as the Romanians already mentioned, and given the economic situation we're in right now, that would be a disaster. I sincerely hope that such a black scenario will not happen, but it does not depend on the European Union but on us. And that is why I repeat once again that there must be urgent answers to questions about who will provide money on co-financing, because here there is no more talk about the IPA programme and projects up to a million euros where the problem was secured and 15%, there is talk of projects of a total value of 100 million euros, so 15 or 20% is no more than 150 thousand euros but from 15 to 20 million euros. Where'd that come from in municipalities, cities and counties? Finally, here are a few questions about finance that arise from this proposal for a law on Croatia's accession to the European Union, which is today ahead of us. The answer deserves to be asked what the provision of Article 27 in Chapter 3 of the Financial Provision, which states that from the date of accession of Croatia, it shall pay the next amount corresponding to its capital to be paid in the written capital as set out in Article 4. The Statute of the European Investment Bank that we should pay 42 million 720 thousand euros in cash. What about the provisions of Article 28 of this Treaty, which says that we will need to pay 494 thousand euros in the coal and steel research fund, also in cash. There are questions to which they also deserve answers, and I will only ask one more why it reads in Appendix 3 under the freedom to provide services for Slovenia that the evidence of completed colleges will be worth all the documents issued before 25 June 91, and for Croatia it will be worth the documents issued before 8 October 1991. Nationality Day in Croatia is June 25th and not October 8th 1991. We in the HDSSB have been emphasising earlier, and we will again reiterate that we are a regional, national, democratic and pro-European party, and that is why it is clear that we are satisfied with the results of the referendum. The HDSSB Club will support this bill by respecting the fact that in Slavonia and Baranja, in all 5 Slavonian Baranja counties of 788 thousand 584 eligible voters, there were 338 thousand 540 or 42.93%, and 233 thousand 150 or 68.87% voted in favour of Croatia's entry into the European Union. And in the end, I come back to begin with, and I repeat the words of Dr. Ante Starčević "From the history of power it is most safe to learn. It is life and history, for what history if you don't know people and peoples from it." Because as Croatian ban Josip Jelačić said, "we can consider every nation's history as a baptism of his list, without it the people do not know what it was or where it belongs." And we know what happened and where we belong. Good luck to you, our Croatia wherever you are in and out of the European Union, because the country of Croatia is one and only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5369	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5370	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister with ministers, respected representatives of the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the Confirmation of an agreement between Croatia and the member states of the European Union that is before us today, and I believe that by consensus we will ratify it is certainly a civilizational achievement not only of Croatian governments but primarily of Croatian citizens who have chosen to live in the European community. We have talked here many times about the advantages of Croatia's entry into the Union, and it is right to talk about possible dangers sometimes, but I am sure this is a bright example of the situation in which we show our responsibility and political maturity to citizens and the state. It is pointless to say that Croatia has always belonged to Europe, we all know that. The fact is that for the past 20 years in this country the laws have not been implemented properly, the fact is that the citizens of this country have rightly lost confidence in the ruling structures, but if we seek the greatest positive continuity in the work of all governments so far I believe that we should agree that it was only unfortunately a wish and intention to join Europe. I have already discussed the advantages we see as a political party in this act, especially given the problems of the population that we represent here, which makes up an increasing number of Croatian citizens. Therefore, I would just like to briefly remind myself of the key benefits associated with the pension, health and social system and the general rights of citizens. Unfortunately, pensioners will now enjoy less than other citizens the fruits of their decision, which they have shown in a large number in the referendum. However, their special responsibility is in the fact that they have had the privilege of choosing for their descendants, which they will not have to do if they leave Croatia in search of work as their parents, grandparents did in a limited number, crossing the state line. As far as the pension system is concerned, there is no single European pension system. There are long-term pension systems of which we have what to do, there are more successful and less successful but surely through pension systems we must also consider the measures that some countries have implemented on the labour market in order to maximise employment. The responsibility for our pension system is and will be ours and ours alone, as we make it, so we will have it. As for the extension of the working age for those who are about to retire, more and more are known and said, we will work longer because this is also the way it is done in the European Union, and I believe that the average life span of our population will be closer to that in the more developed countries of the European Union. Now it is not yet so and the life expectancy in Croatia is 76.3 years, and for men 72.9 and 73 years, respectively, and they want 79.6 years. The figure in developed countries is several years higher, for example in Spain, France, Italy and Sweden, an average 80-year experience for men and 85-years for women is expected. It is known that by accepting European standards, Croatia had to extend its working life to its workers, but it will also not happen overnight, so that equalising the retirement of women with men in the 65th year of life will take place until 2030, three months a year as negotiated during the process of harmonising the position and what is being carried out. One of the EU's special advantages, with regard to close concern for older citizens as well, is social policy. The European legislation aims to create equal opportunities for all, including the prohibition of discrimination on any basis, which, of course, includes the age-based basis of so-called ‘the European Parliament’. Ageism. Special attention is also paid to lifelong learning as regards all age groups, and European funds encourage the expansion of the social services network for elderly people and people with disabilities who are expected to have a large number among pensioners. When it comes to lifelong learning that has started to be mentioned in us only in recent years, which in Europe and the world involves education until the most mature age, it is important to say that Croatian citizens will be able to have the exact same conditions at all universities as all other citizens. And whether it's about studying or perfecting what it means and possible requalification. There is also the process of inclusion that requires us to include all the structures of society in all social processes and to work on it intensively. Significant benefits for pensioners related to Croatia's entry into the Union lie in the protection of consumers' interests as well as in controlling the achievement of health policy objectives. The regulation and supervision of consumer protection will allow for a higher level of product safety, better health protection and a general improvement in quality of life. This should reduce the cost of treating diseases caused by the use of insecure products that we often read about in the media and which are mostly due to the fact that it is usually cheap products of suspicious quality and origin precisely because of the poor property situation that is exposed to pensioners. Of particular interest to Croatian pensioners and to regulate the availability of medicines on the Croatian market. It should be pointed out that the transitional period of 4 years since accession to the Union is ensured for the placing of finished medicinal products on the market under European rules for medicinal products registered in Croatia. As a representative of HSU, who is in the interest of his own interests, except for the past, has current work, I would also say a few words about the changes that bring into this context the accession of the great European community. This primarily refers to the freedom of movement of workers and the right to employment as well as to stay during employment in another EU member state. For migrant workers and members of their families, which is extremely important, this includes, with the rest, the area of full social security. So health insurance, pension insurance, unemployment insurance and family tax rights. This practical language means that Croatian citizens will be able to freely work in the Union countries without special authorisation or work permits except in those countries that decide to maintain existing restrictions, which in the worst case can be done at 7 years. It is important that even then the Croatian State retains the right to apply equal restrictions to workers from other countries, i.e. the state that has maintained the restriction. A worker who moves to another country after joining the EU will have all the labour and social rights and tax benefits that other citizens of the country have during their working relationship there. Croatian citizens need to know that EU social policy is seeking to achieve a high employment rate, as well as safe and sustainable revenues. This means, among other things, that workers' rights in cases of collective surpluses, bankruptcy and transfer of business, as well as labour safety and health protection rights are strictly defined and protected. If we are talking about the inflow of labour from third countries, which has scared us of Eurosceptics lately, it is important to know that the system of labour permits that we now have will remain in force so that the inflow of labour will be fully regulated as before and kept under control. In view of the specific role of HSU in the Croatian Parliament, I focused only on those topics that are of paramount importance for pensioners and workers. I believe we're on a difficult but good path. I believe that we will participate as a country in the transformation of the EU in the future. The EU is not something that is static but something that is static but something that is alive and dynamic, and that transformation of the EU goes from the financial Union and the Union of People, towards the social union and the Union of Citizens. Yes, colleagues and colleagues are a challenge worth our efforts. And therefore, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, I call on this High House to ratify this important document and join the countries that have already done so. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5371	Thank you very much. And finally on behalf of the National Minority Club, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The National Minority Representatives Club is pleased with the outcome of the referendum, we are pleased with the fact that citizens of Croatia, Croats and members of national minorities have found the strength to give their consent to Croatia's entry into the European Association of States at the moment which is probably the hardest of its draft. We want to underline the fact that entering the EU is not only an economic act, but an act of belonging to a civilization circle. We are finally starting and truly and fully belonging to that European family that we have always claimed to be our family and to belong to. But unfortunately, if you noticed we mostly only talked, while others have put us out of it so far. That period now finally ceases to exist. Our students, for example. who live outside and who feel the most that extra communarians as they call them will no longer be and will be able to have those rights that have been denied to them so far. And that's just one of many examples, but which of course we in Istria and Rijeka feel a lot because it's about our young people going to study in nearby countries, for example. in Italy. They know that being extracommunaitaire means being a stranger and they know it even though a lot connects them with that country and if they are considered part of the country's culture. But unfortunately, others don't think so. This repeats that model I was talking about before we said that we always belong to Europe, but others only partially share that opinion. They share it declaratively, but not really. We should be proud to join the EU. Maybe after a while, no one's gonna have that kind of honor. Although we believe that this process will end, at least as far as the South of Europe is concerned, only when all the countries of the former Yugoslavia will become an equal European country. And here I will repeat something that has already been said by our club in one of the previous discussions where for us Bosniaks, Serbs, Albanians, Montenegrins, Macedonians and members of other national minorities whose home countries are not EU members, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU means the opening of European doors and for countries from which we originate, or for countries in the region. Both BiH and Serbia and other countries in the region see their future in the EU. And our entry into the EU would certainly simplify the resolution of open issues within the region, as would bring positive effects for all the peoples and citizens living in these areas. In addition, our entry into the EU is confident to speed up the entry of other countries in the region, which is not only the interest of members of national minorities as a diaspora of those countries in the Republic of Croatia but also the interest of a large number of Croats living in BiH, Serbia and other countries in the region, and thus the interest of the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia, members of the Roma national minority who do not have their home country work with us in the Parliament. We also believe that the problem of the Roma minority, which is very specific in both our and European spaces, will be easier to resolve in the EU frameworks. Not only that, but we will contribute and address the problem in other EU countries because we have probably solved it better than some other EU countries have. National minorities remind me that despite the ratifications, I would say at the lightning speed that follows one another in parliaments we were in the Italian Parliament a few weeks ago and where it ended within two weeks just something that it normally takes a very long time in the Italian Parliament otherwise very quickly ratified both Croatian Houses into the EU. Despite these ratifications, there are still some open questions. We will not repeat them here, it concerns, of course, the judiciary, the investment climate and corruption, of course, but also the status of national minorities. This is the area, the area of national minorities has long been monitored and it remains part of it today, but we believe that we need to speed up this process and that we need most of these problems solved by the actual entry means by 1 July 2013. Or at least give a outline of how they will be solved because it is not the first time that they happened here.Here I will use a euphemism problem related to ethnicity and religiousity – conflicts of course. It's not the first time that's happened here and every time we conclude and promise it'll be the last time. So far, this last time has not yet been seen, but EU accession gives us one additional guarantee that this will never happen again in the future. Because we are entering an association where Europe has chosen for the first time, it has chosen a democratic path. You know, Europe was old, it was also at Napoleon, it was also at Austria, at the Austrian monarchy, and it was also at Hitler and Hitler's thinking of some kind of a radical Europe, but it's the first time that it's democratic and based on human rights. Maybe this will affect, hopefully this will affect both of us here and that what happened in the '90s will really be the last time that happened here. Of course, it's not just up to us, it's up to us. We needed that guarantee, and that's why it's extra value. And finally we recognize another one, and finally we want to underline and paraphrasise once again what Kennedy said a long time ago and wonders once again what we can give Europe, and not constantly what Europe can give, can do or not do for us. We, apart from the general phrases that we bring to Europe the most beautiful seas, the most beautiful islands, the most beautiful coast, we have some other things that we bring to Europe and that will need to be an example and value for Europe. Because we are worth as much as we carry, not as much as we ask, because Europe is also a place where you enter not on the basis of love but on the basis of reciprocity. As much as you give and we get. And let's ask ourselves, other than the general phrases about what nature has given us, what else can we give? We can give a lot. We can also give the experience of our workers who are unjustly unemployed today, but for whom always and everywhere in Europe and today entrepreneurs who are coming to invest, it is unfortunately too little here, but who are coming to invest with us say that these are workers who have great experience and great knowledge, they are unfairly unemployed. Let's hope they have at least a better chance of hiring by entering Europe. The crisis in Europe will not last indefinitely. That we will experience in many of the rights achieved in the previous country that are now developing in the area of minorities, in the area of gender equality we do not remember here when there was no right to divorce or the right to e.g. Many European countries have no such experience on abortion. We have much more experience in minority and women's rights than most European countries have and as far as women's employment is concerned, we remember when the whole family was employed, let's hope it will continue. And don't be surprised at what's unusual. Don't be surprised if our collective memory of the working participation we had in the past and which we called working self-government if it won't become a source of interest again, when it will realize that the financial capital has actually reached one point that has no more return. Don't be surprised if we won't be looking for our experience in working participation and let's say what was going on, which wasn't worth it and what could be worth in that experiment. That's the first time I've said it, but it would be good to remember that it was worth it. And finally one message to the other European Union countries, the family to which we now approach the ambassadors present here. You convey to your governments that they have received much from Croatia in the European Union and that is why we expect it to be valued and we expect appropriate results when we ask for a certain degree of reciprocity. We give a lot and expect much from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5373	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, its President, Honored Mr Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5374	Dear MPs and MPs at the end thank you to all who have contributed and these are many and will be recognized, all you have said is no sense to supplement that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-09-0.u5375	I'm closing the debate and noon is coming up. We're going to vote, they're going to vote by raising their hands. You know why? Just in case. You know that in one Parliament, it has happened that there is no adequate will, I don't think we can afford it, we will vote first on the final draft of the law and then on one conclusion that is an accompanying phenomenon and necessary. Let's first determine the quorum. Please determine the quorum. Thank you very much. 136 of us are in the hall, 136 of us are MPs. I am voting on the final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Great Britain and the United Kingdom of Ireland/Member States of the European Union/and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in the text as proposed by the applicant. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hands. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find the law passed unanimously with 136 votes in favour. [[Applause.]] Secondly, in accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the Proposer, a revision of this Act, in particular of their annexes before their publication in the National Journal. I'm asking you to put your hands up for it. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that we have reached this conclusion unanimously with 136 votes. I thank my colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament for their participation in today's debate and for the unanimous confirmation of the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the European Union. I believe that today's decision has made it even stronger for us to ensure a safe and better future for all our citizens. Better life, security, and prosperity is what we all strive for and what is at the very heart of our decision today. I thank the members of the diplomatic assembly for attending today's debate, and for the countries representing support and assistance they have provided to Croatia all these years. I particularly thank the Member States of the European Union which have already ratified the pre-accession treaty in their national parliaments. For today, we end work, continue on Wednesday 14 March at 9:30 p.m., with the agenda Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2010. Goodbye and thank you all. We move to the first item of the agenda, which is - Annual report on the Agency's work on the protection of competition for 2010. This report was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency in accordance with Article 34. The Law on the Protection of Competition, you entered the proposal into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee, you received a report at the session. Does the representative of the Competition Protection Agency want to further explain the proposal? He does. Ms. Olgica Spevec, President of the Competition Protection Council. Here you go.
