ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21487	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. We will discuss - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, First Reading, PZ No. 192 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Ensuring your children the best start for the future is the goal of the European Union. To ensure you a good start this day, I hope that we will be discussing this law because it is indeed in order to ensure a better future for our children in the Republic of Croatia. What do you say? Since 1997, early preschool education in the Republic of Croatia has been arranged as part of a system of education and education, i.e. it is the first level of the education system of the Republic of Croatia, and each child has the right to participate in early preschool education programmes from 6 months to the start of primary school, which is usually between 6.5 to 7 years old, and society must provide him with the conditions and opportunities for education and education from the earliest age. The aim of the European Union is for all children 3 years of age to go to school to be included in early preschool education, i.e. at least 95%. Therefore, if we want to be part of the European Union, that should be our goal as well. Early education and education is considered an education that precedes compulsory education, which refers to education in the broadest sense and exceeds what some call preschool education because it is a legitimate type of education that does not only aim to prepare children for school but also to live in the same way as all parts of the education system that contribute to this process. We can practically say that lifelong learning begins in a manger. The Republic of Croatia, as well as the countries of the European Union, advocates a holistic, humanistic development approach to early education and education and a programme designed to respond to the educational, development, food, health and individual needs of the child. Such a plan and programme should be flexible and put a child at the heart of learning and development by estimating all types of activities that contribute to mental, psychomotor, cognitive, social and effective development. Early education and higher quality education create a basis for lifelong learning. Children are actively learning from birth, and the first year is already extremely important. The law on preschool education and education was passed in '97. In 2007, amendments and additions were due to the harmonisation of provisions with European legislation, and these are now other amendments and additions. Certain provisions of that law have not yet clearly defined certain problems and, following the gathering of information from kindergartens, the local self-government unit has identified the need for a more precise definition of those provisions. For this reason, the Ministry decided to make these changes and additions in order to create conditions for better quality childcare work in kindergartens with a particular emphasis on adapting and harmonising qualifications and levels of education in kindergartens according to the education system in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the harmonisation of certain provisions with newly adopted documents governing pre-school education and education. With these changes and additions, we want first of all to determine the public powers of kindergarten, to give clearer guidance to units of local and regional (regional) self-government in their obligation to bring a network of kindergartens into their areas, to introduce provisions on the national curricula for pre-school education and kindergarten, to prescribe the obligation of pre-school programmes for all children in a year prior to their primary school, especially for children who have so far not been included in any form of early and pre-school education, to extend the possibility of granting consent to other legal persons for the implementation of shorter programmes, to playroom for pre-school children under the same conditions as for kindergartenes, therefore spatial, material, human condition. To determine the qualifications and levels of education of educational and other children's kindergarten workers according to the education system in the Republic of Croatia, highlighted in particular which persons cannot start a working relationship in kindergarten and determine the infringement provisions for kindergartens and the responsible person in kindergarten for failure to work. The Ministry held a public debate on the draft of this law from 24 August to 10 September and subsequently requested the expert opinion of 13 state bodies, ministries, governmental offices of legislation, trade unions, Economic and Social Council, the Ombudsman for children and persons with disabilities, to bring the draft into line. The draft passed the procedure of the Government, committees, Board of Education of the Croatian Parliament. In this first reading truly as a minister, I expect distinguished MPs and MPs your contribution to an even better arrangement of early and preschool education so that after the final text is adopted, they have an extremely quality text that will really allow every child in Croatia to get a chance for the best start. All a few data for the end. In total, 40044 children aged 6 years were included in some preschool education programme in 2012, 2013. 26993 children are included in regular children's kindergarten programme in 5 and 10 hours, and 13051 children are included in preschool programmes for 250 hours a year. After the law is passed, the first and second readings will follow the adoption of certain implementing acts concerning the resolution of all those issues which will allow for better quality work with children in early and preschool education and education, with certain dilemmas and fears that exist in the leaders of local self-government units not founded since 2013, it will certainly be necessary to increase the number of children who, according to the assessment of each order... which has not yet been included in any form of pre-school education, and only then in 2014 may those funds be slightly higher but will be secured in the national budget for 2014 in line with the investments that the ministry has so far had in the question of children who were involved in pre-school, and that they were not previously included in any pre-school programmes. So far, it's been on the side of the ministry 20 kuna per child every month. Of course, if the number of hours increases, the ministry will increase its share in co-financing of pre-school education in local self-government units in line with that increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21489	Thank you. We have two replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. So I think it's crucial in this law that what you said in the last few sentences, but then in the bill of law, an evaluation of the sources of the means to implement this law, you have to specify it. You can't say that law enforcement doesn't insist on additional funds. She insists on additional funding from local self-government units. However, you know well that the Law on the financing of local self-government units defines how many people in income tax are assigned to local self-government units for certain decentralised functions. We in this way to the units of local self-government, no matter who's saying it's some kind of small means we impose an extra burden and it's not true that it's such a small asset. In winter, you have to warm up those rooms and a series of other things. Therefore, without agreement with local self-government units, units of local self-government are imposed a certain burden. And Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I don't think we, as parliamentary representatives, can afford one of these kind of flat-rate evaluations to have someone write to us that we don't need to provide additional resources in the state budget to implement this law. If you haven't decentralised the funds of Mr. Minister in accordance with the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, then you have to secure them in the state budget. You can't pass a law for which you don't have the means. Therefore, local self-government units at the moment are either making budgets or being finished or closing. They're going in next year without the insurance money for this. What do you mean you made a commitment if you didn't provide them with the funds, you didn't allow them to reach the funds? The same story is that you wouldn't think it is, it's a transfer of the possibility of issuing a building permit to 30 major cities. See what happens in the 2012 budget. Local self-government units are not provided with funds, so they too have to pay employees to issue a building permit. Therefore, it cannot stand in the Bill's proposal that additional resources are not needed, additional resources are simply needed, and you cannot impose an obligation on local self-government units without prior agreement with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21491	Second replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21492	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna get on a fellow Shucker. I'm going to ask something like that. Minister, you've put all this on the table. There's an old saying that says how much music money. This is where we listen to music that sounds nice. Now tell us who's gonna pay for this? Who will pay for such a proposal to amend and supplement laws directly concerning units of local self-government knowing that we already have on the table today and the National Budget for 2013 in which the Ministry of Education has 230 million kuna less than it did this year. You'll be remembered as the minister who took the teachers and teachers two salaries in a year, the value of two salaries in a year, and in the following year I say you already have 230 million kunas less, so my question to you is who will pay this to the ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21493	This replica corresponds to the respected minister, there from the scene. This line is covered by the respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So Minister Jovanovic did not take any of the teachers out of his pocket, and the budget for next year provided absolutely enough funding for all the programmes the ministry will implement. As far as pre-school financing is concerned, there is absolutely no need for additional funding in relation to what has been secured in the State budget for 2013 and funding as it has gone partly from the budget of local self-government units, part of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports will be sufficient for programmes in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21495	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Chairman of the Committee, Honored Valter Boljunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21496	Good morning, Honorable Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Ministers, Honorable MPs and MPs. Our Committee has considered the above-mentioned Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education not to repeat the introductory part relating to the views made by the minister, we only state the conclusion. In the debate, the members of the Committee support most of the votes mentioned above primarily for the reason that its adoption will improve the pre-school education and education system of the children of the early and pre-school age. The introduction of compulsory preschools is considered extremely important not only in learning procedures, but also in child adaptation procedures to the school system, which will greatly affect their socialization. However, the opinion of individual members of the Committee and the interested participants of the session that those amendments were premature and should have followed the adoption of the strategy. They also believe that Article 11(6) is reviewed so as not to be the same in coalition with the Labour Law. After the debate, with 7 votes in favour, 3 abstentions, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly to adopt the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pre-school Education and Education, and so that all proposals, objections and opinions are presented in the work of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies to the proposer in drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21497	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. We'll go clubbing first. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Dunja Spoljar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21498	Thank you, Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Most parents who, by their natural and social function, are the first and most important breeders of their children put a lot of effort into their psychophysical development and education to become honest people and citizens and to achieve the desired results. Raising their own children is no longer just a private matter of father and mother but also an extremely important social obligation, but a family as important as it is not all-powerful, it is just one of the factors in the formation of personality. Besides family, man’s design is influenced by the whole social life. This is how raising is done daily under very complex living conditions under the influence of various, controlled and uncontrolled factors. The impact is a lot, some are good, and some are bad. What each other's building can decompose. Therefore, the positive results are difficult to achieve. In order to adapt the child to the demands of the school, or the demands of society, the harmony of the educational influences is needed in a timely manner. Going to the first grade of elementary school is one of the most important or even breaking moments in the life of each child, a certain burden, and also a task with which the child has been struggling for many years. It is precisely because of this fact that it is very important to properly assess all aspects of the child’s maturity for school and first prepare it for school. It is common for us to see first - grade students on September 1st who go to their first school visits trained in reading and writing. But they can't tie shoes, they can't recognize their personal stuff, they can't stand not being first and only, they don't eat anything that's green or maybe red, they have signs of carpal syndrome, they have needs, they don't recognize the needs of others and different and they don't have real friends. The job of teachers and first - grade teachers is not easy. Ensuring optimal levels of school entry and this attention, observation skills, concentration, confidence, working habits and cultural-hygienic habits. A parent, or family, is a child’s first teacher, but what a child learns at school will be upgraded by the abilities and skills that a child brings not only from a parent home but also from organized preschool education programs. Going to school is an exciting step only for a child who is ready for school. Defining the child’s preparation for school is very complex because the combination of physical, mental, emotional and social preparation. Professional teams that create preschool programs and water know that each child is a person to himself with unique stronger or weaker sides, needs and attitudes and that not all children are at the same stage of development at the same time and at the same level. At school, the child will be exposed to a system of evaluation, evaluation, criticism and commendation and will need to know in an appropriate way to accept success and failure and deal with the feelings that follow them. It's a preschool assignment we're talking about today that the child realizes that adults are the ones who make the rules sometimes. To be ready to communicate with other children and adults, to be ready to respond appropriately to conflict situations and persons, to fight for respect for your own needs, in a socially acceptable way to express your emotions and to be able to recognize the importance of a situation and to adapt to the intensity of an emotional reaction. It is a very important social preparation for champion students, especially those who were not students of kindergarten because they are now expected to be separated daily from their families, to dress and dress themselves, to care for themselves, to be independent and to develop school competence. The child will meet new children and adults at school. Children often work in groups at school, which means they have to wait their turn, share things and cooperate. By interacting with other children and adults outside their family, children learn to listen to others, respond to demands, and learn about their needs. School adjustment periods do not require children only, very often parents. Experienced watching is very difficult in the first school meetings to determine who is more ready for school, or unprepared – parent or child. Parents are full of worries and fears for their children. So there are those who fear that the child will not be safe enough at school, that the child will escape to the stake, that he will fall, physically get hurt, be hungry or thirsty but most fear for the child’s success, that is, the possibility of adapting to the new way of life and the requirements he puts before the child. The preparation for school doesn't come by itself or come overnight. It is the result of the different factors that are particularly important for the preschool programme, the school adjustment programme. In Croatia, there are now about 800 children who are not included in preschool education in the year before school. No kindergarten, no preschool. This bill will make it mandatory to start a preschool program in the year before they go to primary school, building security and satisfaction for a year and making it more clear that they will be happy and that these major changes in their lives will not be stressful. In addition to compulsory preschool, this proposal brings some more amendments and additions, which are not less important. In order to ensure that children are included in a pre-school education programme, the obligation to publish competitions in the daily press in order to establish working relationship with educators and professional associates, to prescribe the obligation to engage in pre-school education and education activities which determine the legal interest of the child, parent or guardians of the rule of law, to apply the provisions of the rule of law of law in the rule of law of law of law in the context of the rule of law relating to the rule of law of law of law of the child in which children are required to comply with the conditions laid down in the law of the child's childcare system. He proposes that fines be prescribed for offences that will be punished by kindergarten or the responsible person in kindergarten. And finally, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, do you have any dilemmas about whether the changes that this proposal brings should be accepted? And I believe you don't. Consider that between 800 children whose parents will be obliged to bring their children into preschool by these changes. Twenty percent of them 160 are those with less or greater developmental difficulties, which the expert team will detect, define and provide assistance and support. Of these, 23 are those whose speech difficulties will be overcome in that year. Among them is 800 8 gifted who will be able to encourage a year earlier or a year longer. Among them, 800 to two children have major health problems that preschool educational workers will recognize and send for diagnosis and treatment. 8 are those who find it difficult to use Croatian literary language and feel comfortable communicating only in native speech or mother tongue that is not Croatian, but will learn enough in those years. One child has been abused and will be subject to shorter delivery for one year due to application under the Protocol in the Educational Institute. Ten children are socially abandoned and will first play real toys or on a computer in preschool. Five of them are kind of hungry, they'll be fed. Two will learn to use the toilet by school, five will learn to wash their hands before eating, and everyone will literally make friends and friends, play by learning and learning to play. What can't be learned on the Internet or on books or on the course, everyone will love their aunt or teacher who will become part of a child's growing up and who will probably achieve the preparation of each child for school in the preparation period before going to the first class of love and consistency. That is why the SDP's representative club will also accept the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21499	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. First respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Spoljar, everything you said theoretically why you should introduce preschool education stands, however, I fully support you. The only thing that matters is you didn't say who would pay for it. I wonder if you will support this in the adoption of the national budget for 2013 with these amendments and the addition of the budget for this year. My colleague Špoljar in the areas of special state care from which I come is asked about the survival of kindergartens. Croatian Mayor Kostajnica made a decision on closing kindergartens. Do you know why? Because no one works, no one can pay for kindergarten, people live on welfare, the only company doing that is Pounje. And imagine the largest number of women right now working at that company. They can't base the standard of kindergarten. I give them credit to aunts in kindergarten so the kids call them miles away, and I'll call them this time, work without pay for months, no transportation, pay for transportation. Last year, the state needed the finance ministry to jump in with 700 thousand kuna in order for the regular activity of kindergartens to take place. And inside that, the preschool, but for those kids who signed up freely. I support the introduction of preschool education, but let's not change the law with one sentence. We're introducing preschool education required for everyone, so let's also provide material conditions for that. I'd be glad to hear it from you in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21501	The replica corresponds to the respected Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21502	Thank you very much. I have indeed recognized in your replica the full support of what I said and I hope that both Marco and Wesna and Ivan and Štefica and Joseph, who will start preschool this fall, will also recognize.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21503	Mrs. Rocksandic, I'd like to ask you nicely if you don't throw it out of the bench. Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21504	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I have to do to replicate to my esteemed colleague, the Spolar. I'll read article 66. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia "Employment in the Republic of Croatia is available under equal conditions according to its abilities. Obligatory education is free of charge under the law." It's an article of the Constitution. Now, if we know that in preschool education at age 6, 90% of our children attend the whole day or the shorter kindergarten program, 90% of the children pay for that kindergarten, can you separate me now how you're going to solve the issue of preschool and free schooling i.e. education without compensation to those who have to finance it. That's what we're talking about, gentlemen, and it's not easy and it's been a desire to introduce compulsory education in high schools, and it's been thinking about this segment, but it's always a question of who's going to pay for it. So I ask this question to you, and you please answer me, and that is in line with what it says in this basic document of this Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21505	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed representative of the Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21506	Thank you very much. So I didn't fully understand whether it was a question of anyone paying for kindergarten or who would pay for preschool but like this. Inside kindergarten if you thought that parents who pay kindergarten would be in a different situation than those who don't pay for preschool, so within kindergarten the preparation program for school is free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21507	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, a respected representative of Vishny Fortuna will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21508	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The aim of the adoption of this legislative proposal is to improve the system of pre-school education and education and to coordinate with European documents related to the education and education of children of early and pre-school age. I would like to stress here that a public debate has been held, so clear guidelines have been given after which a network of institutions will be adopted at local level which I am very pleased with. It is also consistent with the text of the draft with all relevant institutions and institutions dealing with preschool education, or children, which I really commend. Furthermore, I would say that the task of preschool education is to develop knowledge and skills skills in children and students who will help them grow up to be creative training and responsible and active inclusion in modern society. In order to meet these tasks, it is necessary to improve access to quality education services in the education system and to raise awareness of educational content and methods. I would especially like to point out here that everything that starts from the earliest youth, which is from kindergarten and preschool, is good grounds for tomorrow's quality person, or quality of our citizen tomorrow. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2011-2015 programme therefore sets out mandatory one-year pre-school education. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law are proposed to prescribe mandatory preschool schedules for all children a year before I go to primary school where I agree with a colleague who said she thinks there is no one here who could say that this is not good, positive, important and necessary. However, preschool programmes are created in kindergartens with a regular programme and in the pedagogical year 2013/2014. They'll be mandatory. We estimate that problems in the implementation of the preschool programme in reality will create a lack of space and professional staff, regardless of what it is according to the Ministry's assessment that it will be from the existing programme, but we estimate that it will still create some additional problems. This further means that although the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports recommended, in its development plan, the creation of spatial, human and material conditions for the inclusion of all children in preschool education programmes, and in particular in the programme of preparation for school, preschools, kindergartens, chronic and now lacking spaces and professional staff, which, in accordance with permanent, professional training, can provide quality education for our preschool children. I will now provide an example of a kindergarten, taking into account the fact that the preschool programme will be implemented as well as so far within the regular programme for children, users of services institutions, which in the last 5 years average were about 800 in this example of this kindergarten. Therefore, for children not covered by the regular preschool education programme, it was spent on about 75 children who went to preschool now, although there were 120 requests but there were not enough places, or three educational groups were. We estimate that in the next year there will also be about 120 preschool programme applicants who are not covered by the regular preschool education programme. The programme should be conducted in five educational groups at five locations within five centres of preschool education, requiring the employment of five breeders according to estimates as we got from the field, half the time. The program can be implemented after 15 hours after regular program. The pre-school programme must be implemented for 550 hours, i.e. three hours a day within 183 working days, which would mean that the programme starts on 1 October 2013 and ends on 20 June 2014. So these five breeders, if there were five, would work in one pedagogical year for 10 months, and since they are exercising their right to an annual vacation. I've just mentioned this here as purely as thinking, trusting the Minister to provide the necessary resources, but just as thinking now before we pass this law, thinking really about 2013 that it actually has to be done. Amendments and additions to Article 25, current Article 11. The proposal is proposed to prescribe a ban on childcare in kindergartens and persons who are criminally punished for criminal acts of domestic violence as well as for persons who have been banned from work or who have stopped working for illegal or unprofessional treatment against the harm of the rights and interests of children. Because of the exceptional sensitivity of working with children, it is good that the criteria for employment in kindergartens are strengthened. Also, because of the clarity of avoiding possible misreading, it is desirable to specify precisely the crimes for which the perpetrators will be sentenced to the sentence of prison as an obstacle to establishing a working relationship in kindergartens. Articles 34 and 35 of the current law refer to management in kindergartens, i.e. the board of directors. Since they are now not defined the level of necessary education that members of the Governing Council should have, as is the case for members of the Board of Directors in schools, we have to keep in mind that this draft law prescribes the necessary level of education that members of the Governing Council must have so as not to become a person who is not able to participate in the work of the Administrative Council in a quality way. Important in the work of the Governing Council, the important decisions made by this council seek to strengthen the role of preschool education as best possible to meet the child's development needs, and its introduction into the world of conscious learning, i.e. preparing children to go to school. Since the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law is also in breach of Article 35 of the current Article 13 of the proposal, we propose to supplement the new sentence in order to ensure that the level of education required by all members of the Governing Councils is prescribed. We hope that, after the adoption of this law, the deadline provided for will be adopted and instructions on its implementation so that preschool institutions can prepare themselves in time for the quality implementation of the preschool programme. Therefore, from this above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Pensions Party will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21509	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected representative Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21510	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow Fortun. I don't know if you learned in high school the logic of the premise sylogism conclusion. So the Constitution tells you and the minister won't even mention it, I've had a lot of negative experience with him, even though we haven't had a direct match. So we have a constitutional category that says, the Constitution says basic education is free. We are now introducing new content into this constitutional category, giving it another year. So, all the cost that comes from this year's preschool education must be free, ma'am, fellow Members of Parliament, and that's not. It means that parents should be free of payments that year in any way. ... So this is what parents pay for, and you claim that this will be in accordance with the Constitution, that this will be free of charge. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Intruder Stazic: Microphone turn on.]] This is an anti-constitutional matter. We can't agree to that. We're all for this. Let's agree on what means we'll pay for it. The Croatian state must ensure that it adopts new law and the same conditions of law enforcement throughout Croatia's territory. If that's not what I'm doing here, there's something wrong with us. And don't tell us fairy tales, we're already old, even if I feel like it. And I do, we talk about kids, but we're serious people. What the minister said, said, talked in the end, says we'll sort it out somehow, it won't cost anything. It's a fairy tale at fairy tale level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21511	The replica matches the esteemed Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21512	My dear colleague, I would not agree with you here. I think that we are all here repeating the MPs sure that this proposal is necessary, that is, this proposal to amend and supplement the law very much necessary for our children so that they can prepare as best possible for basic schooling. That's one thing. And secondly, it happens, it will be conducted, not by, but by existing institutions of preschool education. So, in these existing institutions, it's just a matter of organising a competent ministry that this is also suggested to organise in a way that is as free as you say. And I believe that's how it's gonna be. But even in existing educational institutions now you know that we have some activities where parents pay. I don't think it's going to be an example here, and it's not going to be touched in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21513	Second replica, the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Fortun and you and your predecessor emphasized that it was necessary for children and that it was safe for their own good. Well, that's not what anyone was arguing about. Even I didn't hear my colleagues say anything against it. It's not that part or disputed, it's a controversial part of the funding, and no one can convince me it won't cost anything. My colleague, Roksandić, mentioned the case of children's kindergarten in Croatia, and believe me, such kindergartens will be more and more unfortunately and we can't look at it that way. But what I reported to you for the replica is the part that you pointed out that the conditions for employment in kindergartens have been tightened. I say they are, and that's good, but I suggest there might be another example, and these are people who are often punished for disturbing public order and peace, for violence that is not domestic violence. We can now have a case that someone has been beaten four times in the street, whether for this reason or the reason I won't mention it now, the judiciary in that story is not punished by a prison sentence and can work normally in kindergarten as a janitor. Today is not an impossible situation to beat up his parents in front of a child, because it is definitely a person who is prone to such behavior. So I suggest that maybe that part should still be expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21515	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21516	Thank you very much. Here's the last part I'm actually agreeing with you and it was in this part of my debate, and I'm repeating again for the funds. And now parents pay for kindergartens. Of course, they pay half the price of kindergartens or maybe less than half now they can't exactly, but by decentralised means, that difference is paid to say so, and that's at the level of the competent ministries. This includes, of course, local administration and self-government. I will just point out here that I am expecting and I am convinced that with local administrations this will work and still negotiate for additional funds, and additional funds, what parents are paying now I expect to pay even after this adoption of the proposal. ... I'm sorry, if you're talking like this, I can do it because I haven't sat down yet. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. That still means
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21517	Wait a minute, just a minute, Mrs. Fortuna. Dear colleague Marasovic, I will kindly ask you not to disturb the speakers in the work. Be so golden. Thank you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21518	So I'm going to point out, co-financing of local administration kindergartens and self-governments are and should be done, that's the first thing. And what's the point of asking me, I've been stressing so far that you should stay as boredom. Therefore, there will be no additional burden on parents, or on payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21519	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. To immediately clarify one dilemma at the very beginning, neither the HDZ Club is against the introduction of preschool education, i.e. compulsory so-called. "small schools" for children before primary school starts. But it's against a law written like this that absolutely doesn't define anything. I ask myself a question and allow myself to have the right to express my doubts, the minister said in the introduction that the bill was at a public hearing for two weeks imagine at the very summer stop when education has a regular summer break. I wonder how many people were able to see, read and comment on it during that period. According to what I have information from the educators, from primary schools people have rarely been involved in this debate. If we have now proposed a law at the end of November, why public debate between July and August, and only two weeks? That's the question I'm asking all of us. And that preschool education, as my predecessors have said, is a very important part of the education and education system that has been regulated since '97. and experienced short changes in 2007 in order to comply with rules on the establishment of kindergartens for foreign and physical persons who could not have established kindergartens until then, and since then, it is very important to highlight pre-school education is the activity they finance and provide conditions for the establishment of a local self-government unit. As each of the units of local self-government has developed pre-school education programmes over the past few years, the need for the adoption of state pedagogical standards that came into effect, I remind you in June 2008 to level the standards and conditions in kindergartens. Since 2004, important developments have been made in this area in order to achieve development goals in pre-school programmes. The aim was to increase the number of children enrolled in preschool programmes and include as many children as possible in kindergartens. Progress in this area is visible. If we only observe data from last year, almost 60% of children in Croatia are covered by the Preschool Education Programme through a 5-hour or 10-hour programme. 28% of children in Croatia attend some shorter programmes that take place in kindergartens, and a significant figure of why I point out this is precisely this topic today, a significant increase in the number of children is covered by the Preschool Programme so-called "Preschool". "small schools", a children's programme a year before school, which was even at 99.6% last year. Also in the document Development Plan for the Education and Education System from 2005 to 2010 the aim was to cover as many children as possible from the earliest age to the school age in pre-school programmes. According to data from last year's school year, 80% of children stay in kindergartens. In private, however, the largest number is in kindergartens that are the founders of the local self-government unit. At least in kindergartens, the founders of a religious association, but also 50 religious communities founded kindergartens. In 2005, the first Centres of Excellence for professional training of breeders and professional associates were also appointed. Today there are 14, which is very important for the development of this education. This is where ten thousand educators work, which is a pedagogogical, psychologist, educational rehabilitators, defecologists and logos. I won't repeat why. A colleague of the Spoljar said that very well why other than the raiser. Although the growing need for these professional associates is not being hired, and you know why? Because wages for them must be provided by units of local self-government which often do not already have their own replica, or basic means of maintenance of kindergartens. We can't measure what's happening in Zagreb, Pula, Split, Rijeka possibly Osijek and what's going on in Banovina that's happening in Slavonia on islands, we can't compare if all children don't grow up colleagues and colleagues in the same conditions. The proposed amendments and amendments to the laws relate to the changes that occurred over a period of 15 years from the adoption of this law and relate to part of the reform in the education of the amendments to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the acquisition of academic and professional names that are completely different from before the harmonisation of higher education under the Bologna Declaration. It was also necessary to comply with the legal provisions relating to the required level and type of education for differences in preschool activity. We also appreciate the change that the education and education programme must be brought into line with the entire system and that it must take place according to the national curricula that should be adopted one year after the adoption of this law. We're in the first reading of this law today, so I wonder if we'll have a national curricula next school year. Today, in kindergartens almost 70% of children attend a program of early learning of foreign languages, part of kindergartens and a religious education programme approved by parents in 295 kindergartens. Every kindergarten has an obligation to carry out day-to-day sports activities as well as special sports programs. The Olympic children's kindergarten festival, which is very popular, has grown out of these activities. And what happens now? Already in this budget rebalancing of colleagues and colleagues, who will be discussed soon completely naked, support for all such programmes has disappeared. What happens to the year when we already have a budget proposal far less for education than it was this year? I wonder what's going to happen, and we impose and make another commitment? At a time of economic crisis when some cannot provide even basic needs, material costs and salaries of employees, the question arises whether and when they will be able to provide funds for any kindergarten programmes? I draw particular attention to those areas of special state concern. I am an example of Croatia's Kostanica and kindergarten that can no longer survive. Such is a small children's kindergarten in the Iron and the Court. Do these children have the right to equal access to education as all other children are asked questions? However, I will return to the main newspaper of these amendments to the law relating to Article 8 which is added to the new article 15. I quote "From everything that is being realized and so far in kindergarten we have added one sentence. In kindergarten a preschool programme is implemented, which is mandatory for all children in the year before school." From the proposed I can't read whether all the children who are students of kindergarten or all the children living in the area of kindergarten are going to attend preschool. What about those little towns where there's no kindergarten where there's no school or field school? Will primary schools implement this programme and who will finance it? 0 We have only one article and that article, which states in Article 10. "that the jobs of preschool teachers in primary schools with the persons referred to in paragraph 4 of this article may be carried out by persons who fulfil the conditions for the performance of class-school teachers in accordance with specific rules" only. What's going to happen in that village or in a place where we don't have a field or elementary school? Who's gonna pay for the parents' ride to kindergarten? He doesn't understand. I repeat, will the school be attended by all the children who are students of kindergarten or all the children living in the area? The minister announced that mandatory preschool would be free of charge for these children who had never been to kindergarten before. That's almost as many colleagues and colleagues as many things we've started in education. It seems to me that this is once again what they say about a quick change of law to satisfy the form. In the light of this law, it is stated that the implementation of the law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. Once again and again, who's going to finance preschool? Parent, local community. This law does not wisely state it anywhere. According to our calculations, if we introduce a school commitment, compulsory education is free colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned it. Constitutional category, the state should take over the funding of these programmes. There are not half a billion kuna in the state budget provided for these added programmes. I'll tell you why I calculated half a billion kuna. The minister said in his performance about 40,000 children. The minimum monthly cost can be 1,000 kunas, not 20 kunas per month, so it is 240 kunas and colleagues per year per child. Yeah, in this program but not in this program that lasts them 550 hours a year. So 40 thousand minimum cost a thousand kuna times 12 months, just calculate how much money it is. It's in the state budget and in the proposal that's not in our boxes. So these changes will still cost the ministers. I repeat, we have no objection to the introduction of compulsory school but in a hurry. One sentence of change in the law without ensuring conditions and financial resources. Whether this law will be a burden to parents, to the local community, and the ministry will again take a major step forward and how to announce, extend compulsory education to 9 years. In one of your statements, you said to clarify one dilemma, this is neither a zero class nor a new first grade primary school, but it is part of a primary education that becomes a commitment and therefore it takes 550 hours, which is the entire school year, and in Croatia next year we have a 9-year school education. Does this mean that ministers give up compulsory education to the first qualification that has been supported by their colleague Lugaric when we stood for it together in the last term? I must remind you that the former government has launched a mandatory education extension process from 8 to 10 to 11 years old. The goal was second, the goal was to keep young people in the education system until the earliest 16 years i.e. to the possibility of employment. The process of amending the Constitution has been initiated, but this law clearly gives up such compulsory schooling. We suggest that ministers be quoted by second reading exactly who will implement the preschool programme, who will finance preschool. Moreover, the proposed amendments to the law before us in Article 16 are added to the chapter on the ban on promotion and sales in kindergartens. We believe that children's kindergartens should not be allowed to be promoted or sold or services of any kind or those related to education and education. Why, because such a provision will allow various agencies, foreign language schools, publishing houses, children's toys producers, didactic means, to put pressure on parents and children daily with their offers. That's what happens in elementary schools, so you shouldn't do it in kindergartens. In the end, I want to underline what is most important, but we did not provide the ministers with the necessary preschool funds, and what my colleagues in my club said, this sentence in the assessment of the situation that you stated for the implementation of this law is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget is not true. And that's why we support preschool, but we don't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21521	Thank you. There are 11 replicas reported to this exhibit. First respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21522	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I am again at mandatory preschool. In the text of the law in the justification, the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period 2011-2015 provides that all children in the 6th year of life will be required to attend preschool programmes, so these amendments and additions to the laws are proposed to prescribe mandatory preschool schedules for all children a year before they leave for primary school. I'd like someone to find me an article in this law that's been prescribing mandatory preschool since I was 6. Well, that's all we have to do, so let's move on if it's written somewhere. So does anyone have a copy of the law that says, or do you, Mrs. Rocksandic, have a copy of the law that says that preschool is mandatory? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21523	Replication response, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21524	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, I have no such bill. I also said in my presentation that this law under the children’s kindergarten, preschool institution was introduced in Article 8, article 15, where a preschool programme was implemented in kindergarten, which is required for all children a year before going to primary school. It's all that, nothing else, nothing else. If we don't consider the reason for the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21525	Second replica, the respected representative of the Sun's Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Roksandić, you have apostrophe, says the promoter will be a free preschool education, i.e. preschool education. I ask if it means, he assures us that he will be free, that teachers, or raisers, will work for free because that means that they will not get paid for the work. Because if you don't need to provide additional funds, if you're told it won't have to be local self-government units who's going to pay them. Just for the record, and now in kindergartens, for example in the town of Čakovec parents every week with what they pay for and what the city co-finances must wear wipes, toilet paper, consumable material. So aunts, or kindergartenrs, simply beg their parents daily for help because kindergartens cannot function otherwise. It's a real condition. And another thing, the law predicts who can't be in a working relationship, or who can't start a working relationship in kindergarten because of a whole series of things, but I ask why the law doesn't say anything about those who are there in the board. For example, in the town of Čakovec, due to a reasonable suspicion of committing criminal acts of abuse of power in economic business, which Mr. Bajic, the administrative council still stands there, still working, there are no sanctions, there are no penalties, no doubt that they have been wronged about their work, i.e. established suspicions that they have been illegally working. So I'm asking what's up with the board of directors, if you could put that in the law, too. And the other thing, does this mean about the lecturer, or the people who are going to work with those children, does this mean that with one degree, teachers of classroom education can be both teachers and teachers of class classes, and that teachers cannot lead preschool. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21527	The replica corresponds to a respected colleague, Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21528	My colleague Glavak, this is exactly what I've been pointing out all along. We don't have anything either of you or I, and the whole HDZ club really doesn't mind preschooling, but it's against this sloppy law. This law has quite a lot of disadvantages that you've confirmed by your exposure. He doesn't have insurance funds, he doesn't say anything about who will provide material conditions for the implementation of this law. We can't believe what my colleague Fortuna said. I believe she'll make sure. I can't believe it because I don't see it in the budget for next year. If this will be another imposition to local self-government units, ask your colleagues and colleagues. Who will enroll children in kindergarten? We must not increase from the end of colleague Glavak from where I come from the price of kindergarten, because some kindergartens, I repeat some kindergartens are at the end of my survival. Children's kindergarten in Croatia Kostanica will be asked about children's kindergarten in the Iron, kindergarten in the Court, and kindergartens in Sisak. Did you know there's no waiting list this year? You know why? Because the whole economy is on its knees, which people can no longer pay for kindergarten, let alone extra programs. If we introduce a commitment programme, then we secure the funds, but we don't do it, let's write it in the law as well as this case with the Governing Councils. I said the law is flawed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21529	The next replica of Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Roksandić, well, here you are in this, in your presentation, but here and now you said, you also mentioned in this whole context family. Indeed, children get our first knowledge in the family and the family is in a very difficult situation today and cancels their children’s basic desires, which is learning foreign languages, sports and so on, because these are all wonderful programs to pay for. Well, you should have thought better about it in this Law, you should have seen whether it was free or not, and it should have been stressed, that it would be free, but we don't see those funds in the budget. But as you talk about municipalities of special state care, and you see the city of Zagreb co-workers for two years, two years cannot be agreed in the city of Zagreb the price of kindergarten, two years the children or parents give up everything to pay for their children's kindergarten, and they give up additionally to send them to some programs. Well, I'm interested in the promoter who wrote this bill, whether he wrote it just to write something in articles or really took care of that education, really took care of the family, and really took care of the children. We're all for kindergarten and we're all for preschool. They were once young schools and, of course, every parent is happy to enroll his child in kindergarten and that each one with a lot of joy will provide him with all the additional programs and so on. But in this economic situation, care was to be taken into account in the budget and to indicate the funds from which it would be paid, because it was not good to write something, and later it was no longer achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21531	Reply to the replica esteemed Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sumrak, so I said in my presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club precisely because it seems to me that this law was made in haste, that something is also done in the field of preschool education. We canceled the midterm in primary school, so now I hear a colleague says, "I don't need to study yet." I have until the end of the school year. We've done a lot of these kind of small procedures in education, colleagues and colleagues, and we don't have any good results. Only that result will be seen at the end of this school year. I am afraid that we are once again playing with education, with education in which everyone, colleagues and colleagues, swear that the most important thing is today in the Republic of Croatia. You said in one city Zagreb cannot agree, why I say one city Zagreb. Well, that's the largest part of the Republic of Croatia. So how's it gonna work out when 340,000 people are unemployed, if their kids have the right to kindergarten co-workers and colleagues? Where are they going to pay for the kindergarten? From the 1200 on average to the 1600 they get at the bureau, the 1600 we're telling them to go to that training. Will they give 500 kuna for kindergarten and let's bring this in for them. You say it for free, it'll be free because it'll pay for cities and municipalities. Some won't, I repeat, some won't be able to, some won't be able to sustain the cold drive we've brought cities and municipalities to, that is, what we've brought our economy to.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21533	Now it will be replicated by the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, Roksandić, has been reported since the three clubs debated that no one is content with preschool education, that this is something that is necessary. However, the key thing is who will pay for it, and in order to illustrate some things, let's not think that preschool education is a little bit out of the budget of local self-government units. It's on average between 21 and 27, 28%. And let's say for the decentralised functions of complete primary education, so these are all your basic school expenses except for your salaries, maybe six, seven percent. The ratio is almost 1:4. Here I am going to give you an example of a city that is not small and that is not fiscally bad at all. It's the town of Velika Gorica. For preschool age with all programmes, 58 million are allocated from the 230 and more budget, 240 million kuna, and 15 million kuna is allocated annually to decentralisation of basic education functions. Therefore, these are relevant data from the 2012 budget. Look, the boredom of preschool education what we're talking about that ninth year or what we're gonna call it was twice a week for two hours and it wasn't an obligation for all the kids. However, we now propose five times a week mandatory and claim that they do not need any money. So let's not be ridiculous people! You know what it means to just use certain spaces for 3 hours extra, for winter to heat and the price of electricity and all the energy went up, 37 and 20%. It's also 15 new hours of work. Look, you've got 70,000 people in one town a year about 150, 200 high school kids. Well, you can't put them in two classrooms. It's at least 6.7 groups, if you want to do with children what we're talking about, it means at least 6.7 people who will have 15 hours a day. And we're here Here, just one more sentence. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Here, I'm sorry. We here claim that no additional resources are needed and again at the summit of local self-government, which is quite burdensome, we place a new burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21535	The replica corresponds to the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Shuker, you set an example for a rich city. I'm an example from Sisak-Moslavina County and from the part that doesn't even have an economy, which I'm going to say a word that may not even be appropriate, lifers. But you've opened up another problem, a problem of decentralised functions. This year, 2012, from the state budget to help decentralised functions is less than 350 million kuna. We know in education that not only is education financed but also health care, social care, fire department, but in education do you know that in schools, here at the end of the year, there is not what we often say about chalk. People spend money, teachers wear paper, teachers wear color crayons from home. That's what happens in kindergartens. Every day your child goes to kindergarten in these areas where the local community cannot allocate so much funds and then brings you additional teaching equipment. I'm afraid so. Parents buy a variety of papers, crayons, or whatever it takes to keep from counting. And the question is again, you rightly said, who's going to pay for it? If you claim that this cannot be paid by one Great Gorica, which we know is a city that has a large budget, I wonder how they will pay in Slavonia, those in Dalmatia, those in Međimurje, and also in Istria that is rich, how they will pay on islands that really do not have the means to survive small municipalities and cities, let alone for such additional programmes if the state does not provide money in the state budget. And according to what we see today, she didn't keep it, she didn't secure it. Then at least in law, let's make sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21537	A respected representative, Marija Lugaric, welcomed her line for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21538	Dear Mrs. Rocksandic, first of all, about the public debate. The public debate lasted until September 10th precisely when the focus was on the start of the pedagogical year, and the public debate was conducted in accordance with the Law on the right to access information and at the time of the duration, but what is much more significant was published was the summary of the public debate carried out, so you can see on the Ministry's website who appeared in the debate and what was accepted and what was proposed both individuals and kindergartens and associations and trade unions and so on. So sometimes articles from the daily newspaper are not the best sources of information. Secondly, I'm surprised that in your discussion, you're acting like we're now introducing a preschool program. The preschool program has existed so far. Many things are not regulated by law I will remind you, I am sorry that you do not know or pretend that you do not know, that there is a state pedagogical standard for preschool education that has a whole chapter called – The establishment of preschool that solves standards, criteria, time, programs, conditions how, why, where. So there's a whole chapter that talks about what preschool is about. And finally, let me be perfectly clear with this law, we don't introduce preschool into our education system. There's a preschool and it's having fun. This law introduces only the obligation that all children who are not involved in one of the preschool programmes, whether it is a regular programme shorter or longer or in the current preschool, must go to that school. Compared to a generation of children who count about 40,000 children today, about 800 are not included. This obligation and addition and a new burden as you call it refers to 800 children throughout the Republic of Croatia. So it's not about the new program, the undefined program, something we don't know about. In fact, you voted for it in 2010 by adopting a pedagogical standard. And then sometimes it's not good to pretend that some things don't exist and that we're reintroducing them. All we're talking about here is introducing a mandatory preschool for those little 2% of kids who aren't involved so far. Everything else works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21539	The replica corresponds to the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, Lugaric, sometimes it's not good to demagoguely perform. All that I know very well, and I didn't get the news from the papers, I'm not the guy. I'm a good follower of education. And I warn of a public debate that was held, and of those who came to a public debate, because hundreds came to me after that public debate. Secondly, colleagues Lugarić do not deceive us and the public we are for preschool and preschool is nothing new, but colleagues twice a week are not the same as 550 hours for all and those who are in kindergarten and those who are not in kindergarten. So it's not the same cost. I've shown you what's going to happen. Fortune's colleagues are gone, she's calculated how many breeders or teachers will be required to implement it in the system. For example, I think 75 children. I'm sorry she's gone. So it's not true that the funds are secured and that's why we're rebelling. 20 kuna per student per month, 240 kuna for 550 hours a year, so what are we talking about? You know how that money was now won? Ask the kindergartens. I asked my classmates in kindergarten the other day, they sent us 50,000 kunas for a whole year if they didn't have any more. Well, if we have money or if we don't have money, we're going to have a constitutional category of compulsory preschool education. So what's it gonna be like for colleagues and colleagues? So let's talk about it. We're not against this. The difference is from 20 kuna to 2 hours per week and 550 hours per year. You and I who are in the education system know very well what 550 hours of education means.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21541	The number to which counterparts Roksandic are replicating is now being joined by Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21542	Dear colleagues, you're right. This law says no additional means will be necessary for the implementation of this law. I claim exactly the opposite. And one who wants to show or prove simply needs to take paper and pen and calculate not only on the example of 75 children. And there's no one against the preschool program, but it's practically a new year of education in this system where you no longer need just kindergarten breeders but it takes far more. And who's gonna pay for it? Obviously, the state budget does not but again units of local self-government through the insurance of conditions, and it should be noted that every suburban village does not have a regional school, so it may not even have a social home. Where will the preschool program take place? In a local birt. Who's gonna pay for the heat? Who's gonna pay the material costs? Who will eventually pay the employees who will implement the preschool programme? Obviously, we write laws without the fact that there are two Croatians. One rich and one poor. It is also visible in the real state of the Croatian regions in the purchasing power of the population. If it's mandatory for everyone who's going to pay preschool for the unemployed? Today is not 340 thousand, but on today there are 345 thousand and more and more every day. Once again, it goes to the budgets of the local self-government unit and we are not all Zagreb, Rijeka, we are not all rich and we do not have large budgets understand this Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21543	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic, you've best drawn it from the position of mayor of a small town. I appreciate that there is a middle - size city that has both kindergarten and a burden and education. But you said it right and I pointed it out in mine, we're not all the same in Croatia. We don't all live in equal conditions. You said there were already 345 thousand unemployed at this point, maybe while you and I were talking and more. And you said well we can't, we can't calculate that 550 hours isn't 70 hours a year, that it costs something, that if we introduce it as mandatory for all children as it says, for all children, then we can't change one sentence in the law and say preschool education is mandatory for all children in the Republic of Croatia, but we need to change our colleagues in this law and that article 60 and some in the current one that talks about funding, so say, the entire preschool education will be financed from the state budget, but that's why we need the responsibility of colleague Vinkovic, so you as mayor and all of our mayors and mayors will know that the state budget will provide those funds not 50,000 kuna for your kindergarten in Djakov for preschool because this year we only have 20 kuna per student, but what I've been saying maybe a thousand kuna so far. There's something else you've noticed, you've noticed that there's no elementary school or primary school in all places, let alone kindergarten. Who will bear the cost of a child's journey from mine I don't know any place not to list or your Slavon village possibly to Djakova or to the first district school If education is going to be organized there or if it's really going to come to a sense of what would be funny, that would be ridiculous. [[Intruder: Time.]] What kind of cooperative homes. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21545	Next replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21546	Dear colleagues, Roksandić, several times in your debate, you mentioned compulsory education that is free of charge. And colleagues before you talked about it. One colleague quoted article 66. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says "Limited education is free". When speaking in other constitutions, say in the American Constitution, the Constitution of the United States says the media are free behind that is the point. Behind this in the 66th article says "Limited education is free" but then says in accordance with the law. Tell me where there's free education? Education is not free in Croatia. Free education means when there are no other expenses, it's free, so when you're not paying anything. What parent does your child school for free? I would beg that answer first of all. That's a hoax. It's pure demagogy and even constitutional demagogy and it's not good. All the time, ministers have assured us now that the minister of education before that, the health minister has enough money for everyone. As someone said before, in kindergartens and schools there are no basic means needed to normally study children as in Croatian hospitals there are no toilet paper, no gloves for hygiene, no many things that should be, which HZZO should cover. Therefore, here today we will probably not get an answer to this question because already this constitutional provision that education is free of charge is guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21547	Replica reply, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Vuksic, you have opened this issue of free education in general education in Croatia as a constitutional category. According to the law, I will return and agree with you, there is no general free education in Croatia because then it means that the parent would not have to buy books or school supplies or anything, but mostly he did. When we reach that goal, I don't know. But this according to the law, here we are talking about introducing another obligation to education, and this law does not define it for free. I've been encouraging the promoter all along, the Ministry that it's not good what they've done in the amendments and additions, that this law only introduces a commitment for all preschool children, but it doesn't define who's going to bear those costs anywhere. And if we stick to this article of the Constitution, which in its closing sentence, as you said in accordance with the law, then the law should define it. This is how it is in an empty space so when we pass the law after the second reading if we don't fix it by colleagues and colleagues, then it will be left to units of local self-government one more burden on the back so it will be said that what is being funded is known. Yes, it also stands now in the law that the Ministry is funding preschool, but colleagues and colleagues are changing the preschool program not twice two hours a week but 550 hours, that's the whole school year, and that's a big difference. A great difference is also rightly the people who are the municipal chiefs and mayors of this fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21549	The opportunity to replicate is now being given a respected representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21550	Let's be exact for the Croatian public. By proposing this law, we don't introduce a zero class, we don't introduce 550 hours or every day of preschool. The proposal for this law where preschool education is regulated in its articles by a pedagogical standard adopted for the governments of yours in the Parliament, so we introduce that in 704 preschool groups currently existing in Croatia 808 children who have not attended school twice a week for three hours. As the pedagogical standard in Article 18 states, the preschool programme lasts for 250 hours and is conducted from 1 October to 31 May. So nothing changes except to force 808 parents who have never done so before to send their children to school. It takes 550 hours, but that's not what we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21551	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Spoljar, we're just being exact. You're not exact with such a proposal. You said we were going to force 808 children who were not included in any of your data by now. I'm saying it again, this is really going to increase the cost. It doesn't matter if the kids are going to be 2 times 3 hours a week, and that's already an increase or 3 times 3 hours a week, and that's possible if we agree so. We've brought pedagogical standards and we're proud of it because we've been trying to raise education to one higher level, so we all want to, I think we have a consensus here. We just want to provide funds for such an education, and you didn't see it coming in this law. That's the point, not whether we want to or not. I'd really like to, and I support that preschool decision, but I want to find out who's going to pay for it. I don't think we can be more exact than we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21553	The ninth replica and distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Roksandić, you said in your debate that all children are not in the same position, and should be. In that you compared larger centres and rural areas to say so. Of course there are problems in the larger centers, from that registration fever to get a place and prices, etc. But please, I know what the situation is in rural areas and I personally have witnessed for years the efforts of many Commissioners who make great efforts, they have made projects Penal Code to build a kindergarten and turn to various places, to the Ministry of Regional Development and to see how broad their hands are, they get 100,000 for the whole county. And one kindergarten costs 2 million, 2.5 million costs and now how to make it. And what about those environments that don't have that option? So parents will have to, say, take the kids to school three, four kilometers away, which costs money. He's got to get the kid ready, gear up, gear up. And if we add to that a catastrophic situation in the country because of the relationship to agriculture, it means what's going to happen. Many will not be able, not that they will not, but will not, will not simply be able to deliver their child. And as a result, there are sanctions. And now what should be the greatest joy we witness every year by enrolling children will come, there will be fear, there will be frustration. And here's one thing that really needs to be important and immeasurably important she might eventually become a simple nightmare in these rural areas of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21555	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21556	... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21557	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21558	I'm sorry, I did, but it looks like someone turned it off. They were brought here for exactly one reason, which is to try to level the system of education, so that a child in your village, in your rural environment, has the same conditions of education as children in the capital and all major or smaller cities, does not matter. However, indeed in this difficult financial situation when the economy is on its knees I would say it has gone down in a good way, when there are no new projects obviously no, we will end a year without major project announcements, without a major economic recovery. That's what we're seeing right now with the budget rebalance we've come up with, and I'm not even going to talk about the village. You're a great expert in the village, living with people in the country, and you know what kind of trouble that village is dealing with. I wonder the same thing, and that's why we've been pointing out all the time, that because of these equal conditions and because of the need to open up preschool, we need equal funding to provide the one in your... and the one in Zagreb and the one in Velika Gorica and the one in Sisak, in Sisak-Moslavina County, in Banovina where there is nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where I agree with you. And you've done well. What will parents who have to pay, do you know how much a bus ticket costs between Gline and Sisko, for example, from a village where there is no transportation? You know there are no lines from some villages, so parents will lead these kids, drive those kids. If we don't accidentally secure the terms of that, so-called. Little school we don't get close to the child, but then we'll get to what he said it seems to me like a colleague, Vinkovic, that we'll have to keep that education in To the cooperative homes, and we don't want that. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] That wouldn't be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21559	The next replica of the esteemed Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21560	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister, distinguished colleague Roksandić. Well, here I am, honestly invited and in the state of my kindergarten, to tell it to my network of kindergartens that I'm lucky I have to tell the next one. Look, not a single bag was emptied overnight, so neither did this one, you know. So, to be able to finance, that we could at all have decentralised funds that is one course and a process that should have been done so far. In Trogir there are 9 or so mangers and 7 kindergartens, we have preschool education 250 hours verified by the ministry from 1.3 to 31.5. We're working on pedagogical standards. It seems to me that we're going to have a bigger problem because of our own facilities because we're going to have to close half the kindergartens if we stick to it, so that's the standard, that kind of part, that kind of provision, and as far as financing is concerned. Look, the fact that everything that hasn't been solved over time through economic growth and development has always been paid by the people. The fact is, we haven't raised the cost of costing kindergarten in Trogir in a long time, for as long as I know. This is since I've been mayor there. On the other hand, it is still the same, and it will remain the same, but on the other hand, it will sooner give those funds to the local self-government unit, and on the other hand, we have found debt on children's kindergartens of a million and 800 to the state of taxes and contributions that are not paid on which interest is persistently paid. And what's going to end with that I don't know, anyway I know it's gonna pay, because it's got to be paid. But the fact is that it's one part that could have been invested in a different way than being left behind as a debt that kindergartens would have to pay. The birth rate in Trogir is 10.37%, and I'm talking about my unit of local self-government. I agree that you should look at the solidarity of others, absolutely. But the fact is that right now, at this point, we can do one extra part of it, and that's through half the working time of the raiser and the doctor's equipment. Thank you. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21561	Reply to the replica by Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You described the situation in your city, in a well-deserved city. We cannot forget that Trogir is not a city that primarily lives on tourism, which has a good income and I congratulate you on that. I congratulate you on funding this now. You said one sentence. We have to get back to solidarity. Not a colleague, we just need equal terms for everyone. We don't need that kind of solidarity to give to those who don't need it. We need equal conditions for all, and it is the state that must ensure equal conditions for everyone and for your Trogir and for the child in Croatia Kostanica, and obviously that, as proposed by this law, this will not be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21563	And last in a series of replicas, distinguished representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21564	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Roxandić, I fully agree with part of your discussion. We will also have in practice a good law against which we are clearly not here, but this law will not be enforceable in practice, because clearly there will be no money for it. Even now, when we talk about preschool education and pedagogical standards that should be respected in preschool education, we have a situation that we do not have the consistency of the number of children by departments and we do not have the age group in our departments because we cannot comply with pedagogical standards. On the other hand, it is an obligation to finance local self-government. They do not have the opportunity to build new kindergartens to ensure pedagogical standards. And I agree with all those who have spoken where the rural part of Croatia is ignored, and what will happen to these children? Will these children be in a completely different, worse position than the other children who are near kindergarten and who will be able to attend a small school? Clearly, if we say so, it will probably again be on the burden of citizens, if this law is respected that it can be implemented in practice and I do not know that with 350 thousand unemployed citizens, with 80,000 workers who do not receive salaries and a large number of workers who are on minimum wage and who cannot meet their basic needs to survive at all, let alone to ensure that this standard is even higher for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21565	And the final answer to the latest replica of counterpart Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21566	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think you in this last part of your replica have summed up everything. 345, maybe 346 thousand unemployed already, we're dragging our hands deeper and deeper into our citizens' broken pockets every day, and what do we have? One law you say is a good law, but inconclusive. Well, the laws are written so we can spend as much time as I know. That's why we need to fix them. We don't have anything against that law, we're just pointing out the failures that have been made, the failures that will lead to the full cost of this mandatory part of preschool falling on my parents' burden whether I want it or not. A parent will have to drive a child in preschool where there is no kindergarten. These 800 may be precisely why 800 are not covered by preschool boredom, which is impossible to bring a child to that kindergarten that is now preschooling. Because you need to know that 99.6% is already covered, but where the 4% is, that's probably the 4% I may not be able to do. Now we're making them that commitment. We do not provide funds to cities or municipalities for an increased programme, increased compared to now, a preschool programme but we do not provide parents with funds to bring these children. We leave in the law the possibility to place everything on the burden and back of cities, the municipalities of possibly some of the county that is through a public needs programme if it wants to or won't be involved in co-financing preschool education. Here, that's the point of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21567	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate now. I call on the respected Ivan Grubisic to state the views of the Independent Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21568	Mr. Vice President, ministers with a deputy, respected colleagues and colleagues. I am happy to take part in the debate on this very important subject, but I must stress immediately that it is complex, that it is complex and that we live in extremely turbulent times not only in our country's spaces but in our civilizational frameworks. And I'd like to, I'm glad that this is the first reading, and in the second reading of some of the things and suggestions that we've heard here, we're going to be able to define and get one not final law, but one open proposal of a law that would act because times are changing, and when times change, they're going to be economical, whether they're spiritual, whether they're secular, whether they're technologically successful, then they're going to have to keep this law open and accept what time brings with them. Another point I would point out is the material means of ensuring the functioning of the law that we are making, but even more important than whether we have competences in the broader sense of the words of the raisers of children. I pointed out in the early 1990s that we needed education from educators, those who would raise either as parents, or as teachers, or as teachers in mangers and kindergartens needed education. And about this education of educators it is clear that a broad and open debate is needed because we know how strange people are, so many ideologies, so many worlds, and it's hard to unite. But it is necessary to make an effort to reach some common ground and priorities. The socialization of a man, including a young man, is influenced by many factors, and these factors multiply. These factors seem to be going ahead of society's willingness to accept the changes and those of us, and changes, especially technological changes and exposure of children to new technologies, leaving us with great questions whether we can answer all of this successfully. We certainly cannot answer everything successfully, but I don’t think we have so much effort and use so much effort to answer these questions. In my opinion, it is important that I speak from life experience and my personal experience that children should be raised to work on themselves. I think that even here in the Parliament, at least that's how I feel about myself, that I haven't finished the process of my education because I stress that it doesn't last long but only while we're alive, while we're alive. And that is why a fundamental question should be raised in children to teach them to work on themselves not to close down newspapers and scientific achievements and especially a system of values. When it comes to a system of values in which a child should be placed to live, it cannot be learned but rather an example, then there is a great step and a great temptation for us who prepare the laws, which should be functional and effective. So work on itself assumes work on intellectual, working on moral, and working on a spiritual system of values, spiritually. Today we're in a situation where we're chasing concepts, and that's not good. I believe that Christianity is a spiritual movement and as such I have accepted it as my lifestyle and lifestyle. Religion is about customs, tradition, rituals. It should lead to spirituality, unfortunately does not lead, we have examples where raising in the family was absolutely Catholic, ecclesiastical, secular religious but these people or individuals did not endure the temptations that gave them life, gave them life and opportunity but failed to do so. That's why I'm a spiritual person for the atmosphere of a value system that needs to be propagated, and that's why we're all human beings. For me, every worldview if it's honest, if it's self-critical, if it's open to me is every worldview legitimate and legal and I respect it. But in the end, there are certain experts who say, there is an epidemic of lost deeper meaning of life, lost. Out of this mess of loss why a man lives, many problems are born. Is it possible for children to develop this feeling of deeper meaning of life? Is that why he lives to have everything and to meet all needs, or does he have to go through with Fromm and say that a sick society can be sick that he has everything, and then he loses himself has nothing. So how to develop this trend is the need of a man for a deeper meaning that is very important and very important, not to turn it into some indoctrination of any type but to be openness to seeking and working on itself, and yet I repeat it does not last long but as long as we live. Thank you for your patience, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21569	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21570	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr Grubisic, you have said that Christianity is a movement and you have previously said that your process of education and education is not yet complete, so I can understand you because Christianity is not a movement, Christianity is a religion from which everything that comes out of that concept can come out well. Sometimes in the name of that, you can do something bad, but Christianity is faith. I'm going to use this minute or a half of the line for another general review of today's debate. I honestly say that I am dissatisfied and unhappy with the degree of awareness of all of us MPs when we discuss such important issues. We act not according to time or moment but act according to what we go spending and who will pay is not our concern. Gentlemen, this law was one three or four days ago about local self-government where we now introduce 31 councilors in Split of 25 councilors. Here we introduce preschool education, we don't say who will pay for it, the state obviously won't, local self-government and cities won't have money and translated into Croatian says parent let pay, and parents are unemployed or unemployment is on the rise. And we can't pretend here as if it's none of our business, gentlemen. Are we the ones who make the laws, are we the ones invited to get this country out of crisis? Is it the government that needs to execute our policy? We need to cut the cost of the state, if I have to say yesterday I'm here among 150 of us to pass the law to be 100 in the Parliament, in Split instead of 25, 20 plenty. We can't introduce something we don't have money for, because then Mr. Linic will have to go. in London to bring that money [[We don't have any more time.]] How are we acting? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21571	The reply to the replica is esteemed Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21572	It says in the Bible that faith without action is dead. That's what St. Jacob, and Christianity I understand as a way of life, not only as a faith that can be just one theory but I have set an example for you Jesus tells you that this is how you live Christianity is the way of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21573	And a second replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21574	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I was just enjoying this brief philosophical discussion of yours. You've really touched a lot to talk about. Among other things, you also spoke of a family that is very nice and should be successfully answered to all the challenges, and you also spoke of a system of values. Well, I personally think, and I'm sure everyone here agrees with me that the family is trying to really, but really respond to all the challenges in this society, especially when it comes to their children. Then in this system of values they are at the highest level and will surely wish to ensure everything. And this preschool law that's here today before us, I thought you'd say something about it. Of course, you've been talking about education from the beginning so life-long that in the end some people know they haven't done a lot of smart things in their lives and that maybe we should start over. But you see the problem is family. When he moves, when the family is on the verge of financial ruin, when he can no longer regret it, let’s just say that he has a spiritual response in that system of values and he has to explain to the child that he can’t learn a foreign language, that he can’t go to sports, when he has to say it all in some way but you may not be able to go to that school either. We're going to teach you or Grandma and Grandpa because we can't pay. Well, it's just that saying this is going to be in the budget which is not now for 2013 and the children who will attend, those 800 children who will attend preschool which is very important, for them only for education they will have it for free.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21575	The replica corresponds to the respected Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21576	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21577	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21578	So the one who doesn't need anything has everything. The more we seem to be less of our own, and I'm afraid that addiction is about having it, I don't ignore it but it's too prominent and it's described to a healthy society where materially Western Europe lives well but where it is spiritually poor in my opinion. If parents want well for their children, I accept absolutely but the way they want to please their children is not always correct in my opinion and is not always effective and that is the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21579	We're continuing the club debate. The time foreseen for presentation of the HDSSB club's views will be shared by colleagues Drazen Djurovic and Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go. ... Excuse me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the HNS club Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was actually afraid not to say it, but I think it's the same as my HDSSB colleagues that I'm going to have to speak for the HDSSB club, and that wouldn't be good for either of us. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary and Assistant Minister. The bill that is before us contains a whole series of changes in larger and smaller, some of them cosmetic, and some of them are essential so that on behalf of the HNS Club, I will simply turn to everything that is written here. In the first article, the word education is changed to education and that is, of course, absolutely fine. It's more about symbolism than about some fundamental change. However, symbolism is an important thing both in politics and in the state and in society. What we should follow after this symbolism and come up with one of the key problems of our entire education system, especially the preschool education and education system, which is that really kindergartens become available to their children in the Republic of Croatia, that they become available as regards the number of places in kindergartens, that there are no children who have no place in kindergarten and that they become available at a price, that the price paid by parents but that indeed kindergartens are not exclusive and the only burden of local self-government units in the situation of income reduction, and the growing expenditures because then the situation is actually the most suffering they are always the weakest in society again, and these are in this case children. In addition, the availability of kindergartens is a question and the promotion of birthrights with which we have problems in the Republic of Croatia and the question of facilitating employment primarily for young mothers who are most often in a situation where there is no place for a child in kindergarten and, for example, parents do not have what is often a case of money to pay someone to look after children, then it is the mother who stays home with the child in most cases and is in some way additionally disabled and excluded from the labour market. And of course, the availability of kindergartens and kindergartens is also a question of education that we all swear on all the time, including myself, especially me. Article 2, absolutely fine, we don't have any objections. 3. The article provides for the harmonisation of the tasks performed by kindergartens as public powers with the Administrative Procedure Act, and we consider it a good thing that procedures at various levels, in various institutions, are coordinated, are predictable, transparent, known in advance, that the rules of the game are known and that we do not have any objections in this regard. Article 4 is fine. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's something that we're being read by this law that's turned on a flash of potential danger, namely, I'm going to give you a concrete example. We have a kindergarten in a large Croatian town, a large kindergarten, 4 district facilities, 500 children, and in the middle of the school year, one object is closed due to perseverance. And now the children of the facility are moving to the other three other facilities of the kindergarten, the hall is being re-used for the group, the end of the hall is being re-used for another educational group, etc. I'm afraid with one of these... we're actually putting ourselves in danger that we either don't respect our own laws or that, for example, in a situation like this that I've stated that we actually need to shut down a kindergarten like this in fact in fact, or not give him any further work permit, and that's what the problem is, we don't have the instruments to influence the right way from the state level, from the level of the ministry on how the founders behave and how they finance kindergartens. Article 6 sets out criteria for the development of a network of kindergartens and, of course, that is absolutely acceptable. Here I must add that it is a shame in our opinion that a large number of local self-government units did not do so, and especially the problem is that most or almost all of the counties did not make the coordination of that network. It's really something to work on immediately. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its What concerns this article in some way is why we really have such a long deadline for the adoption of the National Curricula from one year after the entry into force of this law, because then we are really getting into this situation that at least two years we won't actually have, the next two years we won't have the National Curiculum applying in kindergartens. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I have to say very openly why? Why? In fact, we don't have the right systematic, analytically reasoned explanation of why preschool should be mandatory. We in Croatia have a huge problem with strengthening and growing burden on children in every way. At the time I started primary school, I learned to write and read at school, in my teacher’s first class, and at that time my friend taught me how to read and write. Today, when a child comes to the first class without being able to read and write, he is already behind the first day, already in trouble. We're estimating them. Why do we evaluate children of 6, 8, 10, 12 years of age? Why? And then, in five years' time, someone will remember that preschool should be graded. So will someone remember in 10 years that the preschool grade should be on the average for high school enrollment? So what I'm saying is that without a systematic analysis of this question, it's actually a bit problematic to say that preschool is exactly what we need anyway. How kindergartens that are completely covered in many parts of Croatia will submit the fact of compulsory preschool. But there's one thing I have to be fair about, to be honest with you, I have one more thing to say. It's really a problem in the kindergarten system, there's really no money, we really have standards that were passed a few years ago, and they're coming to pay for it, and it really has nothing to do with this government, and we can't just pretend that it happened to us and where it came from, because we know how it happened to us, we know where it came from, I know what political majority it is that has made, which in some way now comes to the Republic of Croatia and the state and the Ministry of Science and Education and the units of local and regional regional administrations and self-government on the charge. However, the problem we have is now real. We are actually in a situation where with this proposal of compulsory preschool, with these situations that follow us with applying standards in kindergartens we come into a situation that we have found or taken or bought a new, polished, powerful, beautiful motor of 400 horses or more and we are trying to push it into a rotten Ficek. It's not working! So we have to fix it, fix it, strengthen it at all levels, and then we can actually start with this kind of procedure. What I'm trying to say is that we need to analyze what is the situation and what is the situation in the education system, as well as in the pre-school education system. We need to define concrete objectives and then we need to define measures to achieve these objectives. Because this is kind of by throwing the patch even with the best intention, but the question is, can we really make real changes and make steps that are expected of us as political majority? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Shorter programs outside kindergarten absolutely fine, we have no objections. This Regulation shall enter Workers in kindergartens and their qualifications it's also totally fine. But here I would just like to stress, repeat first that we are all aware that the system of kindergartens in Croatia is in grave trouble. The breeder is too small, the groups are too big, the demands are growing, the wages are weak as unfortunately everywhere in Croatia wages are weak. But besides being an aunt or an uncle in kindergarten is a physical and psychologically extremely demanding job. And that's why here and on behalf of the HNS Club, and I personally give it to all of us to think about, in times that are coming, that this job is somehow involved in some of the possible benefits of a job internship or some other relief options. Because really when people come in later life years, and they still have to have 25 kids a day, pick 'em up, put 'em down, dress 'em up, strip 'em, take care of 'em, maybe they deserve some other kind of regulation and their status as employees. This Regulation shall enter Restricted employment with regard to punishment and judicial proceedings. Indeed, it is a very special segment and there is a need to be careful and I fully support it. This Regulation shall enter The publication of a contract for employment on web sites. It's okay. We all know there were these cases, newspapers, so what newspaper. So if you published in some newspapers that are a bit of a circulation, then there was a question, etc. That's absolutely fine. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Director shall meet the conditions for the I also support, and that is another way to reduce the possibility of manipulation and avoidance of certain regulations and norms. This Regulation shall enter The ban on promiscation. I have to say that there seems to be maybe that article was badly formulated in fact. On the one hand, it allows for very extensive interpretation, and on the other hand it is very restrictive. We really don't see in HNS why a kindergarten that has some common rooms, which has some halls, some hallways, why it can't, for example. at the level of the eyes of an adult not to rent children to an advertising agency such a place for posters and then, of course, with some standards and categories which may and may not, but also in this way, may achieve a greater income. Especially since kindergartens also have buildings, so also some part of the outside of the building that is not facing, for example. According to the playground, children can be used for an ad of which kindergarten can have financial benefits. The kindergarten fence, too. So it would be a good idea to be restrictive on the one hand, and on the other hand, an article which then allows a lot of free interpretation to think a little bit about formulating it in some other way. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. - Violent provisions, okay we agree, but what we should stress is that among these allegations of violations there are things that are truly the responsibility of the kindergarten itself, and there are things that are the responsibility of the founder. And perhaps there you should see that those things that are the responsibility of kindergarten itself can indeed be fully his responsibilities in an infringing sense, but those things that are the responsibility of founders and unfortunately kindergartens themselves are often not influenced, perhaps you should see that they are not the exclusive responsibility of kindergartens and people who manage them. Article 19, I have already mentioned, states that within a year, the Minister will bring the National Curricula, the deadline seems to be long, it is not clear to us why it is such a long time, given that then that year given the time in which we are now and when we are going to pass the law assume that we may not have a new National Curricula for at least two years. Here, therefore, the HNS club in principle supports this bill. We hope that some of the remarks that are in ours and some other discussions will be brought to the attention of the second reading. However, and with this I will end my debate on behalf of the CNS, we have been here for a year now, when I say to me, the political majority of the coalition of parties currently in power, and in fact it would be good to finally see an analysis of the state of the education system as soon as possible, to see what are the goals we want to achieve and to see what are the measures that we will achieve. This would first make it easier for us MPs to adopt legislation regarding education, given that we know more precisely and clearly what our goals are, which is what we are going towards and why the law is not passed, and I am sure that it would be easier for you in the ministry to explain some moves and some procedures, and it would certainly be easier for you to explain the importance of education and science and in a situation where, for example, it would be easier. brings the budget to the Republic of Croatia so that there is no science and education, no matter what we all swear to it, but always the greatest loser in this young country that needs education and science more than perhaps anything else at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21581	Thank you, too. I think we've got a dozen replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21582	Dear Vice President, you've given your esteemed colleague Coleman now at the end, I'm leaving from the end, too much burden to the government. You said it would be good if the government made a thorough analysis of the situation and set goals, you said to see where we were going. I agree with you, we tap in the dark. You should've done it at the beginning when you took over and you should've already offered solutions. It's not too late after a year. And in this part of it, I agree when you said that between words you should approach this problem more seriously. And you have instructed specific articles to be considered which should be considered and amended by the Proposer. The government's increasing burden shifts to a local self-government that is becoming more and more cramped under all these burdens. And those who think that in Zagreb the situation is much better and that Zagreb can take it all together. The city of Zagreb is well-known and self-debted as Greece, it is before collapse and will be difficult to bear these new burdens as well. But it is certain that Zagreb is not obliged because it is poor, Zagreb is obliged because it is mishandled. For decades and more, it has been mismanaged by the SDP, which promises to decentralisation Croatia, and the only thing that has decentralisationd so far is obligations, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21583	Thank you. Next replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21584	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to admit that I'm a little pleasantly surprised because a colleague who spoke from the ruling coalition, yet a little with one dose of criticism, and I think it's a good thing that things like that are heard here from your circles that we don't just blindly praise what's ours even though they're aware that it's not good. What he started with began with the analysis and at one point emphasized the availability of kindergartens. The availability of kindergartens despite the fact that even the situation in Zagreb is not great, before we heard Velika Gorica, but the availability of kindergartens in city centres, in large cities is still better than in Banovina, Posavina, Slavonia, Moslavina, where there is no traffic network, there is no public transport, there is nothing. Where employment is lower, there are far more unemployed than in cities and how we are now practically obliged by these families to have a new cost. And they have a new cost it's safe and still a colleague mentions big kindergartens that reroute their space. It's a real problem that we're creating some new standards that the constitution isn't appropriate, but that's another solution like that. I don't agree with him, but how so. Unfortunately, we now have a situation in Croatia that we do not have a solution. Tomorrow, a colleague mentioned the Iron, the Court of such places will be as far away as possible. It's the same fellow mention Okay. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21585	Thank you, too. My colleague Coleman, you didn't lift the tile. I'm sorry. Next time be faster. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21586	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, Coleman, it's been nice listening to you from members of the government, how in one good way you've brought in all the articles of this law, you've explained it nicely. We've been trying this all morning, so we hear from the other side that we're either demagogues or we're populists, etc. You've really done it top-of-the-line. And we have already seen that on the issue of the Law on Primary Education when another colleague from the ruling coalition also questioned the same law because it was a source of illogicality. And I'm especially glad that part you were talking about preschool. Indeed, this article of the 8th amendments sets out 6 programmes that can be realized or implemented in kindergartens, and that article is copied from that basic law by adding a sentence, or a few words, which are mandatory for all children in the year before they leave for primary school. And that's what this whole debate is about today. You've explained it nicely, and I think it's best that the minister himself says that he's giving up on this because that's exactly what the few words are doing, and we're simply not causing trouble to the state or local self-government or finance or anything else that we can bring into this situation because the fact is that what we've all said today that preschool programmes have been achieved so far. A colleague said only 800 children were left outside of them. I will add, which criminal provision prevented those 800 children from enrolling in the first grade of the following year. Do we? We don't have it. What's the punishment for parents who won't? Your kids give in to the preschool program? [[Intruder: Time.]] It doesn't exist. So this is all kind of pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21587	Thank you. We have an answer to the replica of my colleague Igor Coleman. Here you go. Thank you. We have an answer to the replica of my colleague Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Neither I personally nor my colleagues and colleagues at the HNS have any illusions that education policy and legislation regarding education are something that is easy to do, something that can be done from today to tomorrow, something that can be done overnight. It's one of the most sensitive if not the most sensitive segment actually run by a country that on one side of every year, if bad regulation is lost, the possibility is that generation by some better model by some better system of schools. On the other hand, we cannot work forwards because long-term decisions have a long-term impact on the fates of young people. So in this sense, I think that any criticism on any side here in this assembly can only be a contribution especially because it is a law in first reading and can only be a contribution and can only help those who give up this hard and responsible and serious job that Croatian schooling in this case brings to a level that is also civilized and as far as the degree of development at which we are concerned is really appropriate since both systems have unfortunately been left behind in the last 20 years in a very difficult state in each respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21590	Thank you. Next replica Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you did a good analysis of all the articles of the proposed law, and you said that some of your remarks should be considered, and I agree. And we can conclude, the law is full of dilemmas and misunderstandings, and that law must not be. You've also opened a whole series of questions about pedagogical standards, and I agree with you that they're very difficult to implement in this situation economically, but they should exist. Do we need to move some of them, their goal of moving on can be very much discussed. In my debate, I supported the adoption of the national curricula and the national curricula is said to be brought by the minister. On whose suggestion? In the Law on Fundamental Education, if you remember a few months ago, at the beginning of the work of this ministry, we brought amendments and additions. The National Curriculum Council no longer exists, but there is a National Council for Education and Education, and I believe that it will bring this national curricula, and that it will propose it, I apologize that the minister will bring it. You've also opened a whole series of dilemmas and one that I want to mainly underline because I started it because that's that article on the 16th round of promiscation I'd say various offers and services in kindergartens. I couldn't agree with you that kindergarten could be earned because on its wall it would hang up some kind of promiscuous material that would be a potential call to buy some doactive parenting product. I think you've noticed this article quite inexplicably because you have an offer of people and schools of foreign languages, different companies that come They offer their parents, their children their products. [[Intruder: Time of colleague Roksandić.]] I think we should stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21592	Thank you. We have a response to Igor Coleman's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Roksandić mentioned that the law is full of dilemmas and misunderstandings. Well, I don't think I'm going to go in at all if I agree or disagree with that finding, but even if I agree with it theoretically, I think it's a good opportunity to be a Parliament, to be a Parliament, that the law that came to first reading all together with our knowledge, effort and ideas will turn into something that will really come to a second reading and then to being a consistent quality law. And I don't think there's anything controversial about it, I wouldn't think of it as a problem, nor would I see it as something that doesn't speak ill of either the Proposer or the bill itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21594	Thank you. The next replica of the Sun Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Coleman, there's nothing free in this country but air for now. So back to what we warned at the beginning of this debate, nothing will be free. Equally, it won't be free parents who will have to send their children to preschool. And in fact another dilemma in the law, the law doesn't say what's going to happen to those parents who don't. Who's gonna drive those kids, who's gonna secure the transport? I imagine already, you mentioned that rotten figurine that the mayors are collecting children into rotten drawers and chiefs and then they're driving them to kindergartens because they're going to have to enforce it by force of this law, and no one says what happens to those parents. So let's be serious, this is going to cost something, it's going to cost units of local self-government that, even now, once again, I'm apostrophe, they've got less and less money. As for your proposal to do something or the way of promiscation, it was quite conveniently illustrated, I also imagine, so why, for example, did not growers use their facades for something that could be financed by kindergarten. One rather original and handsome suggestion, I must admit, I'm quite surprised. And finally, I wonder what will happen, for example, in Međimurje County with the Roma population, with children we want to integrate into the community, who are many and who, as we know, do not come with any knowledge or even knowledge of Croatian language in the first grade of primary school. How to get these children into preschool, how to settle for them to come to some knowledge, which this law will make mandatory and attain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21596	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21597	Thank you. It's just about this marketing thing and that. I simply noticed that it seems to me that there is no reason for kindergartens that have real estates and walls and fences and all possible variations that can at some point be used in some way, why should we at first limit them to not be fully used in any way. But what I agree with, and I didn't mention it in the debate, so I actually wanted to answer you, so that's one thing, but what I really think should be avoided both in kindergartens and in schools at all costs, and that's any one of those arrivals of any sellers, bidders, teachers, teachers in anything that looks like sales, distribution of any product. I couldn't agree more. So I'm actually separating from one side the use of real estate in the part where it's reasonable and in accordance with some good customs and ultimately maybe an improved formulation of this article, but I absolutely agree that it's investing in space, supplying, catching, and then children have to give 20 kuna for this, 50 kuna for that, so if they don't give, it's absolutely not and there you have a complete right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21598	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said very nicely that you should be the goal of all of us, and through the adoption of this law that kindergartens become available at the price and number of places for all children, that is, for all parents who want it. Unfortunately, this will not happen either, or the legislator believes that this will happen because then he would not retain Article 20 of the existing law which determines who has the advantage of enrolling children in kindergartens and lists the children of disabled victims of the Homeland War, families with three and more children, parents, etc., a number of criteria proposed by the law. Unfortunately, just because you said that the whole burden of starting kindergartens falls on units of local self-government, some of which are not capable, for example, the city of Zadar today in the situation that there have been subsidies to private kindergartens or the establishment of kindergartens has come into the situation that there is no child who cannot be enrolled in kindergarten and has also established clear and transparent criteria for enrolment and publication of results and these criteria. And I am therefore surprised that the proposer, particularly Minister Jovanovic, who was the chairman of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Corruption Implementation Strategy, did not use this amendment of the law in this direction to recognise the need for prevention of corruption in such a way as to amend this Article 20 and not to say that the way to take advantage of the entry of children is left to kindergartens but to clearly determine in the law of childcare obligations because everywhere the demand is greater than the offer is a potentially corrupt area. Therefore, to commit to spinning the law, they must publish first requirements for enrolment in a transparent manner, then the results of the enrolment and the criteria by which they will act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21600	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I actually agree with you more or less that the fact that kindergartens are left to worry about the units of local self-government, and kindergarten is a very expensive thing and we all know it, kindergarten is expensive, especially if we want to meet standards, will especially become a meeting at the moment when new standards start to apply. And it's really one topic that maybe we should talk about in a way that without spinning again completely falls on the burden of expressing myself to the state. But in which way the state or ministry can come up with some mechanisms and interventions precisely that in situations where there is a really standard in kindergarten because of the real constraints on the budget of the local self-government unit below any possible standard then the state can intervene there, because in my opinion it is one of the areas for which the state should be able to intervene and as far as availability is concerned and as regards the quality of accommodation, food and everything that is offered and done in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21602	Thank you. Next replica of Damir Rilje. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21603	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Minister, Honored colleague. Well, here, I can actually agree with you in the vast majority, but we've actually had to create our own criteria this whole time in order for the quality of education, preschool education to actually happen in a kind of good and beautiful way, one correct, one way that meets certain standards. Unfortunately here, it wasn't always so, and not in so long ago, so I can tell you, here's the burden on my local self-government unit wasn't enough and it was meant to create them not only to cover the holes, but also to secure that part and cover it and actually provide pre-school education on the other hand and work with children. On the other hand, nothing started, I repeat yesterday. And so are these pedagogical standards that are what they are. Now I repeat again and say whether we're going to be writing in the same pedagogue standards tomorrow, we're going to have to have independent facilities. Whether someone will have to allow us not to be independent objects, but we will have to continue working in buildings and be able to work in buildings of kindergartens, i.e. mangers. On the other hand, and now local self-government is doing what it does. And I don't say and agree absolutely with you that we should continue to work on systematically every new part of education and education together with the ministry to find funds. But the fact is, the means need to be found where they are. When they're gone, when they're once spent, then they're gone, and then it's really, really hard to create them because they're gone, they don't exist. Somewhere was lucky someone invested them. They're not exactly around here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21604	Thank you. We have a response to Igor Coleman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21605	I agree, I absolutely agree with what my colleague Rilje said. So I keep stressing that, we are all aware that the problem of funds, the problem of money for kindergartens is one of the key problems, and in this sense we need to see how units of local self-government can be helped not to be left to themselves in such a sensitive and important issue. Because it's not just a question of a small municipality, not a small or big city, it doesn't matter. Some of the worst situations in kindergartens are right in large cities in Croatia, so even size does not necessarily depend, it does not necessarily guarantee quality or non-quality. But this is not a question of any particular local self-government, but it is, after all, a question in which we as a society and as a state treat our successors, our future and those who are the weakest and most vulnerable in society and in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21606	Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Coleman, what I'm about to say, but it also applies to other parliamentary representatives, but also to the media and every time I react. Today we're talking about children, children who are both our love and our sun. We're not talking about any kids. Kids it's such an ugly description of a child or a name for a child who, unfortunately, is not your fault, he's kind of offended himself here from some long time ago. But think about what a kid means, what all the connotations he's got, and we call our kids kids kids. And they are our sun, our love, our children simply. And I will be there in the Croatian Parliament that none of us here when talking about kids talk about no kids, because then we can expect those same kids to call us all some other ugly names. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21608	Thank you, too. We have a response to Igor Coleman's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21609	Well I think actually the debate is about style, so the question is whether you should. But I think what I'm saying in the House and I often talk about education and about children and our suns and our future, I think the content of what I'm saying is enough about my relationship with our children. But don't forget, speaking of style, don't forget that I used the word "kids" exactly in a sentence where I wanted to show that the job of a foster mom or a kindergarten teacher was a very difficult and stressful job. So there is a possibility that I also used the word at the level of style to illustrate the weight of the work that these people are facing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21610	Thank you. The next replica is Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21611	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Coleman, here in this short replica I'll just try to look back on your comparison with Ferrari and Fitz. I don't think she's relevant to these amendments and the additions to the laws. You know well that each system has a certain level of sustainability, complexity, and therefore an inert that resists change. A particularly educational system where the environment changes can be said in a vivid way hundreds of years faster. The change must also respect both all opportunities and times at which they are brought to be both applicable and effective. Of course, we must also respect the conditions that we ourselves have set for state pedagogical standards. And one remark only. It is not necessary to interfere with the mind that according to the functional theory of education schools is the main means of achieving uniformity. In that sense, any isolation especially in terms of underdevelopment is not welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21612	Thank you, too. And the last replica, colleague Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21613	God forbid it's the last, Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Coleman, and there are again protests, I apologize, fellow Coleman, you have told one truly true truth at the very end of your presentation when you said that the government should make an analysis of the situation, set goals, make a strategy that is truly true. The question arises what has been done over the past year, what has been done in those preparations for taking over, what has been done in that Programme and Plan 21? Obviously nothing, if only now needs to do that state-of-the-art analysis, determine goals, bring strategy. That is the truth we must tell the Croatian people. So we don't even have a strategy, we don't have goals, and we haven't even done an analysis of the situation. And I hope that the state in which we are in, as the Prime Minister Milanovic says, is not the tunnel we are currently in, but at the end of the tunnel there is light. I'm the only one who's afraid it's not the one in the tunnel in the middle of the dark shining five-pointed stars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21614	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21615	I mean, without the intention of being anyone's apologist, but I really don't think it's gonna make an analysis of the situation and define the goals and set a strategy in a system like education and then also science and high schooling that it's easy and simple to do it from today to tomorrow. After all, you are in executive power, you know well that actually until a man enters the system that the entire picture is not visible from the outside and that only really when it enters the system is it possible to fully see what the picture is, which are problems and financial and humane and organisational and regulation etc., etc. What I agree with is that it has now been a year and that the time is slowly coming really time for certain indications of such an analysis and such a strategy to begin to reach us here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21616	Thank you. I didn't mean your colleague Vinkovic's last, I meant the last reported replica. So there's no confusion. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, the debate was shared by Drazen Djurovic and Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament and Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. Well, in these year's term of office, Minister Jovanovic has marked indeed several significant steps he has taken. The first thing we met at the beginning of the mandate was the drying of the swamp of Croatian football but after drying it seems that it was found that mosquitoes and crocodiles were living in the swamp, so there were no results. The next step in the year was a bright idea which was also carried out on the elimination of evaluation at the midterm. Here are our children now who are going to the victim's school and the next initiative. The third initiative, which follows the mandate of Minister Jovanovic, was the introduction of a health education which, through the argument of force and political majority, imposed its own worldview and the worldview of its own political elite on the majority Christian worldview of the state in which it is acting as a ministerial duty. And now comes the fourth political initiative: amendments and additions to the Preschool Education and Education Act. So four of these are more visible, there were even smaller initiatives. Well, the predecessors actually said that when this whole bill of amendments is read, the question arises, what are the objectives of these amendments and the addition of the laws at all. I mean, everything has, you have to have a goal, some purpose and some reason. We heard on the side of HDZ criticizing that 550-year hours are being introduced here, so some preschool classes. On the other hand, we heard from the SDP that nothing really changes here, that everything remains the same as the old one, only that the goal is to introduce compulsory preschool education to those 800 and I don't know how many children in the Republic of Croatia who are not covered by current preschool education that they are included. Now, if the goal really is to get 800 and some children who are not the only ones who are not covered by preschool education to cover them in preschool education then they shouldn't have changed... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 800 people are telephoned or visited by 800 families and can be determined for each of the reasons why their child attends preschool education. And that ministry can spend within a week or 10 days. What makes me even more, which I am even more afraid of here in this bill and what no one has apostrophe, is the National Curriculum of Preschool Education, Curiculum or the scientific basis on the Croatian preschool education brought by Minister Jovanovic. I fear one such curricula or science base, and I hope that the year will pass, so that this mandate will expire that our children will not be affected as this education that was introduced to elementary schools affects them. Analyzing the article by article Agent Coleman pointed out so I won't actually go back to the more unnecessary of these changes that don't usually bring anything. And then the question is, what are these changes for anyway? Is there any purpose here in these amendments, and what articles of these amendments that are even proposed are necessary? Because here it's all part of the modification, and part of the introduction of unnecessary, part of some such minimal changes. I think it might be the happiest thing for a proposing or for our children to just pull this out of the process. We don't need another reading because I don't see what we're going to change here at all, and why would we even change it or see what we're getting at all? I've had three who've been going to kindergartens since the beginning of their own kind since we've been working and they've done those kindergartens all over the age groups and now they're going to school and really kindergartens have their problems. I also had the opportunity to have children attend these kindergartens in different cities, it is indeed an exceptional inequality of the opportunities that children have during attending those kindergartens because the amounts that local administration units are depending on their financial power to co-finance certain kindergartens are very different. And indeed where those units are poorer there are your kindergartens poorer. Where the unit of local self-government is richer there are those kindergartens richer, there is simply a better quality. And there is a really great inequality but this inequality stems unfortunately from the real financial differences that exist in the Republic of Croatia from the extremely large differences that exist in the Republic of Croatia. What I would suggest to the Minister if he really didn't know exactly what he would do, given that this proposal to amend the law actually does nothing or does nothing that should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament at all, here's my proposal that he would now make a public attempt if he could and may have time or find time to encourage those textbooks. What really bothers the parents of the children of the first grade to embellish really these textbooks physically and to see what the contents of that student’s study bag that goes to the first grade is because on paper it looks different sometimes compared to the real state of all textbooks and all the notebooks that the child should take when he goes to first class. And maybe it would be true if it could be changed without talking about the quality of the desperate quality of those textbooks. Some of them are called textbooks and half of them should be printed. It's not a textbook that's the one that's being swept under the notion of textbooks a subtly semi-worked notebook which, of course, those who sell those books, of course, and when a child writes half the textbook can't use that textbook anymore. So the quality of these textbooks content and quantity plus all this other stuff that the child needs to take in the first grade, it's really something that only the ministry could and could influence to make it easier physically for those children at all, especially this first class and entering the school itself. And as far as this is concerned, here's a colleague, Vinkovic, will move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21618	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Not to repeat too much of what is said and a number of replicas but there is a legitimate concern about the implementation of this law itself, and I will start from the very end where it is found in this explanation that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, so it is a legitimate question who and how will finance the implementation of preschool, not only for this year but also in the future? So is that a local self-government unit? Are they parents? Who is it that will finance an increased number of hours, an increased number of preschool employees? Who is it that will finance transport because we should not forget that we do not all live in Zagreb that is connected by trams, buses, taxis, that we do not all live in Rijeka, that we do not all live in rich, developed areas? Here's my colleague Shuker said that the town of Velika Gorica is investing in a preschool program of nearly 58 million kunas, which is no reason why I don't believe it. The city of Djakovo has no budget of $58 million. No, there is no city in Slavonia the size of the city of Djakova such a budget unless it is county headquarters and has additional income. We are reduced exclusively in the process of the so-called so-called process. decentralisation, and this is obviously one of the laws that first increases and re-centralises from the county offices, it passes to the state administration's office of a certain authority. On the other hand, the power of finance is decentralised, above all, and the full cost of introducing this law is headed towards the local self-government unit. It should not be forgotten that in some parts of Croatia every village, so every village doesn't even have a regional school because by rationalising both numbers and in any case, it has been related to the inability to keep teaching in buildings dating back to Mary Teresa's age in which nothing is invested or invested, many regional schools have been abolished for rationalization and preschool programs because these settlements do not have social non-communicated homes, sometimes they don't even have local ones that can't even call it a cafe. And a legitimate question arises where this preschool programme will take place because it is now happening in such environments not in the centre where children's kindergartens are, therefore, in cities, but are separated and taken place in suburban settlements in rural or elementary schools. In any case, if such an introduction is, above all, mandatory preschools as some have said, there is no sanction against those who are not sent to preschool. I personally didn't go to kindergarten or preschool, I remember because my mother didn't work, I think she raised me well, that I had a good family education. I remember I didn't even know how to write when I started primary school. I ask myself a question, today many children are using the Internet at the age of 3 as well as my daughter, but here I couldn't write or add or multiply, all of which I learned at school, starting with Ana and Ivo going to school and going to that sun on the window, and finally to Krleža, Hemingway, etc. So nothing was missing in my education system. So here we are looking for a clear and loud answer who will, and here I agree that first we should do a state-analysis, set the goals before all this preschool education, introducing compulsory preschool education. And I remind you that 10 years ago, a ministry also wanted to introduce instead of a mandatory eight-year-old school, a nine-year-old school, that the project was then failed for the same reasons as I believe only by law could not be done but should indeed be done. And I think that there was enough time to make one full analysis of the situation because something written on paper in practice, I say in practice, because in real life it is inequitable if it is not provided for financial resources because these children will certainly not have an open school or school in nature or Partizan school, but these children require above all a standard that applies to developed parts of Croatia and that standard should be unique in the territory of Croatia as a whole. Not wanting to see what happens now in elementary school where the decentralised funds for the functioning of primary education, secondary school, where many directors are struggling to solve material costs for schools without clear definition and objectives and funding, the HDSB club cannot support the adoption of one of these laws because the financial means for implementing this law are not at all secure and you want to transfer all the burden to a local self-government unit where many in Croatia can no longer exist in the way they existed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21619	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. We have one replica at the presentation of our colleagues, Djurovic. Here you go, pal Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21620	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djurovic, you said you were afraid of what this education that is now being introduced will bring and you expressed concerns, etc. I'm not afraid of what this educational process will bring that is now being introduced, nothing special will bring. A child can only be raised at that youngest age in the house and from parents, we all know that. And by the way, I'd like to say that here I don't think we should compete on who loves our children more, we all love children, everyone here. Let's relax and sort of go from zero to this debate, from a positive zero that we all have the same feelings and also the greatest criminals gentlemen, tough killers love their children and they would kill someone who touched that child, and he killed a hundred people, you know what I mean. So we're all in a good mood for kids, and we'd all like the best. There's a question of what and how. It's obvious that the state is going through some educational processes to address the issue of home education. No, that's what Hitler tried to do... so Tito Yugoslavia was putting on a five-pointed star... a red star, nothing. Everything depends on the parent, on the family, etc. And we're not going to solve this much, but what I'm saying is, obviously, that there's a non-serious policy here in the sense that I'm repeating it all over again, it's easy for someone else to pay, who's going to pay doesn't matter, it's important that we introduce something. Dear Mr. Minister, you would now come directly to you, instead of introducing as many programs as possible, and you're not reducing anything, it's a larger number of hours, and you're not just reducing anything in preschool education, but in preschool education, especially in primary and high school, you're reducing the number of mandatory hours, you're reducing the amount of material, volume of material, you're reducing the details our children have to study at school. You will save them, and they will carry you both parents and children, and they will praise you as a great minister, as a successful minister. If you do not, increasing the volume of materials in any way will not succeed and your children and parents will not remember you well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21621	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21622	So you've gone a little further to Mr. Marasovic now than the subject of the definition, you've actually set a little bit behind the back of this whole web thing. Of course, neither fascism nor communism recognized the family as the fundamental unit of society because it was not the basis of any of these order. Even today, an extreme left that does not discern the concept of family as one community in which the father, mother and child are located, which is why they are also giving us a collateralized entire form of various communities that should gradually replace the fundamental unit of the family that has father, mother and children. And of course that's why they offer these enhanced institutional forms that would compensate for less and less in their eyes an important family that has a father, mother and children who respects grandparents and who think it's not normal for children to raise, for example, two families of the same sex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21623	Thank you. Next link to the presentation of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said when you went to school, you were teaching Anna and Ivo, and I was learning hair and straight lines. However, we cannot say that this is, that today's program is so easy. Thus, today’s first - grade school program is very demanding. And I don't understand why you're against this law, against the introduction of preschool education to be obliged, to serve as a preparation for that first class which is of course required, to serve as a preparation for, to prepare socialization, to actually prepare a child to be easier both child and parent and, of course, teacher, teacher who teaches it. That's why I don't understand why you're even against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21625	Thank you. Moving on to individual You didn't pick up the plate, I didn't notice. [[Invader Vinkovic: A response to the replica?]] I'm sorry. Next individual debate of counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21626	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I think we've lost a lot of time today to discuss something that should be discussed differently. We often went past the subject by running away from what really mattered. I am pleased to discuss so much about children, to express so much concern and desire for them to be better. But in this law, amendments to the law in principle children are not at all the subject of a debate. Because the kids like the lady said we shouldn't say that. I tell my kids so I'll tell our kids free they're both very happy to go to a small school and kindergarten and later to school and it's not controversial and it's not debateable. What's controversial here is that we actually put new burdens on the back of citizens, parents, parents of children. And as has already been said in many discussions, of course probably at local self-government even though, as already mentioned, it does not say anywhere here in these amendments that it will be a mandatory form of schooling, but it says that the government has decided or done something, and we are now going to make changes to the law. I guess after that, what the government decided would be an integral part of that law. It is a fact that local self-government is very difficult to live and that it is very difficult to follow all those obligations that we now have not in the desire for the state to order us what we must, but in the desire to give our citizens a man of dignity. I come from a city that has no problem with preschool education. We have enough capacity to take care of all our children whether in the preschool section in the primary program, whether in the playrooms, whether in the small school program. But, realistically, we must keep in mind that the mothers of children who, by bringing into the mandatory form of this little school, should drive their children and deliver them to facilities where this will take place, no matter where they may come with tears in their eyes, as a mother with tears came to me today morning and asked if we would have to put up the tills, because I have to raise a loan so that I could feed my children. That's the problem. This is the problem of intensities at all to introduce such a mandatory form without providing the means to do so. Local self-government stands out huge resources for this. Here's an example for me. Somewhere around 15% of the original revenue budget goes to preschool education and I'd like it to go even more, if it could be provided to children. That's what all parents would love, but in a way they're not all the same again, because they're paying for kindergarten, and others are going to a small school. So those who pay kindergarten should basically pay for the half, at least half of their education while others would be freed, or would be burdened by parents or on the burden of local self-government. It is certainly not a good view if we think it is easy to bring children to preschool education, to a minimum program because in practice this program does not overlap anywhere and does not correspond to, say, student transportation because it is mostly in some of the tours, because it is totally outside of that time system that has a primary school. It is shortened, it comes at a different time and of course to create new costs and that no one can cover it, that no one can put it in some frames of that regular education. But what matters to me here, and the same thing has been said, I would like to start talking really about dispensing students, about discharging programs, and to start talking about a system of education that, somewhere with sixteen years of age, would let children out of compulsory education with the first signs of earning their own bread. That should be our goal, that way we should set things up. Now we have a story that from the state level we are being created and imposed, my dear ladies and gentlemen, we have come into a situation in local self-government that someone has allowed an increase in the tariff for gas energy on the industrial tariff for schools and kindergartens and that we have received twice the amount of gas overnight. Then the situation came that someone approved an increase in electricity, so we also got bigger bills overnight for energy. Then someone decided it was necessary for schooling, and this is about preschool education because a good part of the minimum program works in primary schools, to reduce funds for decentralised functions, but at the same time we got an increase in material costs. So I'm asking you how can we at the local self-government please everyone? How can we even handle it and how can we finance it? And we have to keep all this in mind when we talk about this. And as far as this proposal is concerned, there are things that need to be done here in one, because this is some technical proposal, so I'm going to say in the technical section like this. I think that for these offices that issue permits to start work, the institution should put an 8-day deadline on the issue of permits, and not that the private investor who invests in preschool education invests in funds, invests money, parents wait for registration, and then some office there, some clerk there for a month, a month and a half days does not issue a solution because he is on vacation or on vacation or who knows where, and only that person does that job. This is what I'm saying from practice. Also, criminal provisions are being ordered here for the legal person and the person responsible for it. So I suggest and add let's agree, let's be criminal provisions, but then let's put in criminal provisions for the ministry and the responsible person in the ministry if he doesn't pass the rule within the time limit prescribed by this proposal. Let's be even here, let's all be in the same basket, and then we'll all work things out faster and work things out easier. And one more thing, I haven't noticed any changes to the law of equalising the standards of employees in preschool institutions. Well, I don't know how many departments there are, but childcare salaries are different from kindergartens to kindergartens, from local self-government units to local self-government units. People do the same job for totally different salaries. There we need to cut, there are some things we need to make, there we need to be a little more active, more aggressive for people to get paid the same way they deserve because they do all the same work in Croatia in the same places. Here, with these few notes and that remark that I definitely don't see a lot of reasons here for these changes, they're more technical and I ask myself why we've spent practically all afternoon today to prove to ourselves that some things need to be pursued, that some things need to be done, and basically nothing important is going to happen except that citizens, parents and local self-government will ultimately have a slightly higher cost if the state doesn't provide funds for what it says is mandatory and free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21627	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to refer to the children first, and I didn't say it here and ban someone but I asked them to talk about the children as children, not as kids, and I'm going to tell you outside why I mean it, and I think because they didn't deserve such an ugly name. And secondly, here we are listening to these whistles here, there are workers out there without a job and there are families out there. It's not one, it's times four. And, of course, Mr. Minister, I agree with all those who are, we ask that in the budget as much as possible, and thus this, ensure the funds in the budget that parents, that families who are jobless, that families who do not have the means anymore are really, with all the increases and taxes and living costs they can't anymore, families are cornered. There is little left but love and respect in these families but they cannot then successfully respond to such legal proposals. to send their children, to drive them to extra preschool. Which, of course, is positive. As it was said, a small school existed and it's very good. But here's the minister. Listen to the whistles. They're the same family that won't be able to successfully answer this bill of yours. A colleague, and children are children.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21629	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21630	I agree, ma'am. Here it wasn't on purpose that it was said so perhaps. I really love kids, I'd give anything for them, and it's not controversial and questionable. And what you've also said about these things, with these parents, along with the part of how you bring kids in at all, I'm really well-versed in this matter, and it's definitely a big problem, so you should really think about it, when tomorrow comes, maybe a bill of amendments to the law that means proposing preschool education becomes mandatory in the legal frameworks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21631	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. He's a colleague of Josip Boric's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21632	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. We are pleased to have you with us today after a few days waiting for this debate. The minister can't, practically in the ministry, and we don't have a person except a minister who can defend this law. It is known that the deputy is missing, so it is hard to expect that this is how the headless ministry can produce a better document than this. But it's a good thing I go to education. What do we have in education today? In order to be able to speak at all in education or speaking, we need an institution, process, content and result in the function of knowledge of skills and development of abilities. We have formal education that we get in schools and colleges and the informal education that some say is acquired outside of school or around school. Croatia has 6 degrees of education from pre-school education to postgraduate education and an eight-year compulsory school in the period from 6 to 15 years. The kids are on their way to school when they're six years old. Each EU country has adapted the system of education to its opportunities and is each similar and none are almost the same. We're talking about preschool education here today. The system, which includes organised care and teaching children from 6 months to school, is large and annually includes about 150 thousand children in private, urban, and religious kindergartens. The system has 673 kindergartens in over 1600 objects. And it represents a serious and large system. Most children include day-to-day programmes in kindergartens of almost 112,000 or 74%. The preschool programme includes only 15 thousand children or 10% of children and short programs in kindergartens about 23 thousand or 15%. The number of workers in that system is high. Ten thousand breeders, breeders and professional services, 6 thousand other accompanying staff of cooks, cleaning women and all that every kindergarten should have in order to function normally. I'm making this clear to create a picture of what kind of system we're talking about not underestimating it and understanding its size. Over this system of states there is legislation I would say formal jurisdiction everything else, it is materially within the jurisdiction of local self-government units. So now I'm going to start on this bill, just a few of the most important changes. A formal change in the name of law education is changing into education, I hope it's acceptable for everyone. The second amendment, the law prohibits childcare in kindergartens persons who are being punished for criminal acts, domestic abuses with those who have stopped working because of unprofessional treatment at the expense of the rights and interests of children. This government has provided a criminal responsibility for the use of marijuana and light drugs, so I suggest that we add to the article of the 25th Law for the misdemeanour of the use of light drugs because in Article 25, we only have intoxicating drugs as a punishable act and opposition to employment. The national pedagogical standard and respect for it is acceptable if it does no harm. And it is already visible, 70% of kindergartens have no conditions for respecting the pedagogical standard if they do not want to reduce the number of children in educational groups and then at the whole kindergarten level. When you passed a law like this if you passed it, and there was an appeal for him to withdraw because it was visible and we witnessed that the government had withdrawn one other law on higher education from the procedure because those who could oppose such a law, which is an academic community that has such power, had succeeded in that. Unfortunately, local self-government cannot be opposed here, and that decision is only for the minister or the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia. When you pass such a law in accordance with the criminal provisions that you listed immediately, Ministers write fines from 10 to 15 thousand for one 70 to 80% of kindergartens and these fines from 5 to 8 thousand kunas to directors of those same kindergartens because they will not be able to comply with the provisions you have given them. The mandatory preschool schedule is unacceptable. So far, we've had mandatory eight-year schooling that's free. Now, according to this bill, preschool becomes mandatory, but it's not free. Many children pass this program in a day-long stay or in a short program, and I've presented the numbers as much as it is, it's 90% of the children and they're paying for it. It's impossible to separate this bill, it's impossible. If something has to be mandatory, someone can't pay the same, and someone doesn't pay the same. This law is also a matter of constitutionality. It creates differences and violates a certain constitution. If this is being introduced purely because we can say that we have 9-year primary education because it is said by the eight-year-old minister backwards, then it is not good. You're proposing raising the fund hours in preschool from 150 to 170 today to 550 hours in advance. We heard the first question and the basic question who's going to pay for it, and the second question is, isn't that too much of a burden on children of that age? 550 hours is an annual captainate in the first class, 210 hours of Croatian language, 180 hours of mathematics, 35 hours of art, 35 hours of music and 105 hours of body. Can we burden these children with such a satin? If we add to this what the minister also said that he would not learn to read and write, that he would not learn something later in school, he asked himself a question, and what could fit into such a large 550-hour clock that corresponds to a yearly program in the first 4th grade of school. The second question is that the last year of a system of education or one degree of education can also be the first year of the next stage so that they can talk about the 9-year compulsory education system. These changes, no matter what is said, we still have 8 years of compulsory education, more so that even the current system may not have been perfect, but it was good. He covered 99% of the children and now, with the story that we are allowing this for new 800 children to be able or that they are mandatory to enter the preschool system, and we have no punishment for it, nothing will happen if they do not go into that system because they will certainly be able to enroll the first class next. Because if you don't graduate from 8-year-old school, you can't go to high school, if you don't graduate from high school, but if you don't finish preschool, you can go to first grade primary school on these amendments to this law. I've got a little more time. As for the appointment of the director and the announcement of the competition, nothing important changes, they still have no security. Every new color in power in the local self-government will change those directors because unfortunately it has become a policy too. It's often done without arguments. I'm going to give an example of a removed principal on my island, on the island of Rab because a member of the board heard from one of the parents that the child had eaten rotten yogurt. Unfortunately, these are the reasons for the inspection, the inspection did, the lawsuit was, but the principal's gone, a new one came, similar to a certain group. I said today how much money, so much music. Unfortunately, the music we heard, there's no money, no one's talking about them, and the obligations will remain. And I keep telling the ministers, whatever you've done, we've heard exposure from the HDSSB, you'll keep in mind that you've taken the value of two salaries to teachers and teachers in the past year, and that's going to be an entire year at the level of a four-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21633	Thank you. We've got a move on, Shima Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21634	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am convinced that these debates were not for the sake of the choices that follow us. I believe that children are in the interest of children, that they are in the interest of children all of our debates, and I am glad that they happened in the first reading, that this law will go into second reading and that the Proposer will make certain adjustments so that in the second reading they can pass such a law, amend and supplement the Law on preschool education and education that would serve children in which we all swear, in the future of Croatia, and these are our children. I repeat, and you have reiterated your colleagues and colleagues in the debate that the primary education under our Constitution is mandatory and free, although not entirely and fully and fully and the issue of all issues, all these discussions by the mayors, the mayors who are here with us in the Parliament and representatives of the county and election units representing it is that those municipalities and those cities with weak budgets, and these are many in Croatia, mainly in the eastern part of Croatia, Slavonia and Baranja, that this is an additional imposition that they wanted to help children, and they have helped all this time that this is an additional burden on their budgets. Here, for example. My colleagues and colleagues, in my Brod-Posavina County, in the eastern part of Brod-Posavina County we have 10 municipalities, not one municipality has kindergartens because the kindergarten in the construction is in Vrpolje Municipality. The teaching of this preschool as we educators say the minimum before going to 1st grade takes place in schools, in special classrooms that are designed for this arrangement, equipped and this programme has been implemented so far. If we remember 10-15 years ago that program before the first grade students were only in my county, I don't know how in the second, just 150 hours so it was raised to 250 which I support. I also support this proposal and we just have to, the promoter should go ahead in the second reading and say that this cost should be regulated. I support colleagues and colleagues who debated individually and in clubs that we must somehow reduce this cost to units of local administration and self-government because it is not natural for the municipality or school to send an account to its founder, county or municipality for the execution and use of space when it comes to material resources and everything else. Gročica is in cities, not to say that it is easy for them, but it is easier for them than the municipalities and villages where this programme should be implemented and where it is spent all these years. We should hire colleagues and colleagues here, it happened to me that we do not accept in my Brod-Posavina County that the preschool education program was done by classmates from the system. I think that we have an army of unemployed and raisers and teachers and class teachers and that they should be hired to implement this minimum programme, but again I return to that beginning, to that question of all questions that these poor municipalities, poor cities with a weak budget will not be able to fully implement. And who's going to stay cut off? Denied children. So once again, I urge you to respect Mr. Minister, this cry of ours and these suggestions to resolve this, in my opinion, a very complex question of the welfare of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21635	Thank you, too. And the next Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, here's what it looks like is actually the main change and change in this law is actually the fact that, once in a while, the article... which is now proposed as 15a. an article, in that indent on the fifth few words and which read, which are mandatory for all children in the year before leaving for primary school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the preschool program actually changes something that has so far been, which has worked relatively well for those who wanted to. It wasn't mandatory, but it wasn't completely free, so now it's changing in a way that becomes mandatory. When something is laid down by law, then citizens need to be provided with all the conditions, and the state must also ensure the conditions for it to be possible, and for those who have ensured that what the state has provided is possible, who do not respect it and do not comply with the law, then there must be some sanctions. None of these happened with the amendment and addition of this law, and that's why I don't think there's any problem today in the congested state of the 800 children we've heard, 800 children who weren't covered by preschool education and education, because their parents didn't decide whether or not they wanted to, whether they couldn't afford to send their children to the first kindergarten or any other institution where they were going, whether they couldn't pay extra what was paid in such kindergartens. So, because it wasn't just those 20 kunas the state gave you for an hour preschool education, it was supposed to bring the kids in, and then there was some meal you couldn't tell the kids, and now you can't because I don't have the money to pay you that meal, so then the parent had to pay there and that meal. So that's not the problem. The problem and that's the intensity, and that's why this law is being proposed. It's my deep belief that it just keeps going on that preschool program. Now he is required, because we heard the minister say that Croatia is a country that has almost the smallest number of years of compulsory insurance, that it is in Europe, compulsory education, that it is not well seen in Europe and that we have to do something about it. How are we gonna do that? We'll fill out these few words to say it's mandatory. And here, right away, we're going to get 9 years of compulsory education and say we have nine years of compulsory insurance, and it's not that important for these 800 kids who don't attend, because it's probably this mandatory application to them, it's only going to put them in difficulty to carry out their legal obligation to send these kids both to preschool education and education, and when they can't and when it's hard. I don't know if he's going to do that, because there's no sanctions being prevented, so I don't know how the ministry's going to behave and what it's going to do with those kids that aren't going to go. So, it's going to be a dead letter on paper, it's going to be mandatory, we can say in Europe that it's mandatory, and whether or not we're going to do it or not, that's another question. Nomotechnically, just for a little while. Some of the expressions are in line, it's not controversial. However, there was then an opportunity and in the text of the existing law in several places to be read with the expressions of local administration and self-government since the law was passed in '97. and this should be aligned with other legal texts. It is also laid down in this law which is public authority, which is performed by kindergarten as a public authority and which must apply the Administrative Procedure Act. These are amongst the children's names and we've already had speeches I think, especially you ministers understand this problem that the opportunity to adopt each regulation should be viewed in order to minimise the corruption risks of this law. And I recognize two corruption risks in this area. Like I said everywhere where demand is greater than the offer of corruption possible. Therefore, these criteria for priority in enrolment because in a series of local units, there is certainly not enough room in kindergartens, we know how to move people by the sleeve, how to ask for familiarity to enroll in kindergartens. Then it would be good if it were prescribed by law other than the criteria of advantage and the way it must be implemented in a transparent manner. The other corruption risk I see on the networks, so far it has been established that local self-government units must bring in networks and that they will be coordinated by the county. And this is a nomotechnical warning of the expression, because it is mentioned that the councils in municipalities and cities and the city of Zagreb will do so. So the City of Zagreb Assembly should say. Take advantage of the possibility to correct the legal text, but it also explains that many have not done so so far. So I ask what's the penalty if they still don't. That's not the law. And also what will be the criteria if the network is established, so if there is a numberus clause that will be a criterion if we say that the network that is intended to report several private founders who would like to start a kindergarten and what would be the criterion. It is also an area of possible corruption. I would also like to draw attention to Article 11, which is amended in Article 25. Please coordinate these names of criminal offences with the 2011 Penal Code because there seems to me to be no crime against human health, and now it's drug abuse and dealing right in that head. So, we need to comb this text and bring it in line with the 2011 Penal Code. Furthermore, this broad ban on employment not only for those who have been prosecuted and prosecuted but also for those who have been prosecuted should even the laws of the Republic of Croatia. For example, you don't have a ban like this in primary school. So, a teacher can be a person who has been punished for domestic violence, but here in kindergarten, he can't be a cook or a garbage man, and I don't know who the auxiliary staff is. I think it should be evened out. And ultimately even with the Law on Criminal Records and the legal consequences of the conviction. Secondly, here I come to the breaking provisions really asking if this government has any consistent policies on everything? In fact, this morning we listened to an assistant justice minister who had just complained about the extent of the offenses from over 700 regulations regulating a material violation law, that the misdemeanor courts had been stifled and that they were burdening this data on the cases that were left behind. Here, we now have 701th regulation, and the second question is the uniformity of criminal punishment and the severity of the offense. I'm just going to compare this proposal to, say, the elementary school and high school education Act. Here you can see there's a suspended fine for kindergartens from 10 to 15 grand and for a responsible childcare student from 5 to 8. At the same time for elementary schools, for almost the same, identical violations is twice the penalty, so from 5 to 10 thousand and for a responsible person. So, the principal at primary school will pay a fine of 2 grand for something, and the principal of kindergartens of 5. Therefore, penalties and the severity of the infringements should be evenly balanced and, in addition, provision should also be made for infringements for other provisions of this law which are not respected. One more thing, about promiscuing and advertising in kindergartens. Indeed, here as the study article says in kindergartens there is no promotion and sale of goods and services. This should be limited not only to those who do not serve the goals of education and education or are harmful to health, growth, etc. It's gonna take a lot and all the promotions, there's nothing to promote, and there's not a damn thing that can be any notebooks, cars, pens, etc. which will then be advertised to children, it is known that in promotion and advertising are the children's most favourable terrain, which will then be harassed by parents, of course, that's exactly what they're buying. Therefore, promotion and advertising in kindergarten should be completely banned in schools as well. I don't know if it's consistent with this school rule, and it should be. And what my colleague Coleman is saying about possible outside panic is a different story. But this stipulation makes it clear that it's in kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21637	Thank you. Before I give my colleague Vinkovic a line, I'll read a note. 13th session of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 22 November 2012 at 13:30 in the hall "Janko Drašković", hall 202. Comrade Vinkovic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21638	Well, dear colleagues, the basic problem of this law is the financing of this law because this law and the state budget have not provided for the means to implement this law in real life. I was down in the square now and it is definitely visible that there is a rich, that there is a poor Croatia, that there is a developed, undeveloped, I speak in Croatian frameworks, that there is an employee, that there is an unemployed. If this preschool education is required means someone needs to pay for material resources, transportation should be paid, as I mentioned that not all conditions for preschool organisation do not apply. Therefore, that transport should be provided to a place where conditions exist. On the other hand, that parent should also dress that child. You should give him a sandwich, give him a soda, buy him a pair of shoes, buy him a pair of pants. On the other hand, all the burden of carrying out a compulsory preschool has fallen to parents, and eventually it will fall to units of local self-government that at the moment have fewer and fewer funds. Not all conditions in all parts of Croatia are the same. In Slavonia, although there are many schools in Osijek-Baranja County, in the area of others they do not have all schools or halls, many schools are from the age of Maria Teresa, they do not have tablets to learn through them, they have no more board or chalk. There's a problem. The problem is that we are not all equally developed in Croatia, that we do not have the same purchasing power and that many units of local self-government and kindergartens will not be able to implement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21639	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21640	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Vinkovic, all of what I sublimedly told him, you've now worked it out a little bit more detailably and interpreted it. That's exactly what I said, and I just think that the meaning of these amendments to the law, or that the proposer doesn't think to do well for these 800 children who have not been on a voluntary basis so far, is exactly going to make them worse because they are required to do what they may not be able to do, and the state will not buy them a meal or clothes or pay them travel expenses in order to get to how small schools are said. So I said that I think the basic goal and the purpose of writing on paper is that all of them, including those 800 children, must be included to say, look, we now have a mandatory 9-year-old education. And that's whether the 800 as before when it was voluntary they didn't go to preschool for reasons because that's what their parents decided because they think it is or because they don't think it's financially and materially possible that we don't really care because we can't enforce the law because we don't have sanctions against them. So they'll still be able to not go to that little school and nobody at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21641	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21642	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Thank you all for today's debate and for those who have been constructive and those who have been cynical and those who have tried to be funny I really thank everyone because there will certainly be solutions from all the debates that will improve this text, and therefore serve the debate in two readings. What I can certainly say regardless of the debates that were both personal and directed in a way that is not correct that I do not doubt that everyone in this assembly has the benefit of children in the first place, therefore there is no dilemma. There may be differences in the resolution of all the goals we have set but I am absolutely convinced that we all want to allow every child in Croatia to have the same chance of getting the highest quality education, education to qualify that will enable him to work and get a job from which he will be fairly paid so that he can live fairly. That's one brief vision of me as the politician I'm fighting for and I'm trying to make at least a small contribution to that. There's an oath that says, "As a teacher and a raiser, I pledge to make sure, in accordance with my powers, that a generation that comes finds such a world worth living in and in which inherited burdens and difficulties do not put pressure on their own ideas and possibilities." A great oath, a great oath that I accept from this day on and as a politician for my political action and all my ideas that I have will not be burdened with the past that remained after the former authorities, which is why we are squirming in trouble today and listening to whistles on Mark's square, so I am not responsible for it. I am not responsible for not implementing pedagogical standards that have been passed as Mrs. Roksandic said with pride but then no one asked local self-government units whether they had the money to implement these pedagogical standards. And now that we're proposing one solution that's really financially at this point minimally burdensome because we've all heard that 99% of the children who are enrolled in the first grade of primary school are already going to some form of preschool. Why wasn't that a problem so far, and now it's suddenly going to be a problem that will bring down units of local self-government? so they will not be respected representatives and MPs, if necessary in the next reading we will further indicate this part of the programme, which means preschool programme, if necessary we will point out that preschool programme is mandatory for all those who have not previously attended any form of early and preschool education and we will solve all of these dilemmas that talk about enormous cost increases for local self-government units. Who today is in charge of preschool care? Local self-government units. Such is the law, such are decentralised functions and the programme preschools a small programme to be implemented in kindergartens. It can't be said that someone who goes into a ten-hour program that needs to be reduced by a third of the separation that concerns preschool programs because it's completely different. So the preschool program is being implemented in kindergartens where there are already some breeders working on the programme, there are all the resources needed and this is one programme, a programme co-financed by the state. She's co-financed it so far, she'll co-finance it in the future. And of course, if based on the state pedagogical standard that needs to be adopted by a number of debates today is not about this law, it's about the state pedagogical standard that we're going to bring in which we're going to regulate everything we need and the deadlines in which it's going to be implemented. I therefore say responsibly that the 2013 budget does not lack the funds that the state will allocate for the preschool programme, but everything about preschool education because we have prepared 18 million kunas in total. So we didn't do this in our head, so we'd be irresponsible people. Here I have a list of all municipalities, all cities in the Republic of Croatia with all children now attending preschool programs and how much money we need for it. On this basis, we calculated how much money we will need in 2013 and 2014. I therefore reject any objections concerning the inability to implement this preschool programme in the following year 2013-2014. A few debates were whether it was necessary at all. It is necessary, therefore, that all research shows that children who are involved in preschool programmes are easier to master in the first class. This is especially true and someone talked about the problem in Međimurje County, so where it is clearly proven that Roma who participate in preschool programmes can master their programme in the first grade and we have been doing it for years. I was especially grateful to the mayor of Međimurje who, in that crisis situation this year, acted very responsibly, undertaken and solved the problem that could have escalated to the harm of children. Thus, besides Roma and other children, members of national minorities in a risky situation, children with disabilities have a better chance of successfully mastering the first class and then a whole primary education if they attend early and preschool programmes. So, for all of what I wanted to say in the closing statement, I have to say another question was whether, by introducing this way, we are giving up compulsory 9-year-olds from compulsory high school. No, that's what I said at the beginning. So our goal is to make compulsory education available in Croatia to the first acquired qualification with the basis of which man can be employed. Someone's gonna be 10 years, someone's gonna be 11, someone's gonna be 12. And of course, Mr. Coleman is gone, of course we have a program, it's a Croatian government programme, of course we have an analysis in all sectors. Read the introductory notes in every law you have here from my portfolio, it is the Law on Sports, the Law on Sport Inspection, the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, the Law on Academic and Professional Names, the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, the Law on Early and Preschool Education, the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which will also come into parliamentary procedure. They write everything, an analysis of the situation and suggestions how these conditions will be resolved and most importantly, next week under the chairmanship of the Croatian Prime Minister, a session of the National Co-ordination Body for the Development of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology in the Republic of Croatia will be held, which will give a completely new picture of education, education and science in the Republic of Croatia, and I hope that you will have a debate in this high home in the second half of next year. Once again, thank you all for your contribution, and I am convinced that the material that will come into the second reading will be better quality and will receive unanimous support from everyone in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21643	I thank Minister Jovanovic. We have six replicas. Ivanka Roksandić answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm glad that by listening to this debate, you've finally determined yourself that you haven't made a good bill. You came to this yourself because you said that you were warned of some failures and even in the way that we pointed out, and also in the way of adopting a national curricula, some of the legal assumptions that Mrs. Lovrin told you and other colleagues. You also said the sentence we all want equal chances in Croatia for everyone and I agree, so we have also warned you of what you missed in this law and we are proud in 2008 and of the adoption of state pedagogical standards, but it is not only us who blames the economic situation in the world and Croatia. So don't transfer everything to us, but I'm going to ask you why you've already misplanned the state budget this year because today we're going to discuss a rebalancing of 436 million for schools, and I think you've already planned for the following year and there will be plenty of money for Croatian education. That's not true because 230 million you planned less, and you've already planned less this year. Unlike last year, I can say that there will certainly be no money for Croatian education. The demand is increasing, today there's one debated, and the money's getting smaller. It is a real reality in Croatian education.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21645	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21646	Ministers, I have this list, too, so I know the subject very well, and above all I speak here and as mayor, as a man responsible, who will have to provide additional funds in the city budget to implement this law at all because you have not responded to what I have clearly and loudly asked for. If preschool is mandatory, if the Government proposes one such law, if the Croatian Parliament adopts such a law, so that no funds are found in the state budget. If a person prescribes a liability, he must also provide those funds. And it is not true that no one warned about the adoption of the former law when the pedagogical standard was passed and when the state budgets were being passed, when we had a program in the education and education of Croatian knowledge, when we wanted to introduce one-way teaching in Croatia, when we had free transportation, when it was not satisfactorily resolved and then I talked about it and when the units of local self-government were being burdened, at least at this time, in these five years as a parliamentary representative. But this is also a burden on local self-government units because many will not be able to free the parents of that payment. Many units of local self-government are not, I repeat Zagreb and Rijeka that they have large budgets and that they can single out millions of kunas to maintain not only preschool but also the functioning of kindergartens in their area because more and more are unemployed, especially in Slavonia and Baranja. Not because...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21647	Thank you. Next, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21648	A sentence in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21649	You've finished your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21650	Not because some mayor or mayor isn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21651	Josip Boric, here's a colleague. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21652	Thank you very much. I am going back to Article 66 and paragraph 2, compulsory education is free of charge under the law. I'll have some math now. We said we had 15,000 children covered by preschool programmes, today we heard 800 of those not covered by preschool, that's 15800. And everyone else in the group up to 40,000 to go to first grade means they're missing about 24200. There's a big difference. 24200 children pay to stay in kindergarten and pass the preschool program. 15800 kids don't pay and go through preschool. If we're going to create a free 24200 children go to the burden of units of local self-government and it's an irreparable cost. 18 million kuna is small and that's what we've been talking about all day. If we understand the fact that preschools are done not only in kindergartens but also in school buildings, district schools, and certainly in 30 to 40% of cases, then the question of how we really imagine this preschool system is how you propose it is proposed by this law, and the fact is that the damage occurs and that it is best to give up this article which says it is mandatory because it has worked so far, and 800 children have no punishment and will be able to enter the first class. And I don't see why we're creating a problem for everyone because someone imagined preschool as part of a mandatory education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21653	Thank you, too. Next up is Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I asked you a key question after your opening statement. It is evident that all colleagues who at least have little, not those who know very much how local self-government works simply cannot accept here your statement that no additional resources are needed. If you've had two hours by now, and now by law you're proposing five times three hours and if by now you're practically... They didn't go as well as it could be the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second thing, Mr. Minister. Your budget's off-limits. Never a minister, at least in the last ten years of education has had as much of a budget as you have now. You were also told at the beginning of the year that you would not have enough money for basics, for the elemental functioning of the ministry. It's been determined there's not much to go on. See what happens with the rebalancing and see what the budget looks like next year. So, this debate of ours went to you as minister in favour, as resolute minister to us as Parliamentarians who are concerned about these preschool children, who want to be provided with funds. Because many units of local self-government, especially those poorer by amending the Income Tax Act, have received far less funding this year than it was last year. So this debate about the lack of funds goes to you as minister in favour, does not go counter to you. So you don't need to be nervous about it. Because no one told you that you didn't provide the funds, but we simply have to point out that because it's children that units of local self-government don't have the space to secure those funds. But don't chase yourself into a trap to claim you won't need any new funds. I'm sorry, four and 15 is a big difference. It's been four so far, and you're proposing 15 hours and you're saying you'll be able to do it with the same money. It's just impossible. Just start by saying that your electricity went up 20%, warming up 37%, that it's just extra costs, not talking about wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, I asked you a key question after your opening statement. It is evident that all colleagues who at least have little, not those who know very much how local self-government works simply cannot accept here your statement that no additional resources are needed. If you've had two hours by now, and now by law you're proposing five times three hours and if by now you're practically... They didn't go as well as it could be the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second thing, Mr. Minister. Your budget's off-limits. Never a minister, at least in the last ten years of education has had as much of a budget as you have now. You were also told at the beginning of the year that you would not have enough money for basics, for the elemental functioning of the ministry. It's been determined there's not much to go on. See what happens with the rebalancing and see what the budget looks like next year. So, this debate of ours went to you as minister in favour, as resolute minister to us as Parliamentarians who are concerned about these preschool children, who want to be provided with funds. Because many units of local self-government, especially those poorer by amending the Income Tax Act, have received far less funding this year than it was last year. So this debate about the lack of funds goes to you as minister in favour, does not go counter to you. So you don't need to be nervous about it. Because no one told you that you didn't provide the funds, but we simply have to point out that because it's children that units of local self-government don't have the space to secure those funds. But don't chase yourself into a trap to claim you won't need any new funds. I'm sorry, four and 15 is a big difference. It's been four so far, and you're proposing 15 hours and you're saying you'll be able to do it with the same money. It's just impossible. Just start by saying that your electricity went up 20%, warming up 37%, that it's just extra costs, not talking about wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21656	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, just one question. If this bill is required, please answer me because the representatives of the local communities are probably watching. And if the local administration and self-government are, if they have to finance it, and I know there's a lot of local administrations and self-government where we've been doing our own work, we've helped those kindergartens and paints, and I don't know what they've covered so that, because local self-government didn't have any money. If the local administration doesn't have any money, if the county administration doesn't have any money, will the ministry finance those kindergartens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21657	Thank you. And the last replica of Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's Mr. Minister, just one part of your exposure, so you sort of objected to us being proud of the 2008 state pedagogical standard, that we didn't ask where the money was to implement that standard. Now we're asking you. We ask that and you said that the Croatian Parliament will discuss it again, that you will present a proposal for a new state pedagogical standard because this was just a dead letter on paper. I absolutely agree that everything that is proposed is done, and especially what is proposed as an obligation for citizens to have its basis in material possibilities. So, like when you set standards, you have to have money to implement. Equally when 800 parents tell them that it is mandatory to send their children to preschool education that you must know that they will also be able to do so financially. But what I'd give you to think about and what I don't think is good in this law, and also in the Law on Fundamental Education, and you repeat it again through this law that the National Curriculum is brought by a minister. In fact, it would be great because the state pedagogical standard is actually about how many hours, how many square meters, how many employees, etc. However, the curricula sets out values, principles, general educational goals, activity and programme content, approach and way of working with children both in preschool and school, and I think it deserves a far-reaching debate here in the Croatian Parliament, where citizens' representatives are not only those political options which, with some percentages, have received elections but also representatives of all citizens, and that children's kindergartens and programmes are consumed by children of all Croatian citizens. And that's why I think it would certainly deserve a parliamentary debate, of course, as well as pedagogical standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21659	Thank you, colleagues. Minister, here you go. Replication response. You can answer from the scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21660	Thank you very much. So there's no Mr. Shucker. I'm not nervous. I thank you for your concern and I don't mind the Parliament making a decision where it will also increase the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. After all, that decision is in your hands. I repeat again, I don't think you understand. So, only after we pass the law goes to the curricula regarding the implementation of this law by the minister but of course it is not written by the minister, but written by very professional persons who have already begun to prepare for it. And then a pedagogical standard that will prescribe exactly what it will look like about the organization. And it won't burden local self-government units in 2013. This is what I keep trying to explain to you, because it will be so well understood that only in 2014 will the part that will mean increasing the scope of preschool in all institutions where it will be implemented. So I explain to you that in 2013 there will be no additional costs compared to those that are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21661	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm giving you a break and we'll be back at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21662	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, First Reading, PZ No. 192. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Education and Education Act is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'd like to make a statement as to who the proposed conclusion is. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 for and 31 against and 3 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion. Dear Members of the Croatian Parliament, Honored fellow MPs before continuing the work of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament allow me to welcome you all on behalf of the Gallery of the Croatian Parliament Jan Ertsborn 3rd Vice-President of the Kingdom of Sweden. Last week I was worse and I express great satisfaction that we can welcome them to the Croatian Parliament after ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Welcome! . I once again thank you for your visit and for the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. And we'll keep working. It is next - Proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 - proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of extra budget users for 2012: (a) Croatian Waters, (b)Fund for environmental protection and energy efficiency, (c) Croatian Roads, (d) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency, (e) State Property Management Agency. - the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget and the financial plans of extra budget users for 2012 (consolidated) is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of Articles 174 and 175 shall apply when amending and supplementing the national budget. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The discussion on the proposal for rebalancing and other acts was carried out by the Committee on Finance and State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Space Planning and Construction, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Defence. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed amendments and additions to the state budget may not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget. In the course of discussions on changes and additions to the state budget, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure outside the amounts set out in the amending and supplementing the state budget may be submitted provided that a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure is proposed at the same time in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. In this regard, I warn that only those amendments submitted under the Budget Law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for submission of the amendment is until the final debate. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines that amendments and budgets submitted cannot be voted upon before three days of the day of the debate can elapse. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21664	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives of several introductory words relating to the amendments and additions to the 2012 Budget. The Government has set three pillars of its economic measures and activities by proposing the 2012 budget. First in the part relating to economic growth, the second in the fiscal consolidation and the third in relation to reforms. It is only a brief matter of what has been accomplished and what has not been achieved. When we talk about the first measures of economic growth, it was a clear message that the government wanted an economic growth of 0.8% this year and that budget projections worked on economic growth with clear messages that we expect economic growth in part of state investment because we have estimated that the situation in the private sector is so difficult that if we manage to implement fiscal and financial consolidation of the private sector we will be satisfied, let alone that the private sector is going to invest. At the same time, we have shown by budget that budget spending will have a drop and also because wage growth, pensions and VAT rises are stopped and personal consumption will not contribute to economic growth. The assessment in 6 months shows that somewhere a consolidated decline in economic activity in 2012 is 1.7%, that bad trends continue in the third quarter, which means that this is an estimate of somewhere less than 2%, and that we see essentially slightly more significant changes in the fourth quarter, due to the start of state investments, due to the deliveries of some ships, and I would say certain changes in the metal and petrochemical industries that improvements can be expected in fact at the end of the quarter but it is evident that the decline will move according to our projections in changes and additions around 1.1, and with estimates that this could be more depending on how the results will show the last quarter of 2012. I'm trying to tell you where the failure is when we're talking about state investments. Obviously, the government overestimated the situation in a company where it has majority ownership and that the capacity of people working in these companies to conduct structural changes parallel to investments and was not a good estimate. Enough for Parliamentarians to look at the results of the start of the gas and realize how huge the problems in companies that we have essentially begun to restructure and waste too much time on structural changes are and that this is one of the reasons less investment activities. In Croatian railways where we see how much difficulty there is since the abolition of the Holding, useless train pulls that destroyed the system, accounting records, regular payments have been financially disrupted by all three organizations operating in HZ, where freight transport is like one that should be fully in market conditions without being able to survive without a new investor, a passenger who simply did not invest in any new means of transport that would allow him to operate better and infrastructure that was basically used to spill subsidies from the state budget instead of into new railways, to improve wages for the entire HZ system. It's something that stopped investment in HH. Likewise, when we talk about HEP as an institution that should have also continued the process of investment in transmission and distribution, while at the same time starting with larger projects, we see that a certain delay in the first months after the budget was adopted and that the investment process also did not begin in that part. In the highway system, we notice an enormous number of employees who are burdening business which are essentially the cause of a series of losses, the inability to regularly service debts and what is an incomprehensible reason that we were unable to invest in already agreed jobs. It's enough to mention the work on the track towards the Plates, not to mention the detours and other projects. In all that part of the crisis we are dealing with ourselves, we are dealing with restructuring, and unfortunately we have to say we are dealing with Croatian construction companies who obviously spent all the money in the previous two years of the crisis, although the prices agreed far above the prices that are being negotiated today and which were obviously the result, I would say more favourable market conditions, not economic prices and market prices that didn't help, and that these construction firms basically stopped a good part of the activity, left construction sites, did not fulfil obligations, and in parallel with the process of structural changes in our ownership, we started to solve private companies just for reasons to keep them in the business process. These are all reasons in which the delay in the state investment that has been delayed today has resulted that if we succeed we will succeed with ten or twenty percent more investment with state-owned companies than in 2011 in fact should have been almost twice as large to have positive movement and economic growth instead of economic downturn. At the same time, the government, which estimated that it was important for economic stability to move towards strengthening the private sector, the economy sector, has started with a number of changes, primarily reducing wages, reducing some parafiscal burdens, and all for reasons to be more competitive, in order to continue economic activity with competition on the domestic market, which means avoiding the negative impact of the European market. We just stopped at it, and we started with a battle to reduce capital, cost of capital, and that means bringing down interest and a battle for the insurance of funds that needed to serve the economy for the resolution of trade funds, so that was the reason we provided 6.7 billion along with the banking system and the people's bank for short-term financing, primarily for paying commitments to banks, according to the tax, according to creditors. At the same time, with HBOR’s recapitalisation, we provided investment funds for direct lending of some long-term activities at very low interest rates, not to mention trying to share risks in the private sector with the banking system. It therefore encourages the private sector and a very clear battle for state investment. But we see that in that part we have failed, that it is obviously the crisis that has kept the private sector at a low level of economic activity, and that we have lost a lot of time by working on structural changes in our ownership. What is also to say, this negative rate of economic growth did not have an impact on income and it is evident that the government had a conservative method when proposing the budget, which means that we relyed on existing revenues, on greater tax and tax discipline in charge with very clear messages that the battle for growth is one thing, but surely income is another. So despite this economic downturn, we have an increase in income compared to our projections of nearly 1.4 billion kuna. Otherwise, everyone would expect lower economic growth to mean lower income. When compared to the execution of 2011, then it's somewhere growing by nearly 3 billion kuna, slightly less than 3 billion kuna. And that's why when we come to that other part of fiscal consolidation, we try to tell what the government has achieved. When we look at fiscal consolidation we have two of our projects, it is to reduce the deficit and under number two maintain the fiscal rule, and that means nominal expenditure savings. When we talk about the fiscal rule in the final account, we will see that we will manage to maintain a 1% savings, although we cannot be satisfied with the nominal expenditure reduction. Why, for the simple reason that most of the nominal reduction we planned on the salaries of public and state services and budget users and here we have to say that in that part we failed to reduce expenditures. And in that part of the government failed to achieve savings, but just that time we launched an amendment to the Law on Representativeness and Part Two of a series of negotiations with which we partially managed to amend at least collective agreements in the state services, and now we are completing the negotiations on public services. Therefore, the government has determined that in this year's negotiations with the union partners it is trying to create assumptions for wage cuts in 2013. Since we have failed in the full amount of savings, what is important is to say this fiscal consolidation, we have improved with larger revenues. The higher revenues are primarily the result and discipline in the collection of contributions, which is not only important for strengthening revenue in the budget but also for the safety of employees because one of these contributions is also a pension contribution, and in particular the pension contribution of the second pillar. At the same time, we changed a series of rules to strengthen the collection of both VAT and individual excise duties. It is enough to mention that rigorous events towards importers overnight we could charge EUR 200 million, over one night, which only shows that the treatment of tax authorities was such that all those who were taxed could not import under special customs conditions, according to the quotas of products in Croatia, rather than pay taxes which was the usual practice. At the same time, we've published a list of debtors and we have effects on the bill. We started to deal with all those who misused the business creation function by leaving the debtors by opening new and attempts to work with new companies. Thus, these are the effects that, despite the fall, have achieved slightly less than 3 billion kunas of higher revenue. So with higher incomes and lower pay savings, we managed to stay at the estimated budget deficit of around 3% when we talk about the central budget itself. We have slightly larger deficits on extra budget users, i.e. water and roads, and all for reasons why we have increased the more significant investments we unfortunately cover with loans, so there are slightly increased expenditures. But the projected deficit, the planned fiscal discipline, and in that part it's preserved. So the government's policy not to raise the deficit, to control the deficit and to go and to cut expenditure is in 2012 through these changes and additions and achieved. What we need to say with all the difficulties we've had, we've achieved about billions of kuna nominal expenditures if we compare it to 2011. So our spending is somewhere around one billion and 100 million less than 2011. And that's why we estimate that in that second part of our program, the government was successful. It is essential that a good part of these savings started without reform, but by following all that is happening now you see that the government's reform programme has been updated through a series of bill proposals where we are essentially trying to stop expenditure growth through reform changes, and this is part of the government's programme that began to happen in the last quarter of this year where in some ways we will try to make sure that expenditures do not rise in the coming years. And now something more concrete when we talk about the figures themselves, to stay clear again in that part of what we've changed about income and what we've changed about expenditure. So when we talk about income growth, a little less than a billion is the result of an improved collection especially in contributions. At the same time, about 1.2 billion changes are important for managing our assets. It's a contracted fourth G network and 300 million kuna is a contract only with two houses, that operator. The money's been paid into the state budget. I also told you by rigorous customs treatment 70 million is more income than customs. The acquisition of the 480 million Croatian National Bank was also transferred to revenues. And what we've noticed is that the extraction for the HANDA agency that deals with oil and oil derivatives is well used to buy shares instead of keeping the reserves that we've estimated that we're obviously over-exploiting and burdening the price of the derivatives and assessing that it's unacceptable that the money that's supposed to be in the reserves goes into the stocks and that's why we decided this year to enroll HANDA's incomes in excise duties. But also a very clear policy that Handa too will no longer have its own revenue from the price, but the changes to the HANDA's income regulations will be budget revenues. It'll be excise revenues, and then we'll be giving depending on the HANDA programme for the needs of the oil reserve and the oil derivatives. But besides this, we also had a tax cut. 517 million small excise duties indicate that a smaller vehicle was spent. Therefore, the reason is the excise duty on fuel, but at the same time the decline in consumption of cigarettes, and in fact we have not coordinated excise duties on cigarettes according to the minimum excise duties in the European Union, which is the reason for slightly lower revenues. And when we look at the incomes that we've estimated we'll get from an administrative fee of 150 million, that's the 6% on TELECOM because we stopped charging at 1.7. That's about 150 million kuna somewhere. Which means that the realisation of the collection itself and some other shifts were more than less charged revenues in the excise system. I said the total expenditures are 1.1 billion less than 2011. But they're also bigger by 1.4 billion than they were by our budget. When we add salaries to the ministry and health care 1.6 billion is an excess in the estimated expenditure on salaries, and all for the reasons we have chosen to negotiate and not to take administrative measures related to the savings in salaries. Also, we have a higher expenditure of 416 million for interest rates which are otherwise the result of the 9.3 billion debts for shipbuilding and bond issued on the US market rather than on the European market. The subsidies are increasing by 380 million of which 345 should be paid if a contract is concluded with the buyer of Brodosplit. And about 150 million amounts are needed for social care given most of the users of individual social benefits. But also in addition to these excesses, we also have a reduction in expenditures that the spending reduction shows the situation in individual ministries. We managed to save against last year, not because we didn't pay the bills, but because the contracts of rent and space, the rent of software, the lying and everything else changed significantly. The ministry's more rational behaviour compared to last year has reduced expenditures of over 211 million. But what is not positive has given up many projects. But not because we needed money, projects unedited, unprepared, projects that were desires and were not reality at all. We won't talk from the projects of port administrations, from the projects that we have in our health care, education, which we have in the justice project. Contracted loans, even on some of the credits paid for by intercalary interest. The ministry's job this year was continuous talks on credit prolongation. And it's not just loans in the ministries, it's also with private taxpayers. I hope, therefore, that during this year, we have removed the shortcomings in the documentation, on the facilities, and, in fact, we will give up some of the objects because they are completely unacceptable, without economic justification and are more of a political objective than economically. And that's why, for a good part, over 500 million dropped out of the projects. This is why with these increases and reductions we have simply managed to achieve over 1.1 billion nominal savings, although inflation is estimated to be over 3.5% or about 3.5% this year. Even more than we predicted with the budget. The result of inflation is that we estimate that there is no investment in energy unless market prices and electricity and gas are realised and is now ahead of us and heating. There is also no investment in water unless acceptable prices for and water supply and disposal are reached. And all according to the agreement we signed with Europe where we can use the funds of pre-accession cohesion funds but of course if we bring the price of water to a European price. These are all the reasons why we came by price changes and because of which the inflation rate is higher. And at that increased rate, you can see that we have a nominal cost reduction. Two words and a deficit. The planned deficit for this year 2012 was below 10 billion kuna. As you can see, thanks to the higher incomes, we managed to stay on the deficit below 10 billion kuna. In the central budget itself, 2.9, a slightly increased deficit or 3%, I apologize, a slightly increased deficit in roads and Croatian waters due to the movement of investments, 0.5. Which means the forecast deficit for this year is about 3.5%. If we compare it to 2011 when the deficit was moving above 14 billion then we can conclude that it's quite a financial consolidation when in the year when we have price growth, when we have inflation growth, when we have a rate of decline above 1% that the deficit significantly decreases. Maybe for an introduction enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21665	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Five replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative of Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21666	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, you said at one point that no nominal expenditure reduction will be achieved, but a 1% savings will be achieved. I assume you refer to the fiscal responsibility law. What the figures here show, however, is that there will be no and that this rebalancing is not in line with the Law in fiscal responsibility because the expenditures resulting from the sum of the state budget and the extra budget funds are only 324 million kunas smaller than last year and the total savings measured by the share in GDP is about 0.5, using your GDP assessment. So I'm actually interested in how do you see the fact that the government has repeatedly advocated respect for the law and when it suits us and when it doesn't respond to you interpreting that this rebalancing is not in line with one of these important laws? My second remark is the question of the results of the collection of tax revenues. In fact, we see after lists of taxpayers have been published that tax debts between 31.3. and 31.7. have been reduced by 4.4 billion kuna and only on legal persons, so what is still on physical and what is still on crafts is still on top of that. Where's that $4.4 billion since it's a total reprogramme by the start of 9. A month of 2.6 billion kuna? where did these tax debts disappear because they were neither seen in the realisation of rebalancing revenue nor in the next budget, and just now the Director of the Tax Administration announced the large billions that could be collected from that base? So instead of tax hikes, it could have been the way the principal suggested, or it could have been something else. Where did the debtors go and where did these tax debts go?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21667	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21668	The fiscal rule will be in the final account and elaborated and seen then and what is gross national income, which is expenditure and what was expenditure in 2011. Our biggest problem you've left us is the shipyards 9.3 billion. 9.3 billion this year is an increased amount of public debt, but 9.3 billion are both someone's deficit and deficit for some years. And that's something that we don't decide at this point, that's being decided by EUROSTAT and that's what's going to have a huge impact on all our results. So we wait four months and then we'll see if the government really saved or didn't save and who was charged with 9.3 billion and whether the deficits last year were 114 billion. So if we look at the current statistics that only says that we've saved one billion then it's not 1% savings. But you'll allow us to start this year with bookkeeping of shipbuilding and public debt, but also through deficits. I therefore believe that in April of this month we will have a very, very clear picture that we will not create with our statistics, it will be created by the EU Commission if they decide what is the deficit in Croatia. And then we'll see if it's really the government that doesn't respect the laws or not, or the government that solves these problems?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21669	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21670	And the 4.4 billion that you say are gone are only the result of a portion of the registration and a fraction of the lower income based on the decline in GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21671	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić, and along the way you can answer from both place and from here. Where do you want it from?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21672	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said in your introduction that one of the main tasks of your government and your ministry was to keep the planned deficit at the level of 10 billion kuna, and that is why you tried and said you were able to maintain an existing level of expenditure of the state budget that grew a little faster than the revenues of the state budget were growing, and that is correct. So you managed to keep up to this plan, or to rebalance the state budget deficit at the level of 10 billion kuna, but therefore it was necessary to redistribute expenditure within the expenditure side of the budget, and therefore you had to cut the expenditure on non-financial assets at the level of 424 million kuna. If it is known that the expenditure on non-financial assets or that investment in non-financial assets is practically the realisation of projects were infrastructure projects or other projects, this means that it was necessary to keep the deficit from reducing investment in capital projects for around 424 million kuna. The same budget says that for the total projects financed from the state budget, one billion kuna was planned, meaning that you reduced investment in projects by 25% or better said this government stopped every fourth project in the Republic of Croatia. The question can be asked whether it is more economically justified to increase the deficit by 424 million kuna, to realise projects, to encourage the construction sector that you know on your knees, to enable a number of investments financed from the state budget or to insist on a 10 billion kuna deficit so that the government here in this House boasts that it has kept the deficit at the level planned. I think if I had to choose between those two variants to be more prone to that variant that would allow the realisation of projects and investments in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21673	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21674	Mr. Representative, I agree with you, but I must say that as Minister of Finance in 10 contacts with the World Bank, the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, the European Investment Bank, the Central Bank of the Council of Europe in some 10 meetings I was the man who was most ashamed of myself. And you know why, billions of kuna loans that we can't withdraw not for saving but for making them irresponsible and unrealistic. All these loans have already been recorded by the seventh schedules of execution deadlines. We're in no condition to execute them. They don't have the files, they don't have the papers, they don't have the simple people who can carry them out. There's no need to pick them up, you know very well who they are. In these years 2012, the largest part of these loans should have been concluded. Because of that shame I've suffered because it's a shame when you contract a loan, pay an interkalar interest, and you're not able to... credit but not because of the incompetence of today's government. Then hold 5.6 co-ordination meetings with all ministers to make a decision to give up, from which projects, and to make a decision that we will complete and re-apply to the bank, and perhaps nine times to extend the deadlines for the realisation of the loan. But I believe that much like what I've experienced this year has been experienced by my predecessors. The loans are therefore agreed and are not withdrawn and the answer is very, very simple, not for saving but for bad projects. That's where we're trying to get them this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21675	Thank you very much. The next third replica and respected representative, Đuro Popiac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21676	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as far as shipbuilding is concerned, of course it's not true that the last government left you 9.5 billion in debt, that's what all Croatian governments and yours were vice presidents in. The Parliament's past assembly passed a law in which all guarantees are transferred to public debt, passed by the government. And you, of course, had the duty to continue, but you didn't start any restructuring programme that was adopted by the European Commission and the Competition Agency, and that was, that 9.5 billion was part of the restructuring programme that should be part of the Croatian state. Keep going. You said that the Handa instead of in reserve kept the money in stock. When the Croatian Oil and Oil Reserve Agency stopped providing oil and oil derivatives reserves. I don't remember it being for my term of office. And you're also saying that if there's some extra money in HANDA, and it's being prepared because of investments that should have gone into its own oil and oil reserves, therefore its own reserve capacity to invest in the Croatian capital market is insecure. You send such a message to this conclusion. So, the question is whether you are actually because of the only motive to fill the budget that has obviously reached where the money is and thus endangered the natural and security of the oil and oil reserves and thus interrupted the investments of the HandA in your own facilities for the storage of oil and oil derivatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21677	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21678	The coalition government in 2000-2003 carried out a shipbuilding recovery of 8.1 billion and recovered losses. 9.3 billion came into existence since 2003, so much so that we know in what period 9.3 billion came into existence. In addition, for the implementation of shipbuilding restructuring with new owners, 3.5 billion more will be invested, 3.5 billion more. Only Split Shipyard if a billion 260 million are contracted. $260 million in extra money. So you can talk about the former government, you're just talking, but the former government has rehabilitated both shipbuilding and agricultural complex and has rehabilitated healthcare, and this government in the new coalition system is doing the same thing again, trying to resuscitate the dubiosis that remained after eight years of government. So much for shipbuilding, because we'll hear more about it. As for HANDA, in 2009, HANDA bought 26% of JANAF shares. If it's called a stock reserve, if it's called a stock of derivatives, then it's not... Therefore, you are making a decision to purchase the shares of JANAF, then we can only consider the money of HANDA or returned to the citizens because it could have been lower excise duty or put into the budget, so it could have been lower deficit if it didn't have to be for derivatives. But we're wondering why he bought someone JANAF shares, don't make a comment, it might be bad, but Handa's business isn't buying shares, and HANDA's money can't be used for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21679	Thank you very much. We're going with the fourth replica and the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21680	Thank you very much. I don't think it's good to spill this much bile at first, especially if it's arguments. Mr. Minister, as Deputy Prime Minister and the 8.1 billion-dollar recovery was a loan that increased public debt. You didn't pay for it from your current income since 2003, so let's get this straight. The second thing, these 9.3 billion you're talking about in shipyards, you know very well that these are guarantees that have been issued over the past few years. These guarantees have always been presented to this High House when it comes to budgeting. Therefore, they are no surprise to anyone and in the restructuring and shipbuilding programme on behalf of the maritime goods and State compensation has taken over this part. As it will be kept statistically, will it suddenly go to the deficit of the state budget because it is not a deficit of the state budget this year, but will agree with EUROSTAT for the sake of the truth. Therefore, the 9.3 billion is neutral as regards the 2012 deficit. And we can throw a ball at each other, but it's obvious that in three years you spent almost as much as we did at eight. Unfortunately, the shipyards are in the situation we're in. And we can slap each other all we want. And as for the investment of Mr. Minister, the primary school in Novi Čič is no investment of the EBRD, nor of this, nor of that, but an investment has been drawn to reduce the cost of the Ministry of Education because the situation in the budget is so. And whoever knows the budget a little better so when he reads it, then you'll see that you've peeled off everything you could peel off to stay in some of the spending frames you've given yourself. And the other thing about the deficit is that there has not been an enormous tax increase, that there has been a rise in the prices of the most basic items used by a single household and therefore the VAT has not yet further increased your deficit by a billion kuna, and that we do not tell you about the HANDA and HNB incomes that were not in 2012. So, I think that today and during next year's budget debate, we should simply talk about that the economic policy that you're going to start is guilty and that must be done. lead a new economic policy if we want to save the situation in the budget. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21681	Thank you. Replica response, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21682	There's no point in leading the polemics, but for learning. 9.3 billion when you make a public debt, it has its own interest, and that interest now pays the budget every year. When it comes to guarantees, then nothing is paid, because guarantees are paid financially and kept below the lines and have no impact on the deficit, they have no influence unlike when you now have debts on which you pay interest. But obviously, interest is not an important factor to you, but it's important enough to note that you've brought the interest rate close to nearly 10 billion, which means they have a lot of importance to that part. And the rest. Maybe the school as you said in Chicago could have been completed, but that's a small amount. And what about the port of Zadar, what about the law of... What about the tax administration building you don't need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We want to talk about it, about these projects that are left because they're prescribed, which we're now canceling, reducing or prolonging where far larger sources are. So it wasn't a problem of ineffectiveness and a desire to hide rather than a contracted project.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21683	Thank you very much. And the fifth replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21684	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I will speak in this replica much less professionally than my colleagues who were government ministers will speak in a way that compares part of my budget debate for this year with the budget rebalancing that is ahead of us. For example, at that time I personally pointed out that I felt that I was missing 350 million kuna only in the positions of the Ministry of Science and Education. I warned that there was a lack of funds for interest, but also that the funds, for example, in public enterprises that you expected at the beginning of the year, were reduced by around 150 million kuna. So I refer to that part of your exposure where you're talking about wage cuts, so as a reform that's partly failed. I would like to remind you that by reducing any segment belonging to the salary, it is not listed and is not highlighted in the government's work programme for this year. It was evident from the budget that the funds were missing. However, wages now show that this deficit is far and far greater despite all the measures you have taken in the meantime. So it turns out I was right when I said the expenses were planned. At the time, I was talking about about a million and a half kuna, certainly warning about interest funds. In conclusion, I would like to say and remind you that there have been announcements from the government that there will be no rebalancing. Rebalance is ahead of us, but I also want to remind you that it is often offensive that the last government worked, that we ended up last year without rebalancing, that the expenditures were frozen, that so frozen expenditures were buried four billion and slightly more pension expenditures, to conduct elections, etc. etc. And, of course, for the pension interest. If it hadn't been for the rebalancing and that here we had such minimal but still economic growth And despite the announcements as you said yourself from 0.8% this year, unfortunately we record a fall... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21685	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21686	When we talk about salaries that, the savings were not achieved far more than you thought would be missed. So over 1.6 billion we had to rebalance in favour of pay. But why? Because the government's policy was very clear. The government's policy was to elect out of wages to throw out extras. Soon you will witness what happens to wages and what the government is struggling with. Only education we have 146 types of supplements, 146. You'll see how useless these supplements aren't even supposed to be, which makes huge differences of irregularities, but you know a good part of these supplements is agreed through collective agreements. Yeah, that was a surprise for us because otherwise the coefficients... I'm sorry, it turns out that the government manages 50% of the salary, only the coefficients. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] No, it's not true, it's not true. Terms, special conditions, accessories are 50%. So where do you see it? It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. It only happens in Croatia. Such collective agreements sign means the government's fear of unions, secret union deals. Yeah, it's our job to back off. ... Yeah, yeah, we'll talk about those supplements. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We have 50% salary in addition to working conditions. Well, it's nowhere in the world more than 10%. Yeah, that's the problem, and that's what we have to solve. And just one thing, the former government had no rebalancing but it had a series of changes. This government has authorized itself that only up to 5% can change the budget, and everything else will be together with you because it is not afraid to look into the face and take accounts. You gave yourself far greater rights and you shouldn't have gone to rebalancing. Don't let me tell you about the numbers. So, we just changed the rule. We want to give Parliament the right to decide on the budget, not the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21687	Thank you very much, Minister. We have completed the replicas and answers, do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? Yeah. Please, Committee Chairman Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21688	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 6th session held on 21 November 2012 discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 15 November 2012. The Committee held the hearing as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the part which provides the means for the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, military and civilian people with disabilities and veterans of war. According to the proposal, changes and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012, revenue increases by 1.4 billion kuna and expenditures by 1.5 billion kuna leading to an increase in the 95 million kuna deficit. Most of it is about the distribution of funds and the smaller part of the revenues from other sources. The deficit would remain within 10 billion kuna, i.e. slightly increased by 95 million kuna and would be around 3% of GDP. The funds aimed at achieving the rights of Croatian defenders in the position of the Ministry of Defence have been reduced by 59 million kuna, permanent rights for 31.6 million kuna, compensation for participants and victims of World War II victims for 20.5 million kuna, allowances for civilian people with disabilities for 1.7 million kuna, one-time rights 3.3 million kuna, funds for recruiting defenders for 1 million kuna and other. Reductions, i.e. savings, are the result of reductions in the number of staff of the ministry, a small number of supply users, a natural outflow of users, the compensation of participants in World War II, a reduction in the costs of the training of medical commissions and a reduction of the requests received for assistance in employment. In the debate followed by the committee members, they delivered an opinion on the need to redistribute funds within the Ministry of Defence because more and more defenders living in difficult and impossible conditions and the redistribution should primarily refer to the increase in funds for single cash assistance and to the increase in housing funds. It is noted that the total reduction in the resources for the rights of persons from the Committee's work, namely Croatian defenders, war victims and civil and military disabled wars in the budget rebalancing is 140 million kuna, i.e. 2.1%. It is about reducing pensions at HZMO's position for Croatian defenders by 53.2 million kuna, NOR fighters by 16.4 million kuna and for members of the Croatian Homeland Army 10 million kuna. Reduction of compensation for defenders of 8 million kuna at the position of the Ministry of Health and the reduction of funds for residential care and Storms of the Homeland War of 210 thousand kuna at the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning. It is incomprehensible to increase funds to support 50 million kuna political parties and to finance the Office of the former President of the Republic while reducing funds for single-money assistance to defenders and housing of disabled and family members of the dead Croatian defenders. After the debate was held, the committee proposed by a majority of votes, 7 votes for and 4 votes against the Croatian Parliament to propose amendments and additions to the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21689	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21690	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament shall, on the basis of its competence referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 24th session held on 20 November 2012 on the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 together with the relevant acts. You also heard the opening statement from the finance minister, so I'm just going to brief you on what was discussed on the board and on the points of view. The debate asked for an explanation in which transfers of 550 million kuna funds to the state budget by the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Banks of Oil Products - HANDA will be made. The opinion has been expressed that this rebalancing of the state budget does not detail the transactions in respect of the given guarantees of shipbuilding is 9.3 billion kuna. A question has also been raised regarding resolving the problem of restructuring of Croatian railways, which reduces subsidies, and media reports suggest that Croatian railways have problems maintaining liquidity. The debate pointed to the fact that the total increase in budget resources for the implementation, while the funds in the specific items of enforcement and litigation were reduced to zero. The debate also pointed out that the proposed rebalancing of the state budget provided for fiscal consolidation which was lagging behind in the previous period and retained budgetary and overall macroeconomic stability. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to vote 6 votes in favour and 2 votes against the Croatian Parliament to propose amendments and additions to the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 with all decisions attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21691	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Representatives of other working bodies shall not report. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Dragica Zgrebec, vice president of the House. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21692	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The state budget in one year is either based or is the result of the objectives set out as political objectives in one year. What were the objectives in 2012? consolidation of the economy and building the foundations for investment and economic growth. The situation has been seen as a multi-year subinvestment and economic downturn. Financial and tax discipline, or consolidation, is a high indivisibility, insolvencies of a large number of business entities that have risen to over 40 billion kunas, non-payment of tax and other government benefits, most of which are invulnerable, which will have to be written off and which has also exceeded 50 billion kuna. The balance of state finances and the reduction of deficits below 10 billion kuna, and the situation found is a constant growth of deficits financed by an increasingly unfavourable debt, the inability to pay off the annuities required by the reprogramme under new more unfavourable conditions. The following is the adoption of state spending in the real border, and the cost reduction is not a savings in the state budget but rather a rational behaviour that must be when we have economic growth, so taxpayers have the right to behave rationally with the funds paid to the state budget and only when we have both tax and financial discipline and the rational spending of tax resources we also have the possibility of reducing the burden on taxpayers. What were the measures to achieve these objectives? We've discussed a large number of legal proposals here, and I'm only going to bring up a few. When it comes to redistributing the economy and investment bases, a reduction in the health contribution should be mentioned here by two percentage points as a reduction in the labour price of the gross labour price, then a further reduction in the part of the parafiscal fees relating to the monumental rent to the contribution to the general services of the forest, for the water contribution and the like. There is a tax exemption for reinvested profits which, unfortunately, can be used very rarely because we do not have the right investments. There is also an increase in the limit for taxpayers of income tax there is an opportunity to re-programme tax debts up to three years and twice this year, that is, when it comes to financial discipline, it is the introduction of payment deadlines but also a pre-profit settlement that will significantly reduce the costs or long-term bankruptcy procedures of economic operators. For restructuring and permanent crafts in HBOR and, together with business banks, nearly 7 billion kunas have been secured in which HBOR takes risks unlike previous years between 40 and 50%, are increased from the state budget of payment of funds for core capital and, at the same time, under more favourable conditions, the previous programmes are reprogrammed, in particular, models A,... plus. For investments in tourism, agriculture, industry, energy and environmental protection in HBOR, the interest rate is reduced by a further 1%, which was in the previous two years. HBOR funds are relocated investments that have been followed by grants through all components of the IPA programme, which have also been going on in the previous two years. And based on planned state investments, mainly through state-owned enterprises and energy and transport, an optimistic rate of 0.8% has been designed, which is not calculated in the budget, but we see that it has remained only optimistic. What happened to financial and tax consolidation? Compensation for redistribution of the economy of these two percentage points for health contributions required a greater, unfortunately, tax burden on citizens through an increased VAT rate by two investment points. But it should be said that the long-term growth policy seen in our example in Croatia cannot be achieved only by consumption of both private and state-owned investments which are investments with a second period of return on capital but by the growth of the economy and especially by the private economy and new employment. So, the key to getting out of the crisis in each country is private investment because they bring profitable programmes, investment programmes and new employment. At the same time, income tax deductions have been increased to compensate for this reduction in purchasing power, at least in one segment. Income tax classes have been redeployed, VAT rates are reduced to 10% for certain goods and services, and pensions are re-coordinated twice a year. When we talk about the balance of state finances, then a number of measures should also be listed, among them the inability to pay wages without payment of contributions. Health and pension contributions are citizens' income, not budgets, because it is used by citizens in one part for pensions, in another part for their health care of themselves and their families. The reduction in the mass of salaries for state budget users in the section relating to the different types of compensation the minister here spoke of somewhat wider, then the introduction of tax discipline by publishing irregular salaries with the previous possibility that they could reprogramme their commitments up to 3 years and a nominal reduction in expenditure in 2012 and a reduction of deficits below 10 billion kuna. The results have not been fully achieved, so today we are talking about rebalancing. The fact is that the macroeconomic data in 2012 are bad, they are negative, but the consequences of, among other things, the long-term avoidance of effective measures to remove bad business entities and state spending are in real terms, especially in the last three years of the major economic crisis in the world and in Croatia that has long been denied. I've already said something about why it is necessary to go into rebalancing, but the timing has extended the negotiations on the modification of collective agreements and the preparation of major projects for the realisation of planned state investments, which for objective reasons. That's what the minister was talking about. Based on these reasons, there has been an increase in staff expenditure of about 1.1 billion, interest of 916 million kuna, for the restructuring of shipbuilding to an increase of 345 million kuna this year, but also the difference for the payment of the last war of debt to pensioners of 100 million kuna missing in the Pension Fund. This led to business expenditures being broken down by around 1.9 billion compared to planned ones, so when it comes to total expenditures, but also revenues have been increased by around 1.4 billion kuna, and due to delays in investments for which late payment programmes will be around 420 million kunas in the following year. The deficit for 2012 was also slightly increased and rebalanced at 9.985 billion kuna. Rebalance is determined at a time when the annual implementation can be planned to a large extent, and such technical rebalancing will be the most likely final achievement of the 2012 state budget. The SDP Club will accept changes and additions to the national budget for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21693	Thank you very much. We have three replicas reported for your presentation. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Drmic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21694	Dear fellow Members, I have been very careful, I have tried very carefully to listen to your presentations, and I can say in one hand that I feel sorry for you for having received a party task to try on behalf of the party to defend this draft budget rebalance. The fact you yourself said that in this year's budget, this rebalance is not being spared. Generally known is the folk to be saved when they have one. Today there is no, not only is there no state, there are no citizens, and today in this country there is every day in every house, on the street, in the company one struggle for a naked life, a fight for survival and the fight against hunger. The fact is, there was money before this crisis that we were hit with, but at the time it wasn't saving, it wasn't saving, it wasn't saving, it was acting like a wealthy billionaire. So, at the beginning of this crisis, we've never seen the state run any kind of analysis of why this crisis and recession occurred. The fact is that this crisis and recession were blamed in the first place by the state, in the second place by the bank and on the third large capital and various market-based mechanics. It must not have been blamed by Croatian citizens, and it is obvious by the government's policy that this government plans to come out of this crisis and recession, patch up the gaps in the budget precisely on the burden of Croatian citizens. You're saying the way out of the crisis is private investment. No private investment, people are lucky today that the bank doesn't take their house, they're happy to have something to eat, and private investments aren't in any future planned. Believe me, I can't even see them on TV anymore what they used to be. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna have to hang up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21695	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21696	Every MP is actually proud to have the right on behalf of his club to state the opinion of his club, so so am I, so it wasn't a difficult task for me. When I said that there is no need to save in the budget then I think the budget must be so rationally drawn up that it should not be saved and when you have high annual economic growth you have to plan rationally and very economically, so if it is possible to reduce the tax rates to citizens, or to all those taxpayers who are paying into the state budget. And when I say that private entrepreneurs can only get out of a crisis in any country, that's true. The private will invest in that program that will bring him the biggest profit. He will not invest in roads or railways or infrastructures, it is the task of the state because the return of funds is long and there is no profitability in such projects. And private entrepreneurs will invest when they trust that theirs, that the economic policy of a government, or the policy of a state, will be such that they are safe and stable in their business.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21697	Thank you very much. Another replica and respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21698	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Zgrebec, the main reason for this budget rebalancing is the lack, i.e. the lack of economic growth of 0.8%, of the government's projections. You also mentioned a reduction in the contribution and that, accordingly, there had to be an increase in the general tax or VAT. Not just that. Due to the reduction in contributions we warned this in the health system was missing from 1.4. It seems to me that a reduction in the contribution of billions and 600 million kuna. I will remind you that we and I in my debate then stressed that healthcare will lack funds to pay salaries in the hospital sector for 12 months this year which proved true. We have proposed here Amendment 3 that the item of the hospital limit increase by 510 million kuna and watch miracles now in the budget rebalancing is just increasing that item by 510 million kuna in order to be able to pay wages in the health system. But which still required a reduction in the contribution rate for the health system, so somewhere around a billion and 600 million. Now you're rebalanced 500 million, there's about a billion and a hundred left. Over the past year, hospitals generated a new debt of one billion kuna. Therefore, the reduction in labour price resulted in a new debt of €1 billion and what is very important is a reduction in the level and availability of the health system because we see an enormous increase in the waiting list, and one of the reasons for the increase, i.e. a reduction in the contribution of the lack of investment by 206 million kuna in the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21699	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21700	Mr. Milinovic, the policy of this government that we promoted, and when we were an opposition, it was to eliminate unfair health contributions only to those who work and use it all in the state. Therefore, 15% should be aware of the real frameworks that will be paid by those who work, and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia use it and must be covered by other tax revenues. You yourself said it was now secured by wage rebalancing because it wasn't enough from a health contribution. It is secured from other sources that are revenues from the state budget. And surely by the end of this term, we will be aware of the rate of health contributions paid only on salaries and, in part, to one part of pensions, in real terms, and there will be no such high rate that has almost leveled with the pension rate in one period.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21701	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21702	Dear Mr. President, colleague Zgrebec. Sukus, the essence of all of our stories in my opinion is this. You said that one of the basic tasks was the consolidation of the economy, so you're instructions and other goals, so you said how you did it, so you listed all these measures that you stated with the conclusion that you consolidated all this together that you wanted to say that you should have consolidated. You, this government not only didn't consolidate the economy, but it deconsolidated it, it crashed it with one expression and wrote it home. The government has not created a consolidation of the economy, because it does not understand the problem. That's number one. The number two crisis exit strategies are gone, has not appeared with it or has formulated it so far, is not in sight. And number three, there's no courage for any more serious moves. It's a shame, because the Croatian people, Croatian citizens and opposition, and all of them, because they're breaking in before us, fear has somehow entered the people because of unemployment and everything was ready for those cuts. You didn't do it, you missed your chance, there's no way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21703	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21704	Mr. Representative, after three years of crisis and the collapse of business entities in Croatia, you can make a statement like this. Well, no government, nor will this government consolidate the economy. The economy will consolidate every entity for itself, but the government will take measures that will go in favour of being consolidated, so I said that there was more favourable restructuring funds than in HBOR's business banks. The tax liability reprogramme shall be made possible up to three years by such business entities which owe tax liabilities. It shall ensure, before a bankruptcy settlement, that part of their obligations can also be written off if they have a programme which is a market programme and a market product. So they'll make a consolidation each in their own company, each in their own company. The government can't do that to a private. But the government must ensure the conditions for him to do so, and for three years you said there is no crisis in Croatia. So how can you even say something like this about a government that hasn't been in power for a year?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21705	Thank you very much. We're going to discuss the club representations. It is now up to the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21706	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for this rebalance of the state budget is contained in the sentence that everything that should not fall. The former governor said everything fell down that could fall. I say it all fell down that shouldn't fall, especially industrial production. To be scared means to be defeated. This power was more than any other able to scare the citizens and achieve Pir’s victory. There were no days without ministers, from now on the former first Deputy Prime Minister Radiir Cacic, even to Finance Minister Slavko Linic did not scare the people with black forecasts. Instead of the people being brave, they feared him. Imagine how they would end battles and those in the Homeland War to scare their soldiers to death in front of every deadly action of warlords. We will fire 5,000 workers, we need to fire 25,000 workers, we have even harder days ahead of us, in 2013, we have an even bigger crisis waiting for us than some of the messages the government has forced and those citizens who have no use for. She drove their money into banks, foreign banks on savings, and she could and had to encourage citizens to invest in real estate now that they're cheaper than banks in foreign countries' industries. All the successful countries have been pulling out of the crisis by encouraging general consumption and reducing taxes by creating an optimistic, rather than a depressing climate. Before us is the budget rebalance, the truth is the first, for 2012 for 2 basic reasons. The first is a decline in GDP and a slight but secure move from recession to crisis, and the second is a non-adjustment to real state in the country. Incomes are less than expected, and expenditures could have been different. As is the difference in countries whose authorities have entered the war with the crisis. And one of the main reasons or causes of deepening the crisis is insufficient consumption. It suggests, however, modern economic theorists say, that there has been a serious disturbance in the distribution of wealth. Too many poor people have nothing to spend, and a small part of the rich or rich start saving. Unless the state stimulates them not to save but to spend as Germany did. Croatia did the opposite. She did everything to get as few citizens as possible to invest their money in the industry. By the middle of this year, Croatian citizens have again stored foreign banks for the custody of 194 billion kuna. In just a month, these foreign banks have encased Croatian citizens for 4 new billion kunas. In Croatia, deposits per capita amount to almost 5,000 euros. Who benefits most from keeping Croatian citizens' money in banks? Foreign owners. They withdrew the most money from Croatia, even 8.4% of GDP. And the government boasts in the draft budget rebalancing by reducing the state budget by 1.2% year-on-year. Banks in Croatia, foreign banks, are far more successful than the state and citizens. They are more successful in impoverishing the state and the citizens. The fact that citizens deposited 4 billion kunas into banks in just a month, and banks from Croatia withdrew 8.4% of GDP is evidence that the government is running the wrong policy. The state, which ultimately means 4.5 million citizens, can be thrown out of balance by a billion broken kunas while at the same time we are calmly observing that from Croatia, undeservedly, they amount to ten times the amount. Of course, foreign bankers. As we predicted at the beginning of the year, an increase in value added tax from 22% to 25% caused negative effects. After the VAT hike, prices began to jump with a stick, which was a sign along with the black forecasts of government leaders to move money into banks. Only consumption dropped by 6% in September. The fall in construction works is already expressed by two figures. Exports of goods are twice as low as imports, so almost 10 billion euros worth of goods have been imported into Croatia in the first seven months. And while on the one hand, part of the citizens are saving more and more, on the other hand, the black-grey one is growing more and more of those citizens who have bankrupted. As many as a quarter of a million Croatian citizens have blocked accounts. By down to 39% on average, the share of the average net salary has dropped to 39%. Which means that the average pensioner with an average pension of 2182 kuna lives below human dignity. The government resorted to budget rebalancing because tax revenues have dropped 568 million kuna. The largest incursion of 516 million kunas records the revenue from excise duties as it has been reduced, as well as in the proposal for amending and supplementing the state budget, economic activity. It's not reduced. It looks like we're completely inactive. Although VAT has increased from 22% to 25%, the collection of that tax will fail. The biggest shot in the leg with the non-taxation of banks thus the government proves its neoliberal nature and the essence is the denial of 150 million kuna in the name of compensation for providing services for mobile electronic and telecommunications networks. Prime Minister Milanovic still needs to accept Ivica Mudrinic's appeal to the manager who heads employers, i.e. capitalists, to the bankers, telecommunications profiteers, Todoric, the Tedeskia place this government as partners. That's where we'd end up. Without us, you can't say Mudrinic, which is offered both to the right and left, because he is only interested in profit, but not the well-being of Croatian citizens. There are also good in the sea budget figures, although more and more unemployed employers have paid almost a billion kuna in the state register more than planned. This is the result of a regulation which prevents payment of salaries without payment of contributions, which is certainly one of the biggest shifts. And where it was actually spent above or beyond schedule, in state services. Salaries penetrated the unreal budget for a billion and 100 million kunas, but thus went on material expenditures, such as heating and intellectual services, which were often a corruption tower. Financial expenditures have also been increased by 416 million kunas, which cost interest on long shipyards and bond interest issued on the US market. And without a doubt, we will have to issue more bonds or take more credit, debt and debt from this government of generations of Croats, thanking that she has done a good job by borrowing, the planned lack of the state budget and the one from 2012 and the one from 2013, and each of the following will be compensated, and in order to make a different new debt and to sell everything someone wants to buy. Nothing he seems to be able to master successfully, because a hundred times we've heard from the Government of the State is a bad master, which, of course, is a lie. The failure comes to money by selling out, and successful, I mean the managers of other us not so far away foreign countries money earns and... And what are we going to do and how are we going to patch up the budget holes when we sell out everything? [[You don't understand.]] What we're going to do when we monetize the roads, and the monetization is actually just a synonym for failure, ingenuity and cowardice, like this government today when it was in opposition was talking to HDZ when it just made an intention to put highways in a concession. What do we do when we sell Croatia's insurance? What will we do when we sell the last Croatian bank? What do we do when we sell the share in Podravka? What are the next companies in line? What are we going to do then? One such hole, the government represents today, with an indication contained in this document that the future will be sold out. Not ours, but the future of our children and our grandchildren. Yeah. We are convinced that in 2013, it will be even more difficult, and even worse for the citizens of Croatia. We know why. Because no other solution has been offered in a year than borrowing, sale and monetization of anything valuable. Instead of reforms and fundamental changes, we watch one and the same already-exposed film in which the main role is rich and untouchable, and secondary second-class roles are divided into unprotected, to all those living from their work. That's the '90s scenario. No one could dream. Today, unfortunately, we live it, and we live it more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21707	Thank you, Your Honor. Seven replicas have been reported for your exposure. Let's get this straight. He is the first respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21708	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Vuksic, you said in your introduction that the main reason for making the budget rebalancing lies in the fact that everything is falling, everything fell that should not have fallen, and I would have added the extension of that sentence and everything growing that should not have grown. In fact, inflation is growing, taxes are rising, prices are rising, energy prices are rising, imports are increasing, etc., etc. The fact is that the budget should therefore be rebalanced, but the real and basic reason for the budget rebalance lies in the fact that the government has not implemented the reforms it has announced. I have here in front of me a government programme for the 2011-2015 period in which the Government programme announced reforms, such as structural reforms in Croatian society, such as reform of the pension system, reform of the health system, such as public service wages, such as reform of local and regional self-government. So it was precisely the absence of such reforms that led to the lack of reduced expenditure in the state budget, that these fundamental objectives were not achieved, but that the government did not implement reforms this year, that would not only reflect this budget that we must rebalance, but what is even worse, the more drastic fact that this year has not been approached by reforms in Croatian society will only then lead to problems in the next budget. I don't know, and I would like the government to explain to me today that, even though the lack of reforms in Croatian society are planning the next budget, the budget for the next year on economic growth of 1.8%, when no major reform in Croatian society has been achieved, and when everything the government has drawn well in its work programme for the next term of office has not been implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21709	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21710	Dear colleague Bacic, yes. You shouldn't grow everything that grows, you forgot to list what's most basic, which grows and shouldn't grow, and that's unemployment. Unemployment is the cause of a lot of things, not to say everything, because actually the purpose of everything is to produce where people work, to achieve that constitutional right to work. This constitutional right to the work of the Social Democratic government was first to be secured. So she was supposed to make sure that as many people as possible get a job. It was precisely the measures it had taken that cut personal consumption, and thus it was cut down to any possibility of waking up industry and any possibility of falling unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21711	Thank you very much. The next replica, secondly respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21712	You asked your colleague what we would do when we sold what could be sold from Croatia, Podravka, Croatian Waters, the forest, so this government would probably come up with a tax tax and introduce it anyway. And now imagine a Croatian citizen about a year ago when he went to pre-election meetings and decided to call all political parties' pre-election parties and decided to give the vote to the SDP. He took that plan 21 and read over there how the VAT will be reduced. It is likely that the Croatian citizen and voter had in mind the experience of Germany that reduced VAT to increase consumption to a little to increase industrial production growth, and would increase gross national income to start the economy. Unfortunately, the locals from the Croatian government turned the story around. They pounded all taxes on citizens' pockets, impoverished units of local self-government, led to the fall of Croatian citizens' standards, led to an increase in unemployment and did not trigger the Croatian economy. Only 15 million kunas are foreseen for the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship crafts in that known law, which stands to divide it into three statistical regions in this state budget. For NGOs and organisations, as well as for the financing of certain weeks of certain national minorities, this state budget of 20 million kuna is financed. These are the measures of this Croatian government. So I hope I've given you an answer as soon as we sell everything. We'll put a tax on taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21713	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21714	Thank you, dear colleague, for giving me the answer. Here, I'll try to expand that answer. What exactly are we going to sell out when we sell out everything? I already said the same question in the discussion asked Mr. Cacic when he was in opposition and then he said, he gave the current authority then that if the roads in the concession not only sell the future because they will no longer be able to manage future Croatian governments, our children and our grandchildren will not benefit from it, but will also sell development, he will stop another government from developing Croatia's industry. Here comes the power that was previously in the opposition, but it seems that the change has turned 180%. Now what wasn't good before has become good. Good is bad, bad is good. And that's the same answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21715	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21716	Thank you. A colleague Vuksic, if anything is safe after these released replicas, is that Croatia is a very rich country, and you really can't see where such fear comes from besides so many misunderstood and unproven messiahs and geniuses that when they get the chance to perform miracles. You see, you can see how this government frightened the people. Why scare the people? Why don't you lie to her? It's not fear, it's true. Well, anyway, it's like you get patients, you're a surgeon, I don't know what some doctor is, and then you convince him that he's healthy, and you think that's why he's gonna get better. And he's not better off if a man knows what's wrong with him and you know what the tribune is doing to get him out of a situation that's normal. Normally we're fake Social Democrats, the government is lying to this lie, so I'd say you're false critics. It's my experience. We hear that from your club all the time. There's so many of these arbitrationists that I say talented people who know the way out, and there's a stupid government who doesn't know what it's gonna be like to be a miracle. And by that we are indeed a strange people. Ideological consciousness is a form of twisted consciousness. All right, everybody's got their own ideologies. One of the theorists called Karl Mannheim, where he spoke of free floating intelligence as he called it "Fraischwebende intelligence" so this government can't play free floating intelligence, but you can. And it's an honor to do it successfully. This government is working as a black miner in a coal mine from which all the sucked society has been destroyed and now after a year it seems to be guilty of everything that's been going on in the last eight years. Well, I think that criticism is hard to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21717	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21718	Dear Mr. Jurevic, I fully agree with you this government is not to blame for everything that happened back 8 years, but we are now talking about the rebalancing of the government's budget not of those former governments. It is certain that this government has not been able to do so for a full year to live as it is living in Sweden where the standard is also falling. And let's not let the standard fall to us the way it falls to them. Our job is to be a fierce critic. What else did you do in the opposition? Why don't you behave, why don't you give others the right to criticise? We are for what we can do for what we can do other than criticize, and we criticise you rightly for doing what you said was bad when you were in opposition. I'm sorry. I'm sorry we have a memory. What would you like to do, make a lobotomy over us? Therefore, we are not false critics, we are fierce critics and we will be fierce critics. That's why we entered the Parliament. So long as we don't take power, it just looks like we'll get to power sooner than we expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21719	Thank you very much. I won't comment. The fourth replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21720	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, you mentioned constantly that this government should actually give optimism, that it should be as in the military that officers must when sending their soldiers give optimism. So this government is firstly a democratic government and has no military structure, and neither are citizens of soldiers, nor are we in Croatia at war. This government is coalition before the elections, the coalition was telling the truth, clearly saying it would be very difficult, that the recession was not promising. I don't know if your statements of populistism are essentially your fear of the people with the situation because this government is telling the truth and not sending false messages. It sends messages to optimism, but in a way that measures the instruments and laws we adopt in this Croatian Parliament are not messages but concrete measures that need to revive the economy, competitiveness of the economy and open up a space for employment. That's what this government is doing, and not what we had in 2009 saying there's no recession, so that's why we're in good shape and we're in trouble today because it didn't work out and react the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21721	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21722	... A respected colleague liked someone to explain to me the word populism that you use so much to once make a definition of pulsism. [[You don't understand.]] You can see it's nothing negative. I don't know if you worked for eight years when HDZ was in power with pure pulsism. You were then recordrs in populistism. I think like yesterday when Mr. Mlakar said we were talking about terms and words that we don't understand and we don't even know what it is that you talk so often on this right side or ahead of us, below us that Croatian Labourists use populist rhetoric. If that's what we're saying, we're populists and we're not ashamed of it. Yeah, you say you're not at war. You should be "in the war" for jobs. Yeah, you should fight for jobs and I didn't mean literally when I mentioned war. It's pure pulsism what you were saying, turning off the topic. Yeah, you fight for jobs, you don't fight for jobs. The other day is today or yesterday, I don't know when the Minister of Labour almost said that nothing can be done to stop the unemployment drop. He almost said consternedly, so what he can do is there'll be more, there'll be 400,000, 500 grand, they don't know by now. They said the point is up to 500, then there's no more, then different things are solved. So that's why you need to fight with us. We are therefore criticizing you to help, and you are not listening because you have, it seems that you have taken all the senses in this House and that you do not want to listen to any proposal you have not respected the opposition, not even a single point, let alone a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21723	Thank you very much. Fifth replica in a row and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21724	Thank you. You spoke of the government actually spreading messages that frightened citizens and spread the atmosphere of defetism and pessimism, perhaps even worse than the fact that all these messages were actually true, so that citizens felt this defetism and pessimism and felt even more on their backs during these recent years. What I would disagree with you in determining the cause or possible outcomes of the crisis is that the response to the exit from the crisis should be sought through encouraging personal or general consumption because I think that many and those who are seriously engaged in the economy believe that the Republic of Croatia has too little scope of its own Croatian production so that, through increased growth of personal consumption, personal consumption could seek a way out because it would probably only lead to further strengthening imports, and thus all those who in some way live on it and subsidise it or credit it. So I think while the Republic of Croatia does not have a really serious capacity of its own production, the question is whether the answer to the need for exits from the crisis is an increase in personal consumption. We have had relatively high levels of personal consumption in these previous years. When it comes to banks, the banks are still under-realized and no matter how much you or we talk about them, neither the previous government nor the current government was prepared to take serious measures on banks. I'll read one of my fellow small entrepreneurs from Croatia. Says you're getting a car for a company at the bank no problem, so he bought Passat, everything gets rid of that moment, you pick out the modality, the length of payment, the interest in my case is below 6%, everyone's satisfied and the German worker has a job. Another situation, when you get production equipment for the same company, that's when the problem arises. A down payment of 40 to 45%, maximum of 2 years, interest 8.5%. Dear Minister Linic, think carefully when you sell the last Croatian bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21725	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21726	Dear colleague, I couldn't agree more. There is a need for growth in personal consumption and economic growth in line, certainly not to encourage personal consumption, and even some economic theorists argue that general consumption can also boost production growth. It is certainly not one, the other or the third measure divided. These measures should be precisely, and that is, the essence of governance, the ability to rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21727	Thank you, too. The sixth replica and respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21728	Dear Representative Vuksic, you can do something about payouts and how they got rid of them through this budget rebalancing. I'll say it's just a devastating way of paying the wages. We warned in the budget that there would be no pay in both health care and the police and education, and now that you look at this budget rebalance as I have already said for health investments, 560 million kuna was foreseen. 350 million kunas will be realized. So 210 million kuna less investment. What is then the result of the absence of these investments is negative economic growth, increased unemployment, decline in consumption and the rest of what is happening to us in Croatia today. But what you have in one part compared this government to the commanders in the Homeland War. In one part, it's like that and I can compare. The commanders of the Homeland War also warned, did not scare, warned. Here I was the defender when we conquered a strategic Chetnik fortress, released it then our commander Ivan Baja Canic told us it would be difficult, maybe you won't eat for two, three days, maybe you won't drink water for two, three days. We trusted him, but he had a plan and he knew, the command knew how and how to reach that goal. Now, this government, like you said, like none of them have ever feared this people. Well, I'll say I agree with that, but it didn't scare her, she warned and should be warned. And we all knew it would be hard, that they would need denials, and people were ready for those denials. But in Plan 21, as well as the late commander Canic, who was killed and killed in the implementation of that plan for the conquest of Ljubov, a Chetnik uprising, this government also told the citizens and they believed. We know how to resolve unemployment, how to avoid bankruptcy, how to introduce new taxes on banks, how to solve the economic crisis and how to resolve indifference. When it came to battle like the one for Love and the one for the economic crisis, then there is no leader, no plan, no idea and no way to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21729	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21730	Yeah, you should have a plan like you said. We need to plan, but we need to convince people that it's worth trusting this government, that it's worth it, and that's our desire for us in opposition. We want the success of this government because it's us, it's our children, it's our grandchildren. I don't think anyone here in Parliament is sitting here looking forward to any government failure because that would be sick. It's already in medicine. And our job is in it. However, the government did not explain well enough what it meant to save. Well, look, they say the real estate prices are down. They didn't drop real estate prices. Real estate doesn't have a price. No one's selling, it's all stopped. We stand in place, we tap in place. That's a big problem. Try to sell something. And what happens if it is introduced, but probably the finance minister whose sector is one of the best and most efficient in the government will explain what's going to happen when they come if this is the truth we've read, which has been brought to the government by new taxes. Yeah, it's new taxes. People will sell what they've acquired for decades so that someone for cheap money can buy. Who's gonna buy that? Mixers. So what's it gonna be? We're really going to be servants. We will no longer be ourselves on our own, but servants on someone else's side.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21731	Thank you very much. Seven replicas and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21732	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, I agree with you that fear is not good, that fear is holding back and driving to caution and therefore you have listed all those crashes that I would not repeat. You've really made a very good point. But what I'm saying is that when you fall, you often get fractures very often, resulting in disability, permanent disability. And I'm reporting because you forgot to mention one category that we all say is strategic, which is farmers, these are farmers who have experienced such fractures, who have experienced such disability from which they won't recover. So then there was a decline in milk production, a fall in meat production and everything else, so what he's saying is in favor. And now these palitative measures that are listed here in the rebalancing I do not dispute it. It won't help. Unfortunately, it's a palitative measure, and all that remains is a speech over an open grave. I don't want to be afraid, but this is the bitter reality of the Croatian village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21733	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21734	Here is though I do not know much about agriculture, quite certain that there is great potential in agriculture in Croatian agriculture. But since the agricultural reform, we haven't heard an R. Has anyone here in Parliament come and said what we're going to do and how we're going to do it. We keep swearing exactly on agriculture and tourism, but they're not in a year, maybe we'll do it in the second year, because they always say from the authorities what, so we couldn't do everything in a year. True, but in a year we could hear, or you bring, and we can hear the plans of what will be done and how will be helped. And of course we won't raise sophisticated technology in a year and a half, in two years, because we don't have it in five years. We don't want some big industry because we don't have it. But we can farm and we can process the industry. I'm sure we can. We can do those million acres of land that's been abandoned for sure so we can start working. That's what we should have heard about here in the Parliament, and it's for sure that there would be optimism. Optimism in Croatia is not because solutions are not heard, which is not convinced by the authorities that we have an idea. But it's not enough to say what idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21735	Thank you very much. Before I give my word on behalf of the promoter to the respected Minister of Finance Slavko Linic, I would say after these replicas that the difficulties are growing as close as we can to the goal. It is old wisdom, and now respected Minister Slavko Linic on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21736	Thank you, Mr. President. Two words about the debate on behalf of the Labour Club. You're talking about the government having no optimism, then I don't know how to evaluate really our message through the budget should be growth 0.8. Optimism that said that in state investments. We didn't say you'd pick it up. And now we say partial success. We do not have the courage, and the restructuring of railways 22 years after Croatia was launched. Yeah, part of the people on the street. Why? Because until yesterday, we hired them. From the state budget paid all the people in the railroad, from the state budget. They didn't earn any cargo or passenger traffic, they didn't. Shall we talk about roads? A huge number of employees. Why? So Croatian citizens need to pay off loans, they don't need to make money. Yes, the government doesn't have the courage, and when we say we need to raise the price of electricity because the hydroelectric power plants without the real electricity price are not going to be built. In socialism we built them, now vice versa. We say yes, it needs a price. So obviously, this government has no courage for anything, so here I am really wondering, and what are we pulling these messages for? What are these messages to optimism? And we always say we'll do it, but others will. But it's a good thing you're feeling, so I'll leave it to you. But I'm going back to the back of your debate. We were supposed to support consumption, we were supposed to spend both state and private spending. Yeah, we can't touch taxes and not be in debt. Then I suggest you try to reanalyze them. We have 110 billion tax revenues, other incomes, etc., 110 billion. Have we burdened people with taxes? We did. Shall we cut it down? So we cut two index points from the expenditure. Shall we have some more? So drop to 100 billion. No problem. How much are our expenses? 120 billion. Why are we saving up? Why didn't we raise our consumption? We're still supposed to be spending? We were supposed to get to 130 billion, but I'm sorry, and 130 is 30 billion deficits. So I'm really asking what budget we're talking about? If we want to raise income, we need to raise taxes because, as we can see, the economy is not going. Or vice versa, we need an economy just know then what's an older chicken or egg? They need businesses, they don't need to be charged taxes, we need to let them know how many people work in the railroad do they take the budget from here? We should simply hire more people in the Croatian roads. Let them look at each other in the back, they don't need to, but it's important that we hire them to pay, so they can spend. So I repeat the question do we understand what income is and what is expenditure? And at this point, we have 110 billion incomes, 120 billion expenditures. And we created 10 billion deficits. 10 billion. Debting out remains a question of whether you'll be in charge of half or less, so maybe it's a success or failure. After these discussions of ours on budgets and others when we show the picture, the question is what will be the rating, the question. Now 2 billion kunas more interest. And now we come to the question, we sell everything. Have you wondered how much this country, we, owe? A little less than 180 billion kuna. For the last 22 years, we haven't returned a single kuna. 180 billion are our public debt obligations. 180 billion! And the whole budget is here for this year 110 billion. You don't have to sell out. Now I'm asking you, when are we going to have surpluses to start paying back our debts? Our interest next year comes up to 10 billion. We're trying to maintain a 10 billion deficit. What does that mean? To spend as much as we earn, but not for interest, or how much we make from citizens and businesses. So, are we gonna talk about those numbers, what do we want? Greater consumption of state? But who brought it if not this Parliament's fiscal responsibility bill that talks about spending cuts by 1%. Whose obligation is that? Regardless of the revenues, we have to cut our expenditures so we decided in this House last year, the expenditures must be reduced. Why? Because we have a deficit. Now, are those the figures from our budget, what we want, what we want? Bigger state spending, bigger personal consumption? The law doesn't allow us to reduce the deficit. Who cares? Do we really think we hire everyone, give money, we'll have consumption, but who's going to give it? Foreign creditors. And how long do you think he'll give it? How long do you think? 180 billion are our obligations, 180 billion. The next year's interest is 10 billion kuna. The problem is, we're gonna close her down, let alone pay back the loans. When are we gonna start paying back the loans? How are we gonna get them back? And my people and our citizens are selling their real estate and companies, and we're the only ones who aren't selling. No, we will have useless employees in Croatian railways, Croatian roads, Croatian electricity or I don't know what. Because there's a huge number of them, it's politics, social welfare policy in the country. She can move on, too, just how far? When you think those of us who ask for 180 billion will tell us, gentlemen, that's enough. Well, that's the question. That's what's going down today, Greece, the problem of Spain, Portugal, Italy. We've been in too much debt. Our 3% deficit is something we can't have, we can't. That's what we wrote ourselves. The Croatian regulations of neither the IMF nor the European Union, we have set it ourselves. A nominal cost reduction. Yeah. That's why our optimism. We have to fight for a job, for a new investment, but not for more employees in the woods, in the waters, in the electricity industry, in the railroad, and that's why we have surpluses of people, that's why. Because it's a job responsible, brave, brave, who have the courage to say we can't have uneconomic behavior. Well, all the citizens have told us why you're raising the price of electricity. For someone to have a higher salary in HEP? Well, we're showing no. No, I don't. And some of the people are leaving there. And there we're fighting collective bargaining, and we want to cut wages, we want to cut wages, because we can't have a citizen paying for expensive electricity, importing electricity, no new hydropower plant, just because we have salaries, because we're simply a poor people, a debt to the people, enormously debt and a weak economic power force. You're talking about personal spending, so what are we going to finance? Well, most of our citizens are hungry, so there's just something to eat. Most of them. There's no money. They have nothing to invest in. And rich. What are we supposed to do, encourage investment in gold, encourage investment in cars, in foreign televisions? In what? In real estate? Well, I'm sorry, they're too expensive. They're too expensive. They were too big till yesterday. Yeah. The banks are holding apartments, they won't sell them, because they won't lower prices. Yeah, that's what we're fighting with. That's what we're fighting with. And that's where one of us has to slowly figure out where the role of the state is. Those responsible for their beliefs, we have to start coming back, we can't have bigger deficits, we don't have the opportunity to burden any more citizens, we don't have the economy, and that means we have to save, that's the message and the budget and this rebalance, and we can do it ourselves. Everything. And respect Croatian regulations. A nominal reduction in expenditures in the budget. So to whom it pleases, or not, but that's how we decided here in this House, last year many of us sat there. And that's what we have to do. Now, success is going to be whether we start a business or not, and that's where we're going to see what's going to be given to state firms, but also business, and there's the backbone of the struggle. But budget savings because of what... There's no movement, there has to be. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21737	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we move on to replicas. First, to read everyone who reported the replica, I may have left someone out, because the debate is dynamic. The first is Mladen Novak, the second is Dujomir Marasovic, the third is Đurdjica Sumrak, the fourth is Zoran Vinkovic, the fifth is Dinko Buric, the sixth is Suncana Glavak, the seventh is Branko Vukšić, the eighth is Branko Bačić, the ninth is Darko Milinović, the tenth is Drazen Đurović and the 11th is Gordan Jandroković. Let's get this straight. ... No, no, let's work. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please don't. That's good. First and most respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21738	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Minister, colleague Vuksic said tell the people something positive, but something that has a basis. You mentioned 0.8%, but that 0.8% in plus went into 3 minus. Then you mention, you mentioned HZ, employment in HH. There is no employment in HZ, there is no such thing, but the same HZ works at the technological level that was for Mary Teresa, and this same Maria Teresa bought, that is to say, a bunch of what is today HZ. What's going on with HH today is just a clean sale. On the other hand, you are from Rijeka, not long in the Rijeka port has sailed a ship for which we are all proud, most likely of the independence of Croatia, the largest ship that has sailed there, but 6 thousand kuna per gross tonne loses its cargo on the transport of that cargo, and if the cargo does not drive it, they can't drive it either, then that means the impact on the Rijeka port. That's where we had the situation, if you remember those mass strikes from the railways, there was a knock on the Rijeka port, sued the Rijeka port, the railways... The sale of all that property, except that tomorrow we'll no longer have anything to sell, we'll get into a situation where everything that we're using today from our rotten public companies, which are useless and a bunch of drones inside, that all those services when it goes to the side of our hands will be far more expensive, but then there won't be any way to affect it anymore. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21739	Thank you. Before we move on to the next line, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 17 hours and 7 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And now it's Comrade Dujomir Marasovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21740	Honored Madam President and Mr. Secretary Linic. I found myself called when you said someone said you didn't have the guts, I said it. I don't think you're part of this, but I said the first government doesn't understand, there's no strategy, and there's no three courages. I consider you one of those smart people, but some things they don't understand. I don't understand everything, and smarter people than me and you guys don't have to understand everything, you don't have to insult yourself. Which I don't think the government understand. If you have 100 thousand euros, in Zagreb you can buy, say, one crate or apartment of 40 squares. If you go to this 100 thousand euro deposit cement is paid VAT, the product is paid VAT parquet, etc. You know what I mean. Workers work and contributions are paid. About 40 per cent returns from the 100,000 euros you invest directly to the state. If you're not buying anything with that money, you're not doing anything, but you're keeping it in the bank, or there's no people in the sock, or the state is using nothing. You are your policy in one way or another we can think of whatever it is that we want someone to buy an apartment in Zagreb with their honest money at the bank has led to absurdity. So who's the normal guy today who buys a place in Zagreb with money today if it's not necessarily a roof over his head? No one. ... investment is the essence of the story, it's 90% story today in Croatia 1% is everything else and the worldview and everything. It means starting a business like you said. I don't think you have a way out of this crisis. I don't think you have that key to starting a business or economy. I've set an example for me to be elastic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21741	The reply to the replica, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21742	Just a note. In Croatia you have 10,000 unsold apartments, 10,000. Well, of course no one's gonna build a new apartment. You should sell these first. And are the prices from 1800 to 3000 what are real prices offered? Well, they're not. Well, no one's gonna buy that. That the government will handle it in real estate tax. And first we're gonna sell the manufactured apartments, and then we're gonna go build new ones. ... why build new ones when we have, and how many are in Croatia? As long as you want. And you know why they're so expensive? Well, because everyone went to build and the bank gave him credit. And now no one can repay the loans, so the bank dictates the prices. I'm sorry, that policy was until yesterday. They invested their profits with added loans in apartments. But, you know, it wasn't construction companies that invested it, but both dentists and professors and those who produce some industrial products all thought it was best. Your profits plus your credit, no matter how much the new apartment costs. New ten apartments and suddenly no one can sell anything, and prices are high. And why the tall one? Because the interest last year was very high. That's why there won't be any new apartments. First they have to sell the existing and therefore there is no economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21743	The next replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21744	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, here I was listening to you and you were saying and hypothetically you asked yourself what the government was supposed to invest your gold in televisions in, I don't know what, and you mentioned courage. Mr. Minister, I think this government should have done a lot more than the farmers expected, and that's what we've been referring to when we're getting the budget into agriculture. Mr. Minister, we expected at least a minimum of funds to be rebalanced for elemental damage. This year we know that there was a huge drought that destroyed crops, not just corn and soy, but fruits and vegetables. In addition, the prices of these products on the markets are more than 10%, and the total cost of cost means of products and food is already over 50% of the resources that citizens spend. Mr. Minister, Mr. Jakovina's minister had neither the political powers nor the support to cope with the rebalancing to in some way damage farmers to make it easier on them as cattlemen. In your program, Mr. Minister, and it says that you will advocate supporting livestock production for milk and meat for the development of warfare and fruit production. Are they only good words? Was it written in plan 21 just so much or did these farmers really have to be... in our Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21745	The reply to the replica, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21746	Yeah, and that's policy change, and that's probably the fact that we don't have the courage. In the old budgets there were 4.5 billion for farmers yes, yes. Now 2 billion 700 is far less. But let's be honest, we gave it to farmers, we took it out of the budget. Imagine the drought coming and there's no harvest. And so comes the high water all gone. Now I'm asking if we gave it smartly? But this government says no, we can't give like that, we can't. We can help to level and encourage price crabs but the government must invest in water protection in irrigation. So look at our deficit where it grows where it grows by the end of the year did you see it? In Croatian waters, the deficit is growing significantly. In the following year, 0.7% of the deficits fall on the water. Why? The policy of this government is we will invest in irrigation in complete water protection. Why? That what the peasant invests doesn't be destroyed is our business and we change the policy of encouragement. We really want the peasant to do what he plants and collects, which is why we will then do a little less participatory in that battle for economic price and vice versa that we will try to apply through the European funds exactly European economic protection policy. So, slightly less farmers, but what the state needs to do is try to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21747	You didn't get the word of a colleague. Zoran Vinkovic's next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21748	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Well, the fact is that you can't be held accountable in the end, and this government is responsible for everything that's been done in these past years. And there is certainly great responsibility for Croatia's situation and all the governments so far, but you must understand these criticisms primarily well-intentioned. The price of electricity does not rise because electricity production has increased so much. The price of electricity we raise and HEP takes credit for the work and bad work of all previous HEP administrations. We're raising the heat price for that very reason. I ask you as Minister, this government has promised great investments in Croatia, it has promised to start an economy. Where are those investments? Now I hear from you again that the great deficit refers precisely to Croatian water, that there are irrigation programs. Take a look at the budget where these programs reduce the items so this year. It is not true that there are no projects, projects exist, but there is no funding at all from the ministries, there are no major state investments that should have increased employment, which should have been launched by the economy, which should have included small companies. I don't see a single bogeyman in Croatia, a bulldozer, I don't see a single crane. Who's going to buy these unsold apartments, the fact is they're too expensive. It's a fact. But if we hit more real estate taxes, then no one's gonna buy it. Maybe someone wanted to buy their child for study in Zagreb, they won't, this way they won't buy it because it's another property and they'll be extra taxed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21749	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21750	Just to direct you, look at a little extra budget user of Croatian water, expenditures or investments 2 billion and 100 planned raises to 2 billion and 800, therefore over 700 million in this year alone in Croatian water, unfortunately deficits, loans. It's projects, projects with every unit of local self-government. I don't want to talk about next year because it's getting bigger. So, unfortunately too late, the last quarter, that's true. When we talk about HEP because HEP is very important, raising prices, yeah, big projects. Flomin problem ecological, investments ready. Ombla environmental problem. The government must have courage and must see how much democratic debate can be. Why are we in a hurry, because it's not a problem with new kilowatts, it's a problem with construction, equipment, electric producers, they're all waiting for these investments to start. Yeah, they're new jobs, it's raising gross national income, but that's what's most important. How much electricity we're going to introduce this year, because of the drought over 60%. We're going to import huge amounts of electricity, but it's very important for us to have our own production because then we have more foreign exchanges, a smaller foreign currency deficit. That's why it's a battle for HEP. But we have another message. As you can see, it's important for us to transfer electricity, to distribute it to the monopoly of the state, to have quality there, and we don't have it now, and that's where HEP is going to invest. But we have to produce together with business partners, through private and public partnerships, but you won't get anybody unless you have a real electricity price. That's why the power went up, but that's why we want to go back to the hydro power plant. Many HEs need to be restored over the next two years and this is the reason for price hikes and these are investments, these are jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21751	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21752	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, at one point you were speaking about the current state of total debt of the Republic of Croatia, and they are the reason for the concern of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, you will agree with me that in getting out of the crisis and putting up with the burden of all these difficulties, I would say solidarity among all citizens and among all institutions in the Republic of Croatia. But here's what I'm asking is one question on just one example from this budget rebalance. What kind of solidarity is that when we cut into all the items, e.g. at the point of development of civil society and cooperation with NGOs, we double what we had in previous years. It's about 50 million kuna. Kuna per kuna. What benefits Croatian citizens have, I do not say that civil society should not be developed, but if it is difficult for everyone, then the burden of the crisis must be borne by them. And we had 55 million kuna total expenditures in 2011, and now we have 104 million kunas. For 48.5 million kuna, the expenditures, for example, were raised on that item. I only say this as an example that I agree with your finding that it is nominally necessary to cut costs but then it needs to be reduced in all positions proportionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21753	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21754	I agree with my colleague Buric. Just one note, it's not an increase. Unfortunately, grants for the NGO sector were the privileges of many ministries. None of us knew how much is given and what route was given to the same associations in many items, and it was hidden in the ministries. The government decided to show everything in one account. In this year we showed them, we didn't reduce them, we can accept the criticism, but so much was spent in earlier years but it wasn't seen. And it's obvious that now it's really going to need a serious cut, because simple control of spending, and that's what the Ministry of Finance is now in charge of, with budgetary supervision, the deposit of accounts for each kuna. You've got a huge resistance through your account and they'll be cut off for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21755	Thank you. Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21756	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The budget is actually for citizens some feedback or indicator in which direction the government is heading. Everything about what's ahead of us I could actually bring down one word, which is stagnation. And it's not the rebalance of the technical nature budget. He's real. I'll just say two examples of why he's real. This reality suggests that, for example, in the site of the Ministry of Culture of Investments, it reduces what it means, for example, that the restoration of cultural monuments, churches, libraries will not be done by those who have done so so far, so mostly small entrepreneurs, that we will slowly cause traditional knowledge and traditional crafts. It is quite clear to carpenters, carpenters, glasskeepers that they will not have a job because the investment is therefore reduced budget. You are also reducing by 111 million kuna on the item of the Ministry of Agriculture, the funds relating to public draining and water protection. I don't think anyone has to be an expert to realize that we're not going to build water lines more intensely, so I'm going to ask if it's going to be built up. I will remind you of the disaster that took place in Varazdinska and Međimurje County and where we asked on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to send intervention funds from the budget to that area of people will understand that there is obviously no money there. But I ask you, will you and can you help these people to send the funds they need from their reserves to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I won't be satisfied with the fact if you're going to tell me that many of these things can be financed through European Union funds, or funds, because these people can't wait. They need help now, right now, they needed it last week.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21757	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21758	Their property has been destroyed and I beg you don't let them destroy any craftsmen who might be working.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21759	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21760	We can always really talk about how acceptable savings are on projects or not. But just to encourage entrepreneurs, we've reduced the monumental rent, and that's the reason for the smaller investments of the Ministry of Culture. And that's what we're reducing state spending. So there'll be less in that part. Why? Because it was an extra income from the Ministry of Culture. Let's move on. When it comes to the reduction in agriculture related to investment in the water line and the rest just before I mentioned 800 million growth expenditures for Croatian waters and all investments are transferred to Croatian waters and we finance it from the loan. Therefore, it is a replacement of items. And look how much money is invested, which contracts are signed, we can talk about it. We also suggest raising the reserve by 50 million kuna and one of the first demands on the Prime Minister's table is help, but purely helping people who have been killed in the last elemental accident. Therefore, after the budget, the prime minister will decide because simply with the tenth month, reservations have been spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21761	Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21762	Excuse me. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, mostly I agree with what you said. You tried to twist my words. It's about the ability to rule, the thing is, I didn't say that state spending should be bigger, it needs to be reduced. I agree with you. But I'm saying, I said that some theorists, I'm going to bring you a book, theorists who claim that public spending can also be started, I was talking about it. I have a very short.../Speaker off./... that you need to see, that you need to know what incomes are, what expenses are. That's right. And that revenue side should finally be bigger than the expenditure side and nobody here, we all agreed on that. But the only question is how we're going to do it. We're different in that. So, you as the authority that you have the opportunity, we don't have the opportunity here, you as a government should offer a solution in what way. What's been piling up for years, all those problems that have been piling up for years, you can't solve them for a year, and nobody expects it, and no one, besides the public, is favored and Prime Minister Milanovic says little more than a little patience. It means that there has already been a lot of patience, because people have patience and know that the situation in the world is bad, but the big problems that have arisen in Croatia are not caused by world problems, European problems. We're guilty of a lot of things. And what you said about the road sale doesn't take too many employees, but it needs honesty. If we give in to a road concession, if we give them someone for 30 or 50 years, so why don't we just say it ourselves. Why aren't we being honest with people and saying there's 70% extra people, we need to fire so much or we're gonna have to give in to the concession and the concessionist will fire them and they just need to play honest and people will understand. If it's in the railroads, we need to find a solution to make it happen in the railroads. Just an honest approach and I'm talking about that optimism, not the kind some colleagues wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21763	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21764	Let's start with the concession and first understand something. The government's goal of why it wants to concession roads is to return 50 lips for new programs. First of all, to invest in the railroad. Elevating the quality of ordinary roads because they're on the highway... And find someone who can give money and basically 30 years with that money to pay off the loans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Try to understand the bill is not simple, road debts are 4.1 billion euros, euros. There is also a bill below which prices we cannot accept concessioning, we cannot because we need to return 4.1 billion euros. In order for someone to answer, he must give more than 3 billion. Which means we'll take back the burden of the citizens to take over a billion, but we'll get 50 limes, 50 limes we can get for development, for investment again, for speeding up investment in infrastructure, for a railway that has to transport goods from the port. That's what we're going to talk about in a transparent manner. It's a question of how to get to those 50 limes. Because if we don't find that, 50 limes stay forever in road payments, there's no extra money left. Only to introduce the new 50 lips. And also what you need to understand is not a problem of consumption, the problem is debt. When we talk about large-scale theorists increase personal consumption, increase state spending, but it is a debt that does not allow us to do so, because after that there is a decline of ratings from investment to speculative and at that moment we are growing enormously interest, at the moment we do not have new loans, that moment we and serious investors will have far from Croatia. And that's where we have to figure it out. 170 billion public debt is our problem why we don't stimulate and enter both personal and state spending. But we have to show that we're thinking about repaying that debt, serviceing that debt. So the theorists are one thing, we're something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21765	Thank you very much. Branko Bacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21766	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, in your re-enactment, you acted on me a little while ago stating that out of the 110 billion revenues of the state budget, it was pre-disbursed, given pensions, salaries, the health system almost 90% of that system. You, as former Deputy Prime Minister, are still in the government of Ivica Racana later as a parliamentary representative before you became Minister of Finance for all this together. And I'm really surprised that then the many solutions that you've made as an opposition representative haven't been realized now. When you talk about the next year in which you announce 0.8% of GDP growth, you say you will base it on investment in the state sector. I can tell you that from the resources I've been in, you've been left with a series of projects that could have been accelerated and realized this year. So you know very well that there is a project in the port system of the river GT project in the port of Rijeka, that there is a project... in Zadar, the project GATA Vrulje in Šibenik, the project of Banskoveve ves in Split, the project of integration of transport trade in Ploča, the project of the Greek coast in Dubrovnik, and all these projects had a building permit except for the Split project, and I'm really surprised what projects the World Bank called you to offer, and that they can't be realised when we just got credit on these projects because they were here in this sense prepared. You mentioned unsold apartments, here's the difference between us and you. So you're talking about 10,000 unsold apartments. We opened a model project last year under the subsidisation law and state guarantees of housing loans. According to the project, in only a few months, 2253 apartments of an average size of 63 square meters were sold, an average price of 1360 euros. For me, that's an acceptable price. And I don't understand why you gave up on that project when the project was safe and in this coming year as it was imagined could almost 80% of that unsold apartment fund, the state would have taken a value added tax by selling those apartments, and the subsidies that the government had to allocate under the law were lower than the value added tax revenue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21767	Thank you very much. Time's up. Take care of the weather. Replication response, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21768	Very short. ... We have the Rijeka harbor, then I'm asking you to take me through the Rijeka terminal. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Nobody's doing anything, anything empty, a painting building, and an opportunity for irresponsible investments. It doesn't serve anything, and I don't know who's gonna bring it back. Tax bonds. Do we want to talk about Zadar? The biggest problem of Zadar's like building that should be a monument to human nonsense. These are our problems. None of these projects have an economic basis, no where to go back from. All of this should be returned by the citizens of Croatia from their taxes. You don't build a port like that. Luke is being built to do business, to do business through those ports. That's what you don't have in your projects, that's the problem why your projects don't work out. They're not economically justified. And that's what your calculations say. And this government has said that we will no longer burden Vukovar and the citizens of Vukovar or Slavonski Brod to pay for the nonsense in Rijeka. These are your messages. And that's government policy. That's what we're different about. The easiest thing to do is to give projects, push them on all Croatian citizens, and projects are not economically justified. That's the problem with your contract. That's all. And don't let me go any further to Sibenik or anything like that. That's all I ask. We want the economic justification of the projects and they want it from us and the World Bank. You don't have that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21769	The Republic has a colleague Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21770	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I think today's debate is actually good, argumentated on both sides and too bad it's not in the morning. So I'll be in that part constructive and try to contribute to such a debate. I'll be so brutally honest, my trust in you oscillates. When you were appointed, when I heard you'd be appointed Minister of Finance I told about God not only him. And I apologize for that expression. But that's what I was thinking. After some of your moves my trust in you, I must say, grew up and at some point seemed to me that you would actually be able and be able to bring order into finance. However, when the budget came and this budget rebalance each budget characterizes three things fiscal, development and social components, and the goal of this is economic growth that we do not have, to preserve, and to preserve and encourage employment and new jobs that we do not have, and the third objective of each budget is to strengthen the domestic and international position of companies and sectors, which we can say that you have succeeded through the preservation of the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. There are those two directions in tax policy that one towards reduction, and one towards tax hike, one close tells the Socialists, one close to the democracies. I don't know where you are and through VAT, of course, you're in that direction of economic policy where you advocate an increase in taxes. Now taxes must not be an instrument of development and must not be the ultimate objective. What I want to mention is, you said for 2013, we need to cut the budget by two, about two and a half billion kuna, and when you were in the last government, you made nurses, the nurses took the salaries off from 3,000 to 900 to 3,000 and 100 kuna by 19%, doctors from 6 to 200 to 5 and 300.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21771	Bring the end, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21772	Just one sentence. Unhealthy workers from 3 and 600 to 2 and 700, totaling about 600 million kuna per year for 4 years 2 billion and 400 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21773	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21774	There's no budget cuts if there's no cutting... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21775	Thank you. And the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21776	Which I am, and where we've often been, was asked of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21777	My colleague, please look at the screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21778	As the largest item of the budget to cut the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21779	A colleague of Milinović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21780	But I've introduced participations, I've introduced additional insurance, I've introduced them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21781	The replica has Drazen Djurovic. Here's my colleague Đurovic. Comrade Milinović, your time is up on the screen. One minute. Here's my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21782	Thank you. So here, Mr. Minister, you have clearly exposed this Croatian debt and the fact that this debt has practically been accumulated since the establishment of the Croatian state, and that no one is returning it, I don't think there are any significant indicators now that in the term of your government any kuna of that debt will be returned, except for that so-called. There's no sign of a highway mount so far. What you are calling for is someone common, some common force of the people or the authority of the opposition, there is a problem in credibility, I simply think that the credibility and trust that this government has not established, and where it loses in my view of credibility in certain moves where it does not show consistency, where it does not show a constant attitude of the entire government and all its parts in some fundamental relationship to the problem of the economy. So, for example, when it comes to HEP and that electricity price you've just mentioned, so it's not a credible move and it's not good enough, it's certainly not good enough, but it's certainly not clear to anyone or in the good part of the public how you could inherit HEP with several hundred million kunas of money, change management, put on the head of a person who told you that it's not credible, that she took a parliamentary pension, let's ruin the previous company and then have the results of several hundred million kunas of debt, several times raises a loan to cover the dubiosis, and then, with an explanation that we finally raise the price and explain that we don't have investments in energy. So these are incredible moves. That's the kind of move we have on the establishment of some other agencies. And in a whole series of other economic moves. And besides those who run the Croatian government economically? What economists define Croatian economic policy? Maybe they'll re-remember Love Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21783	Thank you. We're moving on to the next club, on behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21784	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what we finally welcomed was what we claimed it would be, but we were convinced all along that it wouldn't come to this, but the first question that I would ask myself and you, and also the Minister, did the government have any real judgments? We said that these estimates were not realistic and that unfortunately what happened would happen. I'd be happier if something else had happened, because all the time there was going to be economic growth 0.8 today we see that the situation is different, but unfortunately there's been a rebalancing, and this economic growth has gone the other way. However, what we believe is crucial in the Croatian Democratic Community club and definitely this government will have to answer that question, and that is whether we have been in the water of the wrong economic policy over the past year, whether we have gone in a wrong direction by entering the waters of the wrong economic policy and today we have a situation that we have. Whether warnings by all economists in the Republic of Croatia that economic growth cannot be based solely on investment from the state budget from public companies have unfortunately proved to be correct. First, that these investments did not occur out of a variety of interests and could now draw political conflicts between coalition partners this, however, for all of us a common tragedy unfortunately these investments did not happen, and what should be the generator of economic development in the Republic of Croatia that is private capital we did not open up to it space. In fact, a little bit of a statement by all those who should be creating a new value tomorrow that should make some money is being declared by some murky types, and in this story, about 10,000 unsold apartments, the question is, why did these people invest? Well, they invested for making some money. Why they made a mistake is their problem. But there are some that this wrong economic policy and the wrong assessment have cost a great deal, so I ask myself, with full right, both of you and myself and what does Croatian citizens and businessmen have 7 months after the state budget has been passed? We have a GDP drop we have an increase in unemployment by about 40,000, we have a cut in employment by 25 grand, so all together when we add up somewhere around 65,000 people just don't work. We have a decrease in production, we have a decrease in consumption, the trade has dropped by 3 to 9 months by 3.1%. But what happened up there? Taxes are growing. No matter how much we will argue that there was tax discharge in Croatia in Croatia, there was no tax discharge that is the best indicator of this budget and this is the best indicator of the 2013 budget. The VAT has increased by 8.7%, and not by 2%, these are two percentage points, as well as income tax. He fell for a small group, unfortunately due to low wages and during the past period, however, for all salaries and 5.5 thousand kuna income tax increased. These are facts we can't escape from. Also with these tax changes, the poorer units of local self-government where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia live have lower income income from income tax, and the units of local self-government where the wealthier citizens live where the stronger economy have higher income with income tax based precisely because of these measures. However, it is very interesting that someone in the given moments is very much representing, so I can even say the strongest principles of the agreed economy in some other segments is being very liberal. Thus, the rise in electricity prices by 20%, gas and energy is 37%, food products due to non-intervention on the market to eliminate the consequences of all these natural disasters have gone up to up to 30%, and gasoline is also growing. And it could now be bad and say what was said a few years ago when the price of gasoline grew because of exactly the same reasons as it is now growing because of some conditions that we simply cannot control or influence in Croatia. Those who receive salaries from the state budget this year have lost only Christmas cards, and the question is what happens next year. So that's what happened to Croatian citizens, and what does this budget rebalance offer us? offers us a certain increase in income for two basic reasons and no third. There is no increase in income with the basis of the famous and PR-ovski so as to announce better tax collection than exclusively due to an increase in value added tax and due to changes in value added due to non-recognition of certain items for deduction, this is the biggest reason for increasing income from value added tax. But at the same time, what is clearly pointing to a certain us and the standard of Croatian citizens, as well as a certain economic movement, because until the big trucks do not spar with Croatian highways, then there is no economic activity. Also, until freight wagons carry cargo by rail no production has no economic activity. We don't need any macroeconomics and macroeconomics telling us that this is happening that's something that is visual and that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia can see, so the income from excise duties has fallen. But something that we've been accused of over the past few years is also less than a billion kuna because the CNB has paid a share of its profits and because the HANDA has been taken from 500 million. If that hadn't happened, the revenues would have been a billion kuna lower and the deficit of the state budget would have been quite different. But honestly, Mr. Minister, if certain things had been done, I would have accepted you and I have nothing to accept or not to accept, but the jargon says so, and the greater deficit but to see certain indications that something will happen. And what we at the HDZ Club think is that your problem is no longer the 2012 budget, it is a story from you will end as it is, however, things that did not happen in the 2012 budget that is the nightmare that awaits you next year unfortunately. And I can do it with my colleagues with full responsibility to say I know how you feel and I fully understand you. And that's why in the past few months, no matter what we've been called, there have been no bile attacks, and we've been waiting to see what happens with certain moves. However, this budget rebalancing shows everything that we have well-intentioned you when you adopt the budget has happened. It happened because in Croatia we have to understand one thing there is no change in the expenditure side of the budget without structural reforms and whoever thinks it is wrong. Also, I simply because of the club, because of everything we've been having as a party not to remember yours, not yours personally but your president and your party colleagues' signature for a referendum on the Labour Act. You said it yourself today, but my colleague Linic, these collective agreements aren't from the last year, two days, these collective agreements you know well that they date back to when you were vice president of the government, some of you had inherited before. And today I want to say it openly here in front of everyone, not running away from anything and taking on behalf of the party responsibility for some of the things we didn't do, but then it was simply reality and your basic mistake. And that's why you have no right to complain today that some things have not been done, which is when you should have just been aside because the government has taken responsibility to do so. And you're facing this problem today, and you can't solve this problem without it. It's the facts of colleagues and colleagues. And therefore, let us not hide, let us not convince one another that it will be good if we are not able to undertake structural reforms. Structural reform didn't cut wages, structural reform didn't even say let's fire 2,000 people. The structural reform is to say that certain and services and everything in the future will function in a different way because because of the way the Croatian citizens function now simply and the Croatian economy can no longer finance it with its tax. And we have to tell the fact that our incomes are at the level of 2005, 2006, and our expenditures are somewhere in the heavens. See, that's why you're in this situation today. Why do you have a deficit that's a little bit smaller than that, why don't we all admit to ourselves that the deficit in the 2008 state budget was practically almost... balance, it was about 2 billion 500, 600, and that the reason for the deficit in Croatia was the economic and economic crisis that happened. Now that's what you don't want to admit, that's what we throw balls at, that you'll see in this... later on who's guilty, and neither of us will accept the fact. And when we talk about Croatian railways, look, you've reduced the revenues to Croatian railways by nearly 600, 700 million kuna to smaller budget donations. When you were a representative, then you talked about how the railroads needed more and more money, today the story is different. However, only one elemental question is whether without restructuring the HH could happen in Croatia. No, we can pump as much money as we want and as much as we want. So when the budget was adopted, it was clearly said that there would be a lack of funds for wages, it was clearly said that there would be a lack of funds for interest not because of shipbuilding but because of everything else, it was clearly said that there would be problems in agriculture because you had reduced the incentives by nearly a billion and 200 million kuna. It was clearly said that incentives in the economy in this way as they have been given so far will not yield results, will be spent and we have lost another year, spent several hundred million kunas without any clearer results and what happens to us? We definitely have a tax press. All that is happening in Croatia at this time is paid by Croatian citizens and that is the fact and that is the truth that we cannot escape from because through an increase in electricity of 20%, through an increase in heating and gas of 37%, through an increase in the price of gasoline we have increased the basis for calculating VAT and that is one reason why VAT is so.... 2% reduction in the contribution did not produce any effect in the economy compared to how much negative effects the VAT increase rate and how much negative effects the income tax rate gave. So, all these measures unfortunately created an anti-entrepreneurship spirit in the Republic of Croatia, people neither want nor want and fear to invest and what worries me the most is us in the HDZ club and we want to say it publicly, we would not want the HBOR to turn into a parallel budget. Unfortunately, some things happen. HBOR's debt and HBOR's loan and positioning towards the economy is the same debt of the state. You know very well in the consolidated calculation statistically when it's seen that HBOR surrenders to it all together. So what is definitely the next year's government has to make an economic turn, it has to start running a completely different policy, it has to open up space to private capital that domestic and foreign and simply has to take care of the even regional development of the Republic of Croatia because there is nothing without it. And unfortunately because of all this together, because our well-intentioned remarks in the adoption of the budget were not accepted we cannot accept the budget rebalance, but I repeat, Mr. Minister, you no longer have a problem with the 2012 budget, you have a big problem and a nightmare budget 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21785	Thank you, fellow Shuker, but you're not finished yet. You have 12 replicas. The first one is Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21786	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, the government proposed a budget in February and then there were many promises not made in the budget. Of course, there were many objective reasons that conditioned that neither the income nor the expenditure side of the budget could have been carried out as planned by the Government, but I was surprised by one thing. I am surprised that the Government is waiting for the end of November, so the end of the 11th month when we were already to discuss the 2013 budget that the Government did not arrive before the budget rebalancing, for example in late June or early July, and when, on the basis of the analysis of the rebalance of the 2012 budget, we will be working more seriously on the budget for 2013, but as soon as there is a debate on the budget. I'd like to say one thing, Mr. Minister earlier said that we came to build projects in the port system without any criteria, to build peckin's villages, for example the building at the port of Rijeka is empty. I would remind you, Mr. Minister, that this project was inherited from your government and that this project was signed in July 2002. I will. I'll just finish it. [[Stupid Zgrebec: Replicate your colleagues to Šuker, not Minister.]] So I want to say that this project has been inherited and that I believe in this project today as I believed before. However, this project can be achieved if it is complete. That is why it would be good for the government to include the construction project in the investment and for the next year, and to implement the construction of the river's railway line, which will then end up being realised. Namely, the port system cannot measure the revenues of the port administration because each dollar earned in the port system is multipled to all participants in that system. That it was only measured by the revenues of highways of toll and decided on the construction of highways ...to Split... [[Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Shucker's replica. Here's my colleague Shuker.]] So infrastructure projects have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and they should be supported and worked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21787	.../Intruder Zgrebec: Replicate your colleague to Šuker, not Minister./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21788	I will. I'll just finish it. So I want to say that this project has been inherited and that I believe in this project today as I believed before. However, this project can be achieved if it is complete. That is why it would be good for the government to include the construction project in the investment and for the next year, and to implement the construction of the river's railway line, which will then end up being realised. Namely, the port system cannot measure the revenues of the port administration because each dollar earned in the port system is multipled to all participants in that system. If only it had been measured by the revenues of the highway from the toll and decided on the construction of the highway...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21789	Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Shucker's replica. Here's my colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21790	...to Split... So infrastructure projects have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and they should be supported and worked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21791	You're absolutely right. If certain infrastructure projects were to be viewed separately, then no infrastructure project would ever be created. However, if by some such things were then probably not the Zagreb-Split highway would have been made, and the question is what would happen to the tourist season. However, it is not good for certain projects to watch with a government when it began, when it came because simply when certain intervals are looked at, then the port of Rijeka is known exactly when it started. And secondly, I would really like to see this man from the World Bank who criticized this project, because if anything else, they are constantly with some optimism, with admiration talking about how this Rijeka port project is great but the low-level railway almost Zagreb – Rijeka. Without it, the project doesn't make sense, because then if that railway is not made, then the port of Rijeka is not the nearest sea route to Central Europe, but it's someone else. But now to talk about whether Zadar's harbor is like this is worth it or not is just funny. You should watch what you can reroute to that port of Zadar tomorrow to use the highway and to do so. However, it is very interesting that at the time when we were giving out big money for the Zagreb highway – Split someone spent a lot of money on the tilt train and spare parts, and unfortunately this tilt train is now becoming more and more tilty and weaker driving.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21792	Darko Milinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21793	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Shuker said that in the public sector this year they lost... but that the problem is the 2013 budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to continue on that replica, so the reduction, and we have an announcement of budget cuts for the next year of two and a half billion kuna. So there's no cuts without cutting justice. I remember when we were bringing the 2009 Budget when I was under pressure because almost a quarter of the budget goes to health care and social care then we agreed to move into health care reform. What does it mean to start reforming the health system? Among other things, it means fucking some rights, so now I'm just going to count some. We've raised the participation in the health system by 400%. We've introduced participation to primary medical care. We've raised the price of supplemental health insurance policy by 50 to 100%. Introduce 3% of pension contributions and introduce 7% of car insurance policies. Through this, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute received its own income without a burden on the state budget of 2 billion and 400 million kuna. And then we stabilized the health system, and the result is that for the first time in Croatia, the ninth, tenth and eleventh time, we did not have an additional recovery of the health system. The reduction in the contribution by 2% you mentioned resulted in the first recovery after 2009 of 500 million kuna, a rebalancing of 500 million kuna. It's a billion and a new debt in the hospital system of billions of kunas. So that's two billion kunas, so a billion new debt, 500 million kunas of recovery, 500 million kunas of rebalancing. As we can see, this is the result of a 2% reduction in contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21794	Thanks, buddy. The answer to my colleague Shucker's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21795	Yes, you're right, colleague Milinovic. Sometimes when it was said that 80% of the budget was set, it was caused by a laughful salva. And it's also often repeated here in the assembly, and that's what I'm saying. It was not intended to admit that the crisis and recession, so if you suggest that the secured savings rise from 100 to 400,000 kuna and if you suggest a budget rebalance for freezing expenditure at the level of 2008 so isn't that the best signal that some negative things happen in the economy. But at that time it was different, and today it should be viewed as all of this together kindly. The amendment of the Labour Act is not proposed as someone's whim, but as a consequence of certain disrupted economic movements that were at the time. And it would be good if this government had taken a series of measures from economic recovery and continued continuity, because last year in the second and third quarter, we had positive economic growth and surely the fall would not be what will now happen between 1.5% and 2%, but because of that continuity of implementing those measures, the result would certainly be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21796	Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21797	Thank you very much. So here's what I have to do to replicate my colleague Shucker's claim that this government has failed to realistically plan GDP growth. So we all remember when we were bringing the state budget that at that time it was said that 0.8% of growth is real growth and that it should be accepted, that that's how it's going to be. It's after a few months when the CNB says that this growth doesn't grow, but that it falls to -1.6 then says one minister, so we were, we should have been optimistic because we have to be optimistic about achieving the maximum. Now we see that at the end of the year it's going to turn out to be some kind of -1.1, as the government says, and I don't know what that's even important when we have a nominally higher budget of nearly 3 billion despite the fall of all indicators. Someone paid for that growth in the state budget, and the fact is that this bet about GDP growth is simply not necessary. We can say that next year it's going to be 1.8, so if it's negative 2, and we pick up 112 billion power, it's a success. And the fact is that, and I keep mentioning it, this government knows that bank savings citizens together with legal entities have 280 billion kunas. 140 of them. So is it a pool enough for us to still take in the next few years from these citizens what they have in these banks because the fact that money is not a problem and that it exists. You just need to remember the way, and the ways are always possible through taxes on certain different things, the first next next is real estate tax and it will be paid by citizens. So I think that growth and this great story of all these analysts, etc. They don't affect this country at all, this government because I say, with that kind of growth or the fall, the state budget is better than last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21798	Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Shucker's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21799	Thank you very much. You can see from my colleague Boric when international financial institutions allegedly spit on some projects in Croatia, then it is taken as something relevant, and when international financial institutions say that the economic downturn will be between 1.5% and 2%, then it is not relevant. However, I did not accidentally say that the 2012 budget was a finished story. It will be carried out in accordance with this rebalancing process, rather than that it is far the biggest problem and unfortunately my colleague Linić's Budget 2013 for the reason that the assumptions are already wrong. So, the assumption is that the economic downturn in 2012 will be 1.1, and everyone says it will be over 1.5, and then it makes projections for next year with an economic growth of 1.7%. And yet, if we don't eat with some taxes from Croatian citizens in the pocket or some exhibition of tax revenue, the party will be in trouble because there is simply no one to fill it. And the indication that this is so is filling the budget at the 9th month when income from value added tax is less than 740 million than it was in the same period last year, and VAT is increased by 2 percentage points. Also income from contributions because we need to know when we talk about contributions that the reduction of contributions has been introduced if I haven't been wrong since 1.06, so the payment of salaries in the 6th month is only with a 2% lower contribution and the real effect of reducing the contribution on the revenue side of the budget is seen in the 8th and 9th months. So, simply some indicators should be taken, sometimes taken with a reserve, but because of the situation and because of the turbulence of both the international financial market and the economy of much stronger and developed countries, it may sometimes be far more important and to plan some major decline, so if something smaller happens, it will be positive because if you do counter then it causes shock for both citizens and for the businessmen and no shock is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21800	Thank you. Replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21801	An esteemed colleague has said three facts that I would refer to, or I would replicate. Says guilty economic policy, then something commented about entrepreneurs and 10 thousand apartments and an anti-entrepreneurship spirit. So it's economic policy. What a guilty economic policy when we found what we found and we had to create trust in entrepreneurs, trust in international institutions, trust in citizens in the stability of the budget and behaviour of the Government and responsibility, and we can only turn it around, and we need to reinvest it means we need to prepare for public sector investment to then start the private sector and the domestic and foreign sectors that we expect, of course, in announcements and being in 2013. What's called a guilty economic policy to me is quite clear when Mr. Shucker said ten thousand apartments so what, why they made a mistake that's their problem. Now, Mr. Schuker, that's our problem, that's the problem of the citizens of Croatia, that's the problem and unemployment and problems in construction and that's what we don't want to do in a way that we don't allow the market to wave in the way that fellow Vuksic spoke with optimism about development, work, build anywhere, whatever, and then come into the situation of course there's no charge, no market, no funds, no high interest, etc. So this government has an economic policy, but it also has a way of directing and investing and stimulating how these investments and returning and what the minister was saying... that is, the cost of the investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21802	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21803	Well, look, a colleague of the market has its own legality, and if you start with any stories in the fog that you're going to introduce some real estate tax, you won't freeze the real estate market. Second of all, why didn't you continue the program until you did your program that your colleague Bacic made and the former government on the incentive to buy new apartments? The results were there. You cut it because it was HDZ. Well, you should have continued until you brought in your program. And that's why I said watch every entrepreneurship is a risk. Anyone who enters any entrepreneurial activity enters his own risk and with his own money. Someone's saving, someone's buying shares, someone's entering certain entrepreneurial activities, it's simply a model of the market economy. There's nothing guaranteed that you'll invest the money and it'll come back to you. Well, that's the point of entrepreneurship. But that's why these entrepreneurs need to be encouraged and encouraged. Therefore, when you pull something out of context and finally, I am now completely after your replica sure that you are running the wrong economic policy and that you are on a totally wrong economic path.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21804	Replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21805	My dear colleague Shuker, at one point, you said that some of this condition was costing politics. About that. I agree with you and that is true, only unfortunately the fact that this is the state where we are most costing Croatian citizens, and it is worth saying that history keeps repeating, but each time it costs more and more and more. ... and the facts and that is true, however, when it comes to this today's budget rebalancing proposal, then there is no need to escape from the actual facts that are inside, and I am now talking from the position of Slavonia and Baranja, which is the strategic branch of the agricultural holding and which is obviously not to be particularly explained today by the most undeveloped Croatian region, and then in the draft budget compared to last year we have the situation that we have a reduction of funds for agriculture, by 558 million kuna, and that after the Regional Development Fund has been abolished by the error of the HDZ last government, and we have transferred in the jurisdiction of today's Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds, that in this same division of the Ministry of Regional Development where we should have expected regional differences in Croatia to decrease, we have reduced compared to last year of 120 million kunas. [[You don't understand.]] And what perspective does the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja have when they see this kind of budget rebalance, such items, almost 560 million kunas are lower for agriculture and 120 million kunas for regional development. So that's what we're worried about, and that's what we're looking for in other sources and in other documents, we don't see where it's being replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21806	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21807	Yes, my colleague Buric, I agree with you. The budget for agriculture is reduced, but not as a consequence of structural reforms in agriculture or or reforms in agriculture, or whatever you want to call it, but as a consequence someone said we will not give so much, but so much. Because if the agricultural budget had been reduced because certain laws had been amended, which in some other way was given incentives, and not in the way it was, then maybe it would have been enough, because it might have turned out to be the ones who didn't deserve to get incentives by some standards. And as for regional development, that's exactly what we told Mr. Minister, so he said that certain projects financed from institutional banks are bad, etc. So many items when you look at the budget j removed from several million kunas that amount to hundreds of billions do not look great, but sometimes a million, two kunas to a small unit of local self-government means extremely much to solve your burning problem. And unfortunately, in this budget, Mr. Minister has also disappeared, not by your fault, but by the guilt of resolute ministers, who simply did not recognize this need for money dispersion towards small units. Or, say, take for the fishing fleet the budgets are cut, tomorrow there will be ZERP, and we will all be full of the mouths of protection of Croatian interests and ZERP, so that the Croatian fisherman with that small boat will compete with the Italian. No way. And we can list so many things, and now we're asking one elemental question whether because of the deficits that will be less than 100, 200 million kunas we should take away that little amount of air that gave those units a little bit of air in areas of special state care and especially in that agricultural area to exist, to live, I think that without so certain re-use, that's what I said here openly, that I was saying while I was minister that these incentives of the economy if they didn't aim for someone to take it, do some kind of project... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21808	Thank you. Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21809	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's your colleague Schuker talking about how inefficient the implementation of projects throughout Croatia is on the scene and that without investments there is no safe increase in budgets, or an increase in gross social product. I will give examples of examples of Croatian waters and their investments. Namely the only pilot project in the Republic of Croatia... 45 million kuna is broken, interrupted and not implemented. [[You don't understand.]] He left and did not provide the funds, and you cannot talk about taking care of Croatian agriculture. In the follow-up of the hall, schools, all the projects that were scheduled are interrupted and stopped and will not be carried out in the next two to three years until someone regains consciousness, and even the smallest one that burned in... worth 2 and a half million kuna, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not find 500 thousand kuna to help build the project. [[You don't understand.]] Of course, if 20% of the resources of the Ministry of Regional Development remained neutral and the projects did not go into construction, they are not supported because they are not working. Those who are subject to building permits, who run, and who are due to expire, will surely remain indecisive. Speaking of apartments, 10,000 unsold apartments, 12 thousand and 680 disabled people in the Homeland War are waiting for housing. Let half of it be 6 grand and 300 for apartments or houses they return 20 or 30, you participate 20 or 30%, the rest of them go back through the credit form they're secured, and that's how they get rid of the apartments. But there's no hearing about it either. Building a road or giving in concessions. The concessions should provide unsecured road routes such as Vrbovac, Bjelovar, Virovitica, which is already stranded in 11 kilometers, which has 11 buildings, should have opened an international competition and not finished highways in a concession if there is no money in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21810	Thank you very much. We don't have an answer. Then go ahead. You didn't lift it. Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21811	So even though it's been a long time since my colleague Shucker's basic debate, I still remember what he was saying. He talked about the poor economic situation, the unemployed, the economic growth that is not available, the decline in industrial production, etc. When I listened to that, I wondered, and now I wonder where Mr. Shucker came from in this House? Did he fall off the Mask or come from the HDZ government? Because he spoke as if these were not the same things when he was in the HDZ government for seven years as a minister. The same was high unemployment, a deficit as big as it is now, a decline in industrial production continued, there was no economic growth, etc. And now he's surprised that from once on, there's like he's never been before. There have been before and therefore, of course, still accuses this government of leading the wrong economic policy as if their economic policy had resulted in something good resulting in all that it is and a good part of this problem is the result of this economic policy that your government has led. To take down something takes a little time to build it takes a lot. To change economic policy, it takes much more time than a few months to change the direction of economic policy than this government is in power. Even some things you don't want to see that you've been doing to me on purpose. We deliberately changed our income tax rates because we want to tax those who have higher salaries, not tax those who have average and low wages. We did this on purpose because we want to help those who have lower incomes tax those who have bigger ones. And my salary is 400 kuna less than yours because we have big wages and we should, and you've done it differently, you thought you should tax more people with less pay. We also taxed profit taxes because you didn't want to, because you don't think the owners should be taxed and the workers need to be taxed, we think anyone who hurts should be taxed, including the owners, and that's what we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21812	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21813	Thank you very much. Well, it's very interesting to hear this if you're reducing the first rate from 15 to 12% is not a reduction and that goes directly in favour of those who... I probably don't know how to count. Another thing you can talk about in Croatia by 2008 and after 2008 because what happened after 2008 can be very difficult for someone because we simply entered into a maze into a whirlwind of the global economic crisis and we are where we are. But you also can't deny that the deficit of the 2008 state budget was 0.8%, and these are the consequences of a certain economic policy that you can't deny either. As far as my colleague Jelusic's apartment is concerned, it's the same kind of politics. So one particular group was found in the market crisis, if it can help a construction company to get out of trouble then it might also have to talk to business banks, and also to certain projects to help young people so people buy these apartments because you can't force them to buy them if they don't want to, but if you help them, they will buy them. And I also know that the truth is painful, but the fact is that last year, in the second and third quarter, we had positive economic growth, that the last quarter was around zero, and this year what's going on is happening. And the consequence of what is happening is the consequence of one exclusively guilty economic policy, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21814	The next line has a colleague, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21815	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, you said you asked yourself and us whether the government had real judgments, so in the second part, you made it obvious that it wasn't. I'd say the government had real estimates planning this budget. The estimates were very clear. The estimates made it clear that around 5 000 OPGs would disappear that there would be a further uneven development of the Republic of Croatia were very clear estimates that with the achievement of plan 21 that is that 20 ministers plus the prime minister, they were clear estimates and how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia can endure. It was a very clear assessment because it is most important at the moment since all the blow that came from the government was on Croatian citizens. And it would be logical of this government if it had hit only the countryside and undeveloped areas but it hit definitely every citizen who lives in this beautiful country and who lives harder and harder and harder. The only question is whether it was enough to assess how long the citizens will be silent, how much more they will be able to endure, and what's said next year what you said should be planned, I think it's going to be a big plan for next year because there won't be any more of that vacuum space and what little of the citizens' pockets they've been sucking up this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21816	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21817	Thank you very much. So when you take what an average Croatian household spends and you look at how many prices have gone up in the last few months and how long has the VAT gone, then you will see that the VAT rate is the most affected and the poorest and ultimately the middle layer on which it is questionable whether Croatia has more, you know why it hit them the most? Well, because they didn't have any money for what was before, let alone for this right now. The rich will pay for this increased VAT rate and will pay for both electricity and all together and will not talk about it at all. So the point is whether certain tax steps guess what their micro and brand effects are in the long term looking at. Look at the income from the value added tax and we'll see what happens next month. He's falling because people buy what they have to not buy anything else. Look, we say we don't need to buy this, we don't need to buy this, if over the past years consumption has been a generator of economic growth, and that consumption hasn't been the generator of the deficit of the state budget to understand each other because when you look at certain expenditures of the state budget so when you look at the sources of revenue from which these expenditures should be financed, you'll see that some expenditures are far beyond what we collect and what we can finance from the state budget. Well, at the end of the day, we can already talk about the interest on loans financed by the deficit over the past years being something that is like a domestic sword in the Republic of Croatia to all of us above our heads like some expenditure that is based on certain rights given by those or these governments have been in the budget far above what can be financed. However, we have such a fact with the expenditure side as it has, we can correct it for some amount, and we can no longer correct it, and that is where we and the minister agree. But the question is, how do we create the revenue side to be stronger? Because the problem of Croatia is not the income side, the problem of Croatia is...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21818	Thank you. Replica, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21819	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, you have, like many others, touched this debate in this House, an increase in the price of electricity and so is one topic that has become evergreen for the last few months, and I will touch one piece of information commenting on this from the area of Sibenik-Knin County, for example this year, one that has taken office at the position of HEP in Sibenik-Knin County has found several tens of millions of kunas of outstanding claims and those claims that have been made at that lower electricity price for which you know very well that the outcome of the economic price. You also know very well that in Croatia there are 20 counties, 21 I think, if I am not mistaken and it is very easy to calculate the amount of debt that HEP has is such that no correction of the electricity price has been made, and unless it improves the charge that HEP as an enterprise comes in very unpleasant waters. You also talked about the wrong economic policy. I'm not an economic expert to you, I don't imagine it to myself, but like a man who with caution accesses these subjects, I respect the numbers. I won't judge how many policies the previous governments have conducted, including the one where you've been the minister right or wrong, but I'll notice one fact. The way finance was managed and the way economic policy was run in Croatia has led us to the situation that in 2001 we owed 13 billion and 609 million euros to the outside, and that in 2011, we recorded 45 billion 734 million euros. As a layman, I notice that for those 10, 11 years, that's my opinion, we didn't go in the right direction, and that direction...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21820	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21821	My colleague Baranovic, what I'm about to say, I have no intention of offending you at all, so if you understand that, I apologize to you immediately. Don't get into something you don't understand because what you're talking about is the debt of both Croatian banks and Croatian citizens and Croatian companies and Croatian states and HBORs and all together. Therefore, 45 billion neither did Slavko Linic in the past year nor did I or the Church, so the government participates in the part with one part of it. Therefore, you well know that in Croatia there was a period of expansion of credit debt with historically low interest rates and therefore, if we're going to talk about this debt then we're going to factor it out as much as it's going to waste, then we're going to see that this figure looks different. Also, what was the public debt of the Republic of Croatia before the start of the economic crisis, so before 2009 because what happened afterwards was simply the result of something that you can see that this government cannot prevent either because no one wants any social unrest or this. After all, you're not going to tell me that you're against being paid to pensioners because the Pension Fund is in a deficit of 16 or 17 billion kuna, and the government budget deficit is 14 billion kuna. Therefore, any thing can be answered with numbers only you know what, the number is an extremely powerful weapon just needs to be used well. And as for HEP, so ask your party colleague who led HEP, he had exactly how much the citizen owes, how much he owes the economy. So, did you try or didn't try to charge, can you charge from those who don't have, that's another pair of shoes. You can't say that you discovered unpaid funds, it just exists, it's inside the records, and don't ever talk about unsettled finances again, because if we can be proud of anything in Croatia, it's public finances, and after all, for those public finances, we get all the compliments. And look at some more colleagues, Baranovic, look at the State Audit report, and you'll see that the Ministry of Finance always has...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21822	Thank you. Replica, Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21823	Comrade Shuker, I don't want to offend you either, we've known each other for a long time, but you are really suffering from a particular disease called memory optimism. It's good for you, it's bad for the rest of you. Remember those blubbers, the bits that are good, and they were rare during your reign. All the other amnesia, forgot. You claim that this ship, which is called Croatia, is now navigational and led by some officers on that ship, has sailed as you said in the waters of the wrong economic policy, while you were one of the main people on a ship called Croatia and transported by Croatian citizens, you were like in the waters of real economic policy, and the ship... broke, crushed, the citizens are half drowned and still suffering from nightmares, but it is not your fault. Like you said, they flew into my maze of the world's economic crisis. Look at the wonders, it's not our fault. You told some colleagues not to count for some years because it wasn't your fault. Well, these were endless debates in the Parliament, remember, whether we're a recession or a crisis, so we're not, we're outwitting, the ship's sinking, and the crew's cheering. And then you say you're still accusing us of this. No, we're not accusing you, but we're now saying what it was trying to remind you of what the condition was when you were. We're not accusing you. At this point in time of the crew, one large part of the crew is tried in Croatian courts. Which is why, because of the vacuuming of those who were on that ship, they are citizens of Croatia. They're not mammals. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21824	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker Thank you. [[Invadica Jurjevic: And they are mammals because they suck up their citizens, and you will get it wrong.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21825	... Optimism is not a disease, optimism is the grace and praise of the dear God who has it, for one who has no optimism is difficult for him. [[Specially enabled.]] But if you're talking about optimism as a disease, then I'm really afraid it's going to be with Croatia, and you also know one thing. She has the Bible "Let the First Stone Throw One Who Is Sinless". And that's what I'd tell you from the SDP. There's also your food chain, so I wouldn't mind commenting. And as far as economic policy is concerned, everyone ran their own, citizens rated it in the elections, we had our results. You have your results just don't know, I don't understand why you're so afraid of the truth when you're told. Because look, it would be good if you learned from our mistakes, and then Croatian citizens wouldn't pay twice if you said it was bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21826	Replica Ivan Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21827	Comrade Shuker, it's so nice to see you watching these last 40 minutes rest, a lot of confidence, smart you have a solution to all the problems. If someone who hasn't been in this country for ten years would probably say so why didn't they put this man as finance minister, you see that everything he knows, all the solution and problems he can solve and all the solutions he has. Croatia would be out of crisis very quickly. You really don't remind me a bit of that man who was the finance minister from 2003 to 2010 when you were nervous, angry, and you had no solution for any problem that was in your area. From 2003 to 2010, this was the time when the first 5 years were the take-off of the economy, when they were lightning increases in the budget and man would expect that a certain surplus in the budget could occur at that time. Nevertheless, you have increased the deficit. I still remember your press conferences that you very often had how you managed to raise the loan successfully and further borrow this country. I must tell you to your disappointment that in Slavonia and Baranja you are safe, and probably in other parts of Croatia in these 20 years of Croatian history, the most hated minister of finance. Slavko Linic is not in the game yet, because he is only a year away, although in these years, what he has shown has good predisposition to at least equalize himself with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21828	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21829	Well, I think this high house is under every level to argue with guys like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21830	And Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21831	Of course, there are no other characters in this tall house. These are parliamentary deputies elected by Croatian voters. But I'll just take one sentence and first of all you can see where this new Rules of Procedure has brought us. We haven't even finished arguing in clubs that this is becoming a slowly one theater of absurdity. On the other hand, only one sentence you said the 2013 budget would be the nightmare of Slavko Linić. It won't be his nightmare, it'll be the nightmare of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21832	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21833	I'm not going to tell you that you're a character. I'm going to tell my colleague, Vinkovic. I said that, I'm sorry you didn't react to some things before that. I didn't react either, I kept quiet. Therefore, I have said what is true, and that is that the 2013 budget will be unfortunately for the Minister of Finance primarily the nightmare. Because he's the one who's got to make sure it works. Everyone else just spends and wants to be successful ministers and they'd spend it all the way out. It's his nightmare, he's the one who's worried. He's just a potter in one boiler room and he lays down an oven and warms the rest while he's got coal. When coal disappears then people freeze and it's true and I've said it outright here. And my God, let's go dig it up. [[Invader Vinkovic: Gone long ago.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21834	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Finance Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21835	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In this part of the response to the HDZ Club debate, try to tell about economic policy, is that the backbone of everything. Therefore, this government would indeed say that it expects development only through state investments did not say about private investments. You will see for next year we say private investments. And why not private in 2012? So for the simple reason that 44 billion blockades, 50 billion tax-based unpaid claims, a completely halted economic activity in the good part of the company, a completely halted construction sector, the number of unemployed around 300,000, and that was all the result of the end of last year. And at that point, you are assessing that you first have to deal with the private sector, actively deal with the private sector so that you can expect any interest from it, any contribution to economic growth. And that's why it's not a wrong decision, it's an assessment, and in that part, we got a good guess, in part I'd say my own contribution through government deductions. The company obviously didn't. We overestimated ourselves. So let's try to tell you where the private sector was in 1.1 this year. Let's start with construction. Stopped construction sites, suspended construction on all projects without money, not paying its suppliers, not paying business banks, not paying government commitments. Yeah, that was the construction sector. Petrochemy one in agony, we remember it well, the other here today, about 150 million kunas of loss. It's Petrochemy. We want to talk about the wood-processing industry? We want to talk about the textile industry? They do not fully pay liabilities either by taxes or by bank obligations or by creditors, but at least they manage to pay their salaries in one part. The food industry is the only one standing a little better. Why? Simply because she turned around and was present on the domestic market, well organized, well run simply by that industry that survives this trauma and tragedy. Shall I continue? Yes, you can't expect such an economy if you don't invest in it any investments in 2012. Now, that's where we differ. You didn't give a message to the HDZ Club, obviously, that 2 billion reduced contributions are nothing. Contribution to forests, water, monumental rents is nothing. On the other hand, HBOR, Minister Schuker warns that we are investing too much in HBOR. Yes, that's right, we've been investing 14 years of loans in tourism, 3 percent interest, far away I'd say on the edge, on the edge of what we're getting like I'd say potentials in HBOR that we're also sharing risks with business banks, so we're all going into joint projects from engineering, electricity, to what companies we're dealing with. Yes, we provide long-term loans and cheap loans. Also with the National Bank 6.5 billion we secure that liquidity will rise. And what can we conclude? Bank interest up to 5% of HBOR 1.5% on average below 4%. It's all incentives, enough money, and in some ways we have a simpler and cheaper interest. So that's what we're fighting for. So in the end, when we estimated that all of this didn't work out, we went into it and I'd say the Financial Business Act where banks and states are now preparing models to eliminate their claims. Either cut or enter capital or extract unnecessary assets. And everything just to train the private sector. We deal with it all the time. I'm not going to talk about meetings and meetings in an attempt to save the Designer, change the owners of the Designer, and that's why we've held some projects even though they haven't launched a shovel in 10 months on any construction site. So we made a mistake here because we should have introduced those who would have worked so we wouldn't be late with the investments. The HBOR Dalekvode provides guarantees for out-of-work because the banking system does not want because it is too risky. Yes, these are all measures that the state implements towards the private sector. But it's nothing. Why is it nothing? Because we said that these same directors wouldn't eat in restaurants and refuse taxes. What did we say about these executives not driving in expensive cars and refusing taxes? Yeah, that's what we said. Because since we're making so much money, since so much effort is being made to pay for it, then we don't think there's any need for directors to enjoy it, there's no need. And all the stories that they need to develop a job we don't accept. That's true! With this we may be punishing a successful company whose sanctions are not needed because it is responsible but most Croatian companies are in such trouble. And then on, shall we keep talking? The tax press is called the discipline of payment of contributions and taxes. Now I ask if the tax press is just a tax charge so that we can have income, or if that is the question of the biggest loyal match on the Croatian market? How many companies because they avoid, work on black, don't pay contributions, take jobs with successful companies? Disabling the development of successful companies? Yes, the government's problem is also a loyal match. The Croatian market has no loyal matches. Foreign investors say we do not come to Croatia because you support an unfair market. You don't control the system. Yeah, we changed that this year. It's okay. It's okay. The truth has resulted in 3 billion higher incomes. Not because the National Bank paid 480 million but because we were responsible for the creation of a loyal match in Croatia. Okay, that's what we're different about. So I'm not going to talk about the reprogrammes that we immediately gave the first days, the first months of our activities were to give them the opportunity to reprogram their obligations for 3 years. It's all the beginning of work, turning to the private sector because we're trying to prepare it for the private sector to go into investment. This whole year we've been fighting. And let us be sure that some of us are optimistic. And we're not afraid. 500 people in the administration are going to work the day of the night, we're going to do it all. It's always a question of whether we have responsible people in these companies. But we give advice, communicate, work, and by April the situation will be changed significantly. So, all our work we've turned to the consolidation of the private sector. And expenses please remember the fiscal rule applicable to the 2012 budget. We forget that there is a rule, and that rule tells you independently of our incomes could be 10%, full money budget could be, our debts are too big and then it's always a question of what we're going to do with our expenditures. We made that rule in this house, and it binds us. And maybe two words about pay. Yes, today I expected the government to attack because we didn't burn 1.6 billion health care, because then we could cover a lot of things and then we'd be quieter for that part I'd say responsibility for regional development and the back part that we should go to sleep peacefully because of the fiscal rule. It was supposed to cut the salary, that it was a process that lasted, but what I can say by the end of the year thanks to the changes in the law, the tenacity, you know when the president of the education union tells you that we... 17 times to harass them because we're bringing them to meetings, trying to talk about that it's time to change something, and by the end of the year, there's going to be assumptions that they're getting paid, and there's a possibility of that being created. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21836	Thank you, Minister. A few minutes ago, he stopped the transmission on HTV and I'd like to inform you about it. And now, slowly from one to ten, we cross the line. First colleague Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21837	Honored Madam Vice President. In the age of this apology so that no one would be offended, I see that you rebuked me when I said that the government doesn't understand the view, by the way, the Prime Minister told us several times that we have to understand, so he's also telling us that we don't understand something, that's not a bad communication, we understand that we can speak this directly. That we understand each other. What I'm saying, Mr. Minister, is that you understand and you don't have the courage to come to the third one, the question of the 4 billion you've denied to health care, or the two billion you've reduced at the expense of the reduction in contributions, so that's what you'll pay health care to pay from the tax on real estate, etc. You see what you understand that you can't save something important in health care if you don't reduce your rights, you know that, but you don't have the courage, or you have the bad advisors. If I were that kind of government brain then I wouldn't go to that variant of solving things, but we should cut the rights to our patients, say two, three billion kunas in healthcare without any problem so that no one else's hair would fall off their heads. And specifically if my 81-year-old mother-in-law hurts her elbow, she has a right to be treated in spas, say, in... , with all the costs that it costs there for three weeks, there are more physical beds in Croatia than in Japan, and we have to tell the Croatian people we can't pay so much and no one will get hurt, we'll give it up, and you've made a mistake of cutting even wages, you've made a mistake in reducing the contributions that you'll collect from these contributions you won't get, you'll have to ask for that debt to pay back in London again, and that's why you reduced the rights... [[You don't understand.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21838	Replication response, Minister Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21839	This reduction of rights, than what you're... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21840	Comrade Marasović, take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21841	Investments, and that apartment I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21842	Comrade Marasovic, to be clear, these are the differences in politics. This government will reduce the burden on the economy, as it is those who must invest and move on, a contribution to health care by the end of the term to 7%. And there's a message from the government. You don't have to agree with that, and you can continue to burden your policies with the economy, but that's the difference. The private sector will not invest, the parties will not come if their healthcare is paid by workers, and that is a change. It's a change. And when you talk about health care, health dues are 5 billion kunas, 5 billion kunas to be paid, and we're going to pay, because 5 billion kunas should pay the economy that's waiting for 500 days to pay their bills. That's what we have to take care of, and by the end of the year they'll be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21843	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21844	Thank you very much. First to you, Madam Vice President, the information transfer is to HRT 3 so your colleagues know. As a matter of fact, my colleague Linic is not opposed to the price of work, but something we keep repeating, and you just don't want to hear it. So two and a half billion kunas when spoken on the pile are big money, but unfortunately they are scattered to 200 and a few thousand more economic operators paying for health insurance, and when we take effect, no one is in favour of chubby geese lugging their necks, but you can't say that certain changes in value added tax have not affected entrepreneurs who do so in purely economic activity. Another thing about energy prices and these changes to the Income Tax Act and some other changes are financial when you take one medium-sized company in the Republic of Croatia far more burdened than these 2% helped. So that's what this is about, nothing else. And you can do the math, and you'll see it's like that. And no one in the HDZ is against discharging the labour price, only you know well that something very important to the nation is being financed from the health contribution, so you always have to say what it will be paid for. And then you are asked one basic question whether at this time the fiscal capacity of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies is such that through some new kind of tax they can cover this minus. Nothing else. So that's what this is about. I know it is your intention, but then publicly say that through the real estate tax, the one that is being introduced would cover this section for health care, but at this point, one fundamental question is whether Croatian citizens have that money. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21845	Replication response, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21846	The entire term of office reduces 8 index points of healthcare, that's over 10 billion, with over 10. It's also in.../NO of course./..., and an individual huge amount, therefore it's always a question of whether you can do it at once or whether you'll do it year after year. Therefore, the government's message is that the government's policy is to halve clear healthcare on pay and pass it on to other taxes, so we differ here because someone who seeks private sector investment must then give him the opportunity to have an interest in creating in the Republic of Croatia. With this kind of workload he's totally uncompetitive, totally uncompetitive because it's not a net work problem, but it's a gross pay problem. The biggest problem contributes. So this government is going to do it, and you're going to see there's going to be results. At the same time, nothing is burdened by the economy. As soon as it's loaded? The price of electricity was not going, the citizens were going. The price of gas you'll see in the course of this year is still going down. I would not like to talk about the INA-MOL contract I apologize to the state of MOL regarding the price of gas and essentially insufficient competition of gas in Croatia that holds the high price of gas destroyed by Petrochemy that the price of gas goes down and will go down just have to let the rest come to the Croatian gas market. Therefore, the main battle is for energy in Croatia to also be in the environment. Yeah, and that's government policy that's investing in government. Of course, truth is a huge burden on citizens because they didn't have an economic price not on the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21847	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21848	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's only two, three remarks. You said that where he was this year the construction sector and that he should have been definitely tied exclusively to private entrepreneurship. I'd say that's not so much in the 100%-ton part, and I dare say that because I come from a little town where at the time of the recession we managed to bring even a foreign investor into that last time this year and we've worked very hard to make something like this, but we haven't succeeded even though we've created good conditions. But I would refer here to budgeting and items in that program section. Well, I think the construction sector is particularly dispersed in Croatia, and it's not because of whether it's incompetence or whether it's intention or something but inactivity is certain to give individual resistors in the government. Because it is inconceivable that the Ministry of Regional Development did not launch any projects that last year, local self-government in the 6th month gave a huge number of projects that invested huge money for project documentation for building permits. It is also not normal to continue the trend of blocking public procurement in the state commission. There was something that could have been solved, and there's the same huge number of projects that are standing. All of this resulted in one stop to this investment cycle, all of which resulted in the destruction of businesses, all of which resulted in the decommissioning of jobs, and at the end of all that, we got, of course, bigger and stronger taxes, bigger and stronger burdens that are definitely impossible to bear. So I think the good part of that problem is, in fact, in the resolution ministries in the government and that's not where the job was done. Whether it's on purpose or because of incompetence, we can assess it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21849	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21850	... And that we have some kind of slowdown. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I'm not talking about the Public Procurement Act, because it's being abused, and it's being abused by these same businessmen. The one who loses that must be complaining, the proceedings are being dragged away. That's enough, for example. mention the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to build spaces to control the phytosanitary regularity of the food and livestock. Objects 5 times 6 what you say ground floor you know how many 2.5 years are done. You know how we're going to speed up now because it's a commitment to be finished, and they haven't even started building yet. Anything to piss off and work on what is said by a knife method without a competition without anything, etc. That these are procedures, the procedures we've introduced that we're victims of, and all of this needs to be changed. Where the future of Croatia's entry into Croatia is really at stake, we can go beyond. Then it's abuse, then it's bribery, then it's corruption, then it's a matter of trust. Yes, we created such procedures ourselves. The administration is also an obstacle to us, and that's what the locals tell us, but that's something that needs to be changed, but obviously it's going to take a lot of time and that we're the slowest. So when you're talking about... so you should say it's changed and the flat-rate amount, the greater possibility is given. Entering the VAT payment rate and the amount to which you can afford all of this we have changed and a series of additional measures for entrepreneurs. So we were very careful. You have results, you have more entrepreneurs than the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21851	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21852	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here you are, Mr. Minister, talking about the projects that have been stopped, the closed construction sites. I would just like to repeat and emphasise that the construction sites are closed when the 2012 budget has not provided the funds for the construction and continuation of the construction of the fast road or for irrigation... for which no sufficient resources have been provided to continue the work that was under way. Their conservation of these projects costs just as much as it should be provided in the national budget for 2012. And there were dozens or hundreds of jobs lost, especially on this road, which means life is the breadth of the housewives. As well as projects that have been through the European Development Funds and the Ministry of Regional Development, neutral funds. Why is it that when there are real projects that we nominated through the counties and two hundred of them stand, building permits expire, they will have to be restarted or repeated, re-expended funds, and thus cannot be sure to get a positive balance in the budget, people cannot be employed, and that all contributes to further unemployment and further undevelopment of these areas that I am talking about, and this is the County of Viritarian-Podravska and brings new unemployment. It also carries new problems in bringing farmers in, given that two years later projects will be delayed if a tender for its implementation is even launched.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21853	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21854	I'd love to meet you personally about every project you have, so I'll be able to answer you because there's no minister in charge. But if Croatian waters have a greater deficit in these changes... for 800 million means the projected funds that were not smaller than in 2011, we increase 800 million then we need to explain that there is no means, that no one wanted to do it. So I'm saying about your project I'll talk about but the facts only speak Croatian water 800 million. The Croatian roads also have an increase and have an increase in deficits because... we provide additional funds, but for example why it is not continued towards the plates, why. We were trying to save the constructor that was destroyed last year, who left the site, did not want to move, and the entire Ministry of Economy, Finance and the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Affairs is trying to find a solution to the constructor's survival. To survive, to remain a worker and remain a firm, to come from Split. Shall we move on, Dalekvod? There's no need to keep going because it's my day-to-day job. Otherwise, I'm the finance minister, usually not so much we let ourselves go into saving the company, everyday talks with banks, etc. Yes, we do, it's a problem why there are no individual investments and why some investments haven't been made. We want to say that when I arrived at the Methković customs crossing, you know what I did, I chased the builders first because they didn't do anything, they went with the prices of dumped and asked for an increase first because they were surprised at the works. Yeah, that's what we've been doing all year, all irresponsible chases. Where we have a commitment to the European Union and we have introduced other builders and we have tried to meet deadlines because we are talking about it, that's life, and that's the truth. And about your project that you're talking about, I'd love to talk to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21855	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21856	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's dinner after years of medical experience, I learned about a new diagnosis that, of course, does not exist in the international classification of disease, which is optimism, and I was already hoping that our finance minister had taken up optimism, but then in the analysis of cancer diagnosis, and cancer requires rapid therapy. You've had time to diagnose Mr. Minister, you're 8 years old, you've done some tests before, while you've been vice president and this requires quick therapy, urgent, quick therapy, and that's the tsunami of the investment you've been talking about, not, of course, tax tsunamis. The other thing, one thing I liked was that you said that the food industry is in some way as stable as possible, but I want to say that there is a problem in the food industry, which is a lack of raw materials because unfortunately because of the situation in agriculture, milk production, meat production, etc., unless we think that our milkers will be mixed milk powder imported or otherwise raw materials will come. And I have to deny you that it hasn't been poorly managed since 2004, there have been increased quantities of milk here, the quantities of other products have been increased, but unfortunately, at the time of the beginning of this year, it has fallen drastically. Here's the problem, and that's why I'm appealing to you to do something about that strategic branch that we all swear to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21857	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21858	Many doctors find it very difficult to diagnose, so I've heard it's not optimistic, so he's optimistic, so he's not scared, and that's the problem, the patient dies before the diagnosis is established. So it's up to you to keep thinking about which diagnosis you're going to give me. But the basics are very clear, for the government of Mr. Zoran Milanovic there are no simple obstacles that we will not pass. So we push optimism, push the battle for development, push the battle for the workplace. We're estimating the situation alarmingly, but we're offering solutions and we're going to make it. It is the work of the government of Zoran Milanovic. We've been diagnosed correctly and we don't brag, it's not easy, but we don't say we don't know how, we don't call anyone a predecessor but we're talking about what methods we're going to solve. So we were able to diagnose what was missing from many doctors, we suggested therapy, treatment, treatment, now remains to be seen if we will succeed because the treatment still doesn't last a day. And what I'm saying is that there are optimists here, we're going to cure this economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21859	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21860	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. Well, now there's no cameras except for these constituencies, so we really need to exchange certain findings. You mentioned not in your speech but in your replicas, I guess I'm allowed to look back a little bit. Gas contracts, you know that as Minister of Economy and Past Government, we didn't consume. On the contrary, the conditions of the gas contract and yet we increased the mining rent, you know which one should have if you were watching that gas master agreement contract that was meant to be. And despite that gas deal, we didn't raise the price of gas. Why, at that time, because INA had 2 billion kuna gains and who we could explain to in crisis conditions that it was important and necessary that year as well as HEP and its billion kuna profits. Someone mentioned this in the middle of the economic crisis in 2010 that we need to increase the price of energy in addition to that in spite of the gas contract. You're talking about Petrochemia and the loss of 150 million kuna to up to 150 million kuna loss. So you know what's causing it. So the reason for this is the increase in gas prices this year and the conditions under which Petrochemy had to buy gas. And that it will be possible to buy cheaper gas that we made possible by building an interconnector when gas will start to be bought on the free European market from Gazprom and anyone else. Have you diagnosed or analyzed the economy you found? To remind you of 12 and a half percent you have fewer building permits issued than it was last year. Last year, we had a small in two quarters last year but still growth. That's what you found. What did you do to make it all go down together this year? You have 11% less industrial production than bad and inherited last year. What did you do? You have 11% less exports.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21861	Thank you. Replication response. A fellow drinker's out of time. The reply to the replica, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21862	Well, then, when you want statistics on the last quarter, the last one in 2011 was tragedy and trauma and it continues today. So, I don't mind if you keep fighting statistics to see when this whole thing goes down, when the construction season's over, and then we'll see what's causing it. But just for your information, by taking over the gas business, you've raised the price of gas for one kuna, you've raised the economy by one kuna, by the economy, by the economy. And the economy is called Petrochemy Kutina, DEOKI, cements, sugars, and not to list everything else. The citizens didn't get it up, that it didn't rise because social policy was being conducted, but the economy raised one kuna. We're talking about that price hike. In this year's economy, the price of gas drops, check it out and you'll see. So there's the problem. There's a warehouse where the monopoly has INA, only it can store. We can have the interconnectors we want. But remember, we need warehouses. We didn't make them. 500 million we gave INAs to the Environment and it has a monopoly until next year and no one else can have gas there other than natural gas, etc. Also, we've entered the Annie who's holding a deal with the MOL, so we have a high price. We dropped the Russians. We want to talk more about the gas business.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21863	Martina Dalic, replica. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21864	Dear Mr. Minister, it's too late. I kind of quickly lose my will for these discussions that come down to what would be, but good. I guess that's my problem. But I wanted to say, in fact, and maybe offer an explanation of one part of this occasional bile debate, which concerns these investments. In time before the crisis, Croatia was one of the four countries with the largest investment in Europe and was absolutely with the biggest state investment. It was considered a political mile of great success because everything looked great. The result is long. And then after that, everyone was amazed by the debt that came into existence. In this explanation of the budget for next year, state investment is mentioned 13 times and is expected to start the economy in the same way. And if you ask me this whole debate about the nature of economic policy about 60% is based on it. We tried that recipe once, and frankly, I don't believe that state investment will start to grow because we did this experiment and it resulted in an inefficient type of growth and debt. And what I'm afraid that this example will happen again, because state investments will basically produce the same result. And that's why I don't see the point of that debate between HDZ investment projects and now these other investment projects that will be better, more successful, more efficient. I doubt it because the state sector and the state investment bear the same ineffectiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21865	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21866	State investment was also a good part of road infrastructure, and let's be honest with the oversized funds, a very big burden. But what we expect is perhaps as a tourism infrastructure that this can mean stronger investment in tourism, in buildings and in the possibility that we can have bigger revenues than tourism. So one investment that can have an indirect effect. When we talk about new investments that the state needs to encourage, it's primarily energy. It is unacceptable for Croatia to import 60% of electricity. It's just unacceptable. Why? We've got enough water flow, we've got enough gas and we can build it ourselves. What is most important in such construction is domestic builders, they are simply domestic cable manufacturers, domestic electric equipment manufacturers, engineering equipment, mostly domestic ones. What's important is that it's not infrastructure, it's a product, it's a product that means smaller imports of larger domestic production, competitive production, and that's why we've solved the issue of price policy towards citizens. We're talking about it. And with the government of Zoran Milanovic saying one more thing, that we will simply worry that we have a monopoly in transmission and distribution, but construction, reconstruction, modernisation and hydropower plants and thermal power plants must be a private-public partnership. We're looking for private partners in this, he's not going to invest in Plomin, he's not going to invest in OMBLU. We just don't have that potential, we need the over-indebted company, we need our partners. We don't need loans, we need investments to make that investment cheaper. That's why I'm an optimist, and I think that program can give you more results.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21867	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21868	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said to the IRS we call tax collection. That's exactly what you just said. I think that tax collection is not a tax press, but it is a sacred task that seems to me to be the IRS, but under the IRS we have called introduction, i.e. an increase in VAT rates on the one hand, on the other hand a retroactive collection of retained profits. And what may be most difficult for Croatian citizens is the announcement of real estate tax. Today you presented a proposal for a Real estate tax law. What seems to me to be bored to read out a certain discrepancy between your attitude and the prime minister's attitude. The prime minister also said that the introduction of real estate taxes will not add to the burden of Croatian citizens while on the other hand from tonight's debate I read, and I may be wrong, but it seems to me that you have done so through a number of debates that you have announced tonight, in order to partially relieve the economy, reduce the rates of contributions to health, and by way of real estate taxes, you would partially compensate for the lack of income in the state budget. And what I disagree with, and I wish I was wrong and you were right, that the introduction of real estate taxes will reduce the price of unsold apartments in the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid it won't be that way because that apartment will still have a owner of ownership, whether it's a bank or some developer who built that apartment, an unsold apartment today or later, a citizen who bought it. The question is whether or not they will continue to be a liability to pay real estate taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21869	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. The reply to the replica, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21870	Obviously, we have misjudged the so-called. immobilized property. Thus, too much property in Croatia, which does not serve as a job, is used for the creation of speculative jobs. We wait for rich Americans, we wait for rich Europeans to buy it. And we say no, rent, give a citizen who needs an apartment in Zagreb to rent it at an acceptable price, we say vice versa if it's an empty hall why you want a new investor to buy, build a new hall when he can get that hall, he can buy it and start investing in machines, in technology. Yeah, that's the difference. And it has a huge number of this property. And over the course of this year, we're going to show what the revenues are and we're going to be able to continue to reduce the contribution rate. They're huge real estate, and that's why that tax. Not to burden the citizens because they will pay either the same or even less, their local self-government will decide on it, they will decide. But those who have a fortune in real estate, whose real estate is served instead of savings on the bank, will pay some taxes. And it won't be a bit. And that's about what you need to understand. It's a message, it's about change. Yes, the private sector will invest, the private sector will have a wealth to create jobs and benefit. Yes, the municipality or the city will get bigger taxes and even from the state, and not if the Department of Defense tells us I'm not going to transfer the property, I won't be needing it in 10 years. Okay, then in the budget, you're going to have a tax ruling and you're going to pay the local self-government unit. Yeah, and we're introducing that, too. We also want to force the administration to either put property into office or pay taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21871	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21872	Well, here's the thing about this state property now, even though I was going to say something else. The opposition doesn't have to defend the budget, and that's quite clear, but if we look at the MPs here, so if we even count the representatives of the national minority Denesh Shaw, then we can see how interested those representatives of the position that should probably be with the minister and defend this budget. But obviously they have better things to do. So about the real estate, you're familiar with that famous former management building of PIK Đakova Mimoz, which has been staring empty since 2000, several times the state has remedied it, and now it's in Audi, the Prime Minister wanted to donate it to the city of Đakov, the former one, provided that the city is denied 26.7 million kuna. So there's also an estimate of that property. And that decision by your government, or by the government by 2003, has never been withdrawn, that is to say, to relocate all state offices, all state administrations in the city of Djakov, and thus the state would save an enormous amount of money used on other properties. So here's another appeal that in this budget right now for this year to remember the decision of the former government of Ivica Racan and to secure that move, normally now that moving will cost something more is once a representative building with the carelessness of the state slowly coming into a completely derutous state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21873	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21874	Now I am glad to support the real estate tax because after today's presentation, Vinkovci has seen that Vinkovci will not have the average municipal fee of the city of Zagreb but is still in the range and that part of the people in the ministry is not working in vain for 6 months and is struggling to really respect Croatian specificities and protect the workers of Croatia, Croatian peasants and those who live and work in their real estate. They're all protected, and I'm sure Audi will hurry up with the transactions so he doesn't pay enormous taxes if he has property that's off-duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21875	On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic and in the second part of Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21876	Thank you. I did not support this property tax, 0.2, and 2%, although Prime Minister Milanovic claimed that we were commenting on something we did not see, but here I will return to the budget, but this is indeed state property at the moment that is definitely failing. The state is the worst master and should first and foremost relocate that building and relocate all state offices to lower costs. It's one way of rationalizing. Normally you'll still have to pay taxes for using real estate, but that's another story. But I will return to this rebalance of the 2012 budget and begin practically with what I was saying about this speaker almost a year ago when I quoted the Prime Minister who then claimed that the state budget was a complex system composed of hundreds and thousands of components that the average human mind sometimes cannot understand. I have already said at the time that the budget is not only economic mathematics of income and expenditure but it is primarily the most important political document brought by one government is one coalition that the citizens trusted in the elections for this Croatian Parliament. And then I said that this budget wasn't real, that it wasn't developmental, that it wasn't social, that the deficit of the budget that was then planned at $9.9 billion, that this budget projected a new debt of €21 billion, and a fictional reduction, that is, what you call a $3.4 billion savings that is not feasible. It was already visible in the 9th month when the Prime Minister himself claimed as well as you as a minister that we had technical problems with the budget, regardless of what we had to pay, and I think it was extremely good that the IRS did not selectively but equally to everyone, but apparently that payment revenue was not so much to fix the picture of the budget. What we received from this main political document, which is the budget of the Republic of Croatia, is therefore not the budget of a cultural and artistic society where it can be missed by 20 to 30% where one event can not be performed, where you do not have to go to a guest in the neighbouring village, town or somewhere outside is the fact that there has been a series of other laws that intended first of all to provide what was written in the 2012 budget. So first and foremost it was her so-called. a minimum tax reform that did not make me say anything revolutionary or the incomes of the local self-government units, although they increased by 1.5% of the income tax and 0.5% of the counties did not increase budget revenue, on the contrary. There I always mention the Lika-Senj County which in total amount, therefore of that income tax increase received only 9 thousand kunas, so that the mayor probably takes nobody to the face of the lamb or will only take them to the potato if a delegation comes to him. Another thing that mini tax reform has affected the decline of standards in school, in health care, although the problems have gone back a long way. So the HDZ colleagues are not exactly that funny, are you, and you have one large amount of responsibility not now for this budget but for the overall situation in the Republic of Croatia. So, above all, this budget allowed constant collection, made it possible to drop gross national income, drop in economic activity, drop in industrial production, drop in consumption, projected new unemployment in the Republic of Croatia, and today, at the moment I talked about the budget, there were about 301 thousand unemployed, today there are almost 350 thousand unemployed. On the other hand, with this budget where all the regions in Croatia are in an unequal position, the more important thing than this budget rebalancing, where the savings you announced will obviously not be met is certainly the 2013 budget, where it is said that growth and GDP projection of 1.8% will return to the tsunami of investments. I don't see a single crane, not a single bulldozer or a bulldozer in state investments, I see public-owned companies, and budget spending is going to be $124.5 billion, incomes are going to be 113, so you're planning a 10.9 billion deficit, and you're practically approaching that deficit that we've had all these years. The fact is that interest is also coming, it's about $9.5 billion, and it's projected to cut employees' costs by 2.3 billion. On the other hand, we have an example where, for example, in petrochemicals are taken on the basis of this savings and not only in petrochemicals but also in the government takes an entire fleet where two cars are luxurious with a precisely marked color, seats cost 1.4 million kuna. So these are the figures that say that neither this budget which was extremely bad, especially for Slavonia and Baranja, which my colleague Buric is going to talk about far more, was extremely bad and for Croatia that we did not make a step any further and more sink into the bottom. And I'm going to mention here's our newest convict, this kind of policy, and this is how we really are gentlemen and ladies in bananas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21877	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. So, my colleague Vinkovic said a lot in the first part of the exhibition, I would just have a few concrete indicators that support our fears that this Croatian government as well as the previous government could be a government that has not understood the problems we have been facing in Slavonia and Baranja for years, and then our fears that nothing will be done so that the development problems and the growing developmental lagging behind of Slavonia and Baranja begin to solve. Here I will remind, in this sense, only the already known fact that for the overall development of Slavonia and Baranja is unusually important agriculture as a strategic branch of the economy and rural development as a whole. So for these our fears to point out what we objectively see in the figures of this budget rebalancing because when we look at today's budget rebalance, when we look at the relationship to agriculture and rural development, then our concerns really have a basis. Because I'll remind you that compared to that budget in 2011, when we were making the 2012 budget, I already said, we reduced the division by about 460 million kuna. Now with this rebalancing, we download another 97 million kuna, that is 558 million, 560 million, that is half a billion in the division of activities that are important for the entire Republic of Croatia, but of special importance for Slavonia and Baranja. On the other hand, I'm going to say something about a national envelope within that. We see that we now have an increase of 130 million... but when we look at what should have been provided in the national envelope to support farmers, it is 2.5 billion, it is so planned to be, and we have been provided in the 2005 budget of only one billion and 500 and now we will have a billion and 600 compared to the necessary 2.5 billion kuna to support farmers then we see that there is nothing of these support for farmers, not even 2/3, then at the level of 64% of the established needs that the Republic of Croatia itself has found necessary to pay, to support farmers. It's not the only thing that worries us. The market intervention position in 2011 was 80 million kuna and was reduced to 10 million kuna, and now this rebalancing wipes out those 10 million kunas. I expect nothing more than for you as Minister of Finance to say okay, it was deleted in that position like you said about irrigation and draining, but it was put somewhere else. However, I can't see or I haven't found it, but I haven't seen where it was put. So with 80 million kunas that were in 2011 we're at zero now. There are also significant reductions in this rebalancing, so when we talk about the funds intended for agriculture and some other items, here I will say only some that are important there, veterinary and food safety, a reduction of 6 million and 300. Agriculture paying agency nearly 12 million kunas, aquaculture development, economic fishing on freshwater, processing... products, fisheries, a reduction of 12 million kunas. Nothing is better when we look at that rural development position that I was saying at the beginning. First we had the state budget for this year to cut the item by 146 million kuna, and with this rebalancing position for rural development another 55 million kuna. So compared to 2011, we have a reduction of 200 million kuna in that position that we see being replaced in another item. We're removing the consequences of natural disasters, I'm not going to waste a special story, especially time on that, but I'm going to remind 20 million kunas nothing compared to needs. I understand that not all of this can be solved, but only in the area of Osijek-Baranja County in 2012 our mayor declared twice a natural disaster in April this year because of those low temperatures, in January and February because of the frost, in April and in 2012 and in July this year an elementary disaster due to drought. And the total estimated damage whether it's objective or not, we can talk about the figures but it's estimated at 800 million kuna. These are data that the mayor didn't release, but that came from the local self-government unit area. And when you see that we have 800 million kunas and 20 million kunas, then those affected by the elemental disaster you have to understand that they really feel rightly concerned and rightly and with the feeling that the state has given up on them and that the state has no right to do so. I'll do the resuming. These are just some figures because we will discuss the important document very soon next week, even more important than this, and this is the 2013 budget with next year's projection. We are in favour of having a balanced burden of crisis, but in two divisions of the ministry of 20 ministries as important as we have to Slavonia and Baranja, agriculture and regional development have a total reduction of 560 and 120, which is 680 million kuna, and we wanted to save, reduce that deficit by 3.4 billion. It is more than 20% only of those two ministries that are vital to the economy of Slavonia and Baranja. And here's something I'm going to tell you, I'm sorry there are no colleagues, Djakic, it's hard to track all the numbers and you as finance minister, because when a question was asked about the Capinci irrigation system -... then you probably missed it too in that project for, or in the projection, in the 2013 budget and was not expelled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are some mistakes, but on the contrary, I am glad to see it as a representative of the HDSSB that this project goes on and on and on for the sake of here and my colleague Djakic and the entire public. Yes, 28 million kuna was secured in 2013 at least as much as we saw in the 2013 budget and the projection for 2014 that there would be 16 million kuna. That's 44. But it's just one drop in the sea. The need needed by Slavonia and Baranja for today's most underdeveloped region to reach other developed regions in the Republic of Croatia. Here's a thank you. I hope that we will have enough hearing here that even when we adopt the 2013 Budget, all arguments will be heard and we will try to accept the amendments to that proposal that will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21878	Thank you very much. Replica Jasen Mesic at the exhibition of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21879	Thank you. Well, maybe if I'd waited for Mr. Buric's debate, I might not have been able to replicate it, but I have to replicate my dear colleague. You'll be crying for HDZ in some segments after the rebalancing of this budget and when the new one comes, you'll cry. Now I'll tell you why. Because when you look at the program, the budget for the Ministry of Culture, I apologize for everything that has been invested in Slavonia and Baranja for the last four years since the investment, from the renovation, and you know well how well it is that I don't now list cities including Djakov. Now look at how much these items are less rebalancing. And why am I saying this, why is it important for Slavonia and Baranja as well as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Because that's the money that goes directly to craftsmen, small businesses that deal with these kinds of works, which are licensed by the Ministry of Culture for that. So I know why I'm laughing. I'm sad and laughing. I like optimism, a look at the future. That's why I'm doing it, but it's gonna be hard for you. Or maybe you'll laugh the same way with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21880	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21881	We don't cry in Slavonia after anyone. We don't even cry from misery, we don't cry from all that money that comes every day to Slavonia and Baranja. It was only 4%, although Slavonia and Baranja is the farthest largest region practically Croatian. I'm not talking to my colleague Mesic about the Ministry of Culture. That's one small part. So the total budget of the Republic of Croatia, so we won't have a poster for the HDZ either, just as we won't have a poster for the SDP. But we can't even laugh about the situation where Slavonia and Baranja are in. Since the once richest region in Croatia, in this part of Europe has become the most lagging region, not thanks to the people of Slavonia and Baranja, but thanks to the central government's relationship with Slavonia and Baranja, thanks to the lack of fiscal decentralisation, thanks to the growing number of unemployed in Slavonia and Baranja every day. Someone was trying to get people to open up cattle, cattle farms. Today, your incentives have been reduced. For this year for a billion and 300. Orders were to be made to pay for the incentives, but no funds for agriculture were to be abolished as basic branches in Slavonia and Baranja. The farm was to be tied to tourism in the Adriatic, so tourists would eat products from Slavonia would not eat from Romania, etc. etc. And the only way Croatia can come out of the crisis is for the problem to be solved in local self-government, in a regional self-government that must have more and more money Final sentence. [[Invader Zgrebec: Thank you very much fellow Vinkovic.]] Some of them are a minute longer. The problem will not be solved in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21882	The replica of counterpart Djurovic at the presentation of counterpart Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21883	Thank you. Well, here's a little bit. You said something to MP Buric about natural disasters and very small amounts that the state paid for the elemental disasters that were moving in the amount of kuna, two, sometimes nothing for a hectare of destroyed crops. I think that the Republic of Croatia has also missed the opportunity to carry out the insurance of agricultural areas, because the Republic of Croatia is probably the only one of the few countries where the insurance companies provide agricultural areas, but not the damage caused by the elemental disasters. At the same time, for example, we could read in the U.S. that the insurance company paid billions of dollars for the same kinds of damages that occurred on agricultural areas. So, this is a Croatian specificity, and the Republic of Croatia, for example, has the majority ownership of one state-owned insurance company that could foster a match on the insurance market and in ensuring agricultural areas from natural disasters. So she had one lever in her hands, the biggest state-owned insurance company she could have started to get into that kind of insurance. You also talked about the figures in irrigation projects. And there's one thing to say. Where's the big resource for savings in the state budget? It's where it's stolen in billions. The irrigation projects in the Republic of Croatia cost abnormally, they're not normal figures. Can't dig canals per hectare cost 10,000 euros per hectare because irrigation costs more than the country's worth. There it is stolen, these are unreally high prices and the responsible state administration could certainly save billions of kunas a year by carefully monitoring these public tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21884	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21885	Yes, it's all true and there really is a whole series of ways that the central government can help if it wants to. We warn all the time that all these years both during HDZ and during the SDP authorities Slavonia and Baranja has been pushed aside all along. Now it continues, according to these indicators, and in these first 11 months of this power. And by pointing out that we want to fix the situation. I was talking about damages, if there was, there's really a whole series of mechanisms to make it happen. We can't, we're talking about how we're waiting for EU entry and then here's the sun to warm citizens in Slavonia and Baranja, and we see that here at this point in the position for these EU programmes we've reduced the position from 30 to 10 million kuna. So one-third. So we're going in completely unprepared. When we talk about numbers here, I'll name the 2011 data when it comes to, say, this elemental damage. I said 800 million kuna for 2012. And let's say in the area, again I'm talking about Osijek-Baranja County we had the same in two and the damages almost 500 million kuna, 490 million kunas of elemental damage from the elemental disasters. And then we put an item in the budget of 20 million kuna. You'd better delete that 20 million kuna, if they're really just symbolic. If it's not, then it's measured. This is just data from an elementary accident for a county. Now imagine for 20 counties. Well, then we'll delete that item better, there's no simple thing to say, than leave 20 million kunas for a space to manipulate to maybe help the environments that they are in, in which perhaps they are in power those that are political to say so more similar to those currently ruling. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja, we don't have that feeling of systematic resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21886	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Finance Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21887	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A few words about the HDSSB club's review. Speaking first of all of the projects that have been reduced in part are they redeployed to other projects and there are certain increases. But most of the cuts are due to pay. Therefore, the government's failure to control wages has also resulted in a reduction in programmes that are not related to the EU because there are other problems but simply redistributions we have made in that part. And apparently agriculture has made the same problem. An increase in wages is the reason for the reduction. It's our failure and there's really nothing to comment on. What we really expect to solve by the end of the year is the question of collective agreements and border contracts and actually implement savings. Because it's the only way that we can actually achieve a part of the projects and programmes regardless of whether it's agriculture, whether it's crafts and entrepreneurship, whether it's some other I'd say the sector like education and health care. Maybe just to point out that it's not just Slavonia and Baranja who lost part of the project. These are the other parts of Croatia. Because there's been a decrease and probably a boost with stronger control, and that's unequivocal. In the next year, I hope it doesn't happen, I hope. Because I'm convinced that with all the opposition from many of you in opposition that we're going to take off our salaries we're going to take them off because I'm just repeating it again and you've been sitting here fiscally rule has been passed to all of us, we've all brought it to you know. We brought that regardless of the recession, regardless of the problems we have to reduce expenditure nominally. Tragedy is that this government has now done not some projects instead of salaries. It took too long for our negotiating mission to try to find a solution for the social partners. You know, we didn't even get support for the Representative Act that gives us the opportunity to essentially put three months out of force all the contracts we disagree with, all the contracts. By the end of the year, this part of the process will be over and we will be much, much more responsible because we can conclude that salaries in the state services and the public sector are not big ones. But we also can't accept that there are people at the Employment Office when it comes to the real sector, that businessmen are farmers, craftsmen who can't pay their wages, and we're in state services having modest but secure salaries. And at the same time where we should give support we weren't able to give. The next year is particularly difficult. Why? Growth interest, shipbuilding obligations again save jobs, commitments to the EU are all new expenditures requiring greater denials, bigger cuts, bigger cuts. You should choose whether to pay for certain programs. And that's where we're aware of what we should do. And in that part, I think that's not the case just for you, unfortunately, that's the case... and in that part we didn't make it. She's gone this year a billion kuna instead of in what needs to be paid... And you can talk about how much we were against or weren't against what it's called the Law on Labour. But this government says we're going to make that decision and there's no other choice but to cut it down. We're having problems with the fiscal rule and next year with a huge pay cut, with a huge pay cut. Therefore, the laws of the Republic of Croatia are here and must be respected. The question remains why have we given ourselves such assignments? And we all raised our hands, you know. We have to make a nominal reduction in expenditures. So I hope you'll criticise the government several times that it wasn't effective in pay control because we really could have done it, we could have done it. It's really our failure, and that's where you can really criticize us and there's no excuse. As much as someone else said that maybe personal consumption would fall another index point, but the money would go where it was meant and where we were now cutting it. I therefore hope that we will not repeat the error in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21888	We have three replicas. First is colleague Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21889	Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. The government's failure to do what it should have done to you is on your soul and on your responsibility but it's no excuse for what we have here today, and in this proposal the rebalancing of the budget is an objective fact that Slavonia and Baranja again won after the tambura, and however you try to justify it, it's an unquestionable fact. And as we have pointed out for the previous 8 years to the HDZ government, it is not fair that for all investments we get for an end that 20% of the population and 20% of the territories are only 4-8% of the total investment, it has crossed over and simply has not responded to it. We now point to you again cannot be a linear cutting of the reduction of regional development projects because then the difference in regional development remains at least the same if it does not increase. Therefore, nothing means to us that you will conclude is only Slavonia and Baranja abolished and others have been abolished. We expected this government to honour Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's words that he would take special care of 23 December last year to lead about Slavonia and Baranja on an end that is not only devastationed by war but is also guilty of politics because of the situation in which she is. That's what Prime Minister Milanovic said, and we don't see it in the budget for this year or in the budget rebalancing. Unfortunately, we do not see much in the 2013 draft budget. I'll just take a look at the 94th party position of regional development projects, so they should be the engine of reducing regional differences in Croatia. And we have a 43 million kuna position abolished on half a million kunas because somewhere else it's open on some but not in that amount it's not for 40 million kunas of regional development projects in any other document. And again, she won the most in the tambouri of Slavonia and Baranja, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21890	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21891	When I was talking about certain programs, first of all, I thought about subsidizing agriculture. When we talk about regional projects, when we talk about irrigation projects and the rest I would not agree with you until the end is simply Croatian Waters and Croatian Roads trying to turn to their projects specifically Slavonia. In 2013, the largest deficit in these two companies will be due to investments in Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, when we talk about projects, we will only place them towards those who can be far more efficient and will surely fulfil their obligations for reasons because they will be in direct contact with local and regional self-government leaders. So let's just not talk about projects because the projects aren't going down in that part. When we talk about regional projects monitored by the EU in that part of the projects were not fully implemented. You know how much control there is for the competent commissions, and that's the reason for the reduction. Therefore, strengthening administrative capacity is the reason that in this year we are obliged to employ over 500 people who will work alone on projects. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance is very interested in paying a billion and 700 million for contributions to the European Union, and if we do not withdraw more than 2 we are unsuccessful. It is something that means that Europe will be a burden to us. It's very important now to be able to withdraw those funds. I believe that in that part at least the people who work on the projects will be sufficiently educated and able and will, together with you and that part.... Therefore, project funding will not be burdened by Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21892	Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21893	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I remember in 2003 when the current Deputy Prime Minister was visiting Slavonia and Baranja, the current prime minister said that in this term, thinking that even though it was possible and formed then only the late Racan would no longer want to play with the unencumbered interests of certain political parties, he said that in this new mandate he would not forget Slavonia. So from 2000 to 2003. Slavonia was forgotten. All the time and you say I hope, the Prime Minister says I hope the ministers say, "I hope we're tired of hoping more." We are the most lagging region in Croatia, and in the budget you cannot take down Istria and Slavonia linearly because it is impossible. The Regional Development Fund should be called a Fund for Slavonia and Baranja. It's the only fact and situation we live in. We'll have amendments to this budget. Don't be the same as Sanader and Jadranka Kosor, no opposition amendment was accepted at the time. Remember a little while you were opposition, not a single amendment. Few of the national minorities and those who raised their hands to maintain the government were accepted. Let go of the amendments, let go of the projects because we have projects. Osijek-Baranja County has the most withdrawn funds from the European Union, so the fact is that we have projects. If I couldn't get the money from the ministry then because I was the mayor of the SDP, now I don't have to win again because I'm HDSSB's. Well, I'm the mayor of all citizens. Come to your senses, let the amendments pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21894	Thank you. Would you like to answer the Minister's question? And the last replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21895	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you are as Minister of Finance to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we are as national representatives responsible to the Croatian people and filling the state budget is the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is our job to try to defend the interests of Croatian citizens and the interest of Croatian citizens to live better. So the primary interest of Croatian citizens and their primary occupation is not whether or not they will fill the state budget, but that this country has at all a sense of life for them and their children and therefore may not be surprised if you do not encounter God knows what kind of empathy you have about the problems you have in your conduct and our duty because we do not actually share that position in the same way or experience it. Our support, and surely the support of Croatian citizens, you will have in solving this failure of public sector wages control if you are counting really high as someone has said to an agent state administration, so with that state administration that has over 200, 250 agencies, centres and similar parausts which have been systematically and continuously formed these past 20 years, and even in this term in this government over the last year, a whole series of agencies, centres and similar institutions have been established and the entire state administrations have not been reduced at all, but some of the powers have been transferred to them and so are constantly emerging new and new. I mean, the list of these institutions is ridiculous, and it's about billions of kunas being paid for wages in these institutions. Minister Bauk announced about half a year ago that he would start a review of it, but that is not as visible as it is, so far there has been no announcements that anything about it has moved. So there could really be one significant reduction space in exactly what you were saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21896	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21897	Don't worry about me, I was the vice president, I was myself and in opposition, so on this side of the pay phone, now I'm back on this one and I'm just trying to explain the government policy of the Republic of Croatia, individual moves, and I always think that each of you can have the right to a different opinion, the right to a different policy and, in fact, let's be honest, it's a lot of scientists who disagree with the proposed policy. It's up to us to try and see who's right and how much we can influence each other. So I don't expect you to accept every policy that's been offered here, but you can also see I'm the person who will always tell you where we're wrong, not to justify myself, but here we've been unsuccessful. I have to say that we did well because we were being criticized that we were unsuccessful in saving 1.5 billion, at least I was hoping you'd criticise us a little bit more. And in this part when we talk, the other part you're talking about agencies, there's too many of them, they're overpaid. We're completely reducing now. We're coordinating our salary with the state administration. And I have to tell you, since 1.1, we've been throwing everything into a joint salary account. The prime minister is particularly angry that he has no record of who gets paid. The coefficients we know, the wages we don't know. We don't know any control on how to pay off, whether to come to work. Since 1.1, everything will be on a unique system. It'll take us some time to get them into that system, but it's going to be a hell of a lot bigger in 2013. It's our responsibility, and I have to say again, according to the old Ministry of Finance, he has to do it. It'll work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21898	Thank you. It's a national minority club and a colleague of Denesh Shaw's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21899	... I will continue with this thought what it is, which the minister has now spoken of about certain institutions financed from the budget. [[Specially enabled.]] The rebalancing of this budget total material is somewhere around 280 pages. I've been looking pretty closely at how far I've come, and the rebalancing, or the budget for next year, of course, I haven't arrived, but I can see from the pages that it's 346. So there are really so many different institutions that are being financed, and there will probably be more of them in this year. I'm the only one who's written what's really impressed me, and I could take out a dozen of them, and I'd actually be happy to get a report of what they're doing, how many of them there are, what their activities are. It shows the activities of the Croatian Network for Mobility of Research. That's so abstract to me. Probably the competent ministry has some sort of review, they have accounts, etc. There's so much about it, but now I'm going back to this minority problem. As regards minorities and the insurance of funds in this budget, we are indeed happy and grateful because the reduction is practically not a full 1% so that for cultural autonomy and for these basic needs minorities are provided with almost the same amount of funds as it was in the previous year. But as a representative, however, I look slightly at the situation of minorities in another context and what I consider to be even more important or least important to the position of minorities in terms of a certain standard of course and with a majority of people where he and I live together. I could already say that there are certain problems and difficulties, although I must stress that as far as Baranja is concerned, I will most fence myself to Baranja and those areas of special state concern where the minority I represent lives. As far as this municipal standard is concerned, these areas as well as social standards or municipal equipment and social standard facilities, I certainly mean the object, the sacral objects. We still have some difficulties here, and these difficulties are most pronounced and precisely in the areas that were occupied, which were the most affected in the war. I've talked about it here before. I have to mention the example of Laslova and Koroja and Bilja and these places where there really is another one, there is one condition that I think that in the next year, two days needs to be changed and repaired. In fact, if I could mention that it was in a broken church in Bilje, and we know that it was an occupied area along Osijek last year, the acacia grew in a broken church. Now we're starting to adapt a little bit, and I sincerely hope that there will be some understanding for other objects as well. It's not about large funds when capital investments are at stake, and I think it's ultimately unacceptable for these areas to look so miserable about both the infrastructures and the facilities of the social standard. Of course, these funds are also provided for sources of these funds to finance these needs in the Ministry of Regional Development, which is available there somewhere 1.3 billion roughly and to the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Infrastructure, there are even over 5.8 billion. And I cannot finally accept the observation that certain obligations have been made for certain capital investment facilities in other areas. Because when you look at the more detailed budget, I really don't want to be particularly hard on anyone, but I have to say it. I have seen in the budget certain investments in ports, in gyms, in closed pools, etc. in Zadar, in Sibenik, in Ploča, Rovinj, Korčula. I think these are areas that can't be compared to Baranja and Slavonia's good part. And now I'd say like this if we had certain damages this year in agriculture, then that sun had to convention exactly tourism. So, in this area, and we've heard the data of the season, so I don't think I can take the impression that we can't find a million or three for the capital facilities in this area that I've been talking about. It is that earlier obligations have been made, but I have a small remark here, because a certain obligation was made towards the city of Bela Manastir. There the square has been torn apart, the contract has been signed and will now expire this term to the mayor and the market will remain as it is, and the obligation is created, the contract is signed. So it just takes a little bit more understanding, and then it's all settled. When mentioned, I am indeed visiting both ministries and ministerial assistants etc. so for these capital investments, we do not fit the criteria, we need to ensure our own participation in these investments, we need to report to European funds, etc. I ask you a local self-government that has no staff or one church community from where it will secure its 10, 20% of 500, 600 thousand, they believe those 30 or 50 people. Well, there's no way. And that's all still broken down during the war. Therefore, it is an objective problem that needs to be resolved in another way. I just have to remind myself a little bit when this budget is shed, let's say you have certain chapters in other areas right here at the Ministry of Regional Development says this way: "Incentives of municipal and social infrastructure on islands and in the coast, below 1. Under 2. Development of coasts and infrastructure projects. Under 3. Integrated development of the local community in the coast. Then support the Port Authority of the Panel for the realisation of trade and transport integration projects." From 10 million to six, but that's pretty abstract for me, I don't know what kind of company it is. It's not my place to get into it. Or, I said already building that closed pool, etc. And when I look at it, I think that really with a little bit, a little bit more understanding could be found for these most critical points, that is, these capital investments in the area of Baranja and that part of Slavonia where my minority lives. Now I'm only going to be free to say two, three words about the small and the economic situation because it's obviously connected to the budget. Baranja has 55,000 acres of fertile ornaments. Of these 55 thousand hectares, 17 thousand are on the Municipality of the Prince's vineyard where I am the chief, it is the only municipality with the Hungarian majority of the population in Croatia. And I don't know 10-ac, 12,000 acres of forest streams, Danube etc. And Baranja Mountain 80% is also in our area. Despite such wealth, however, given the situation in agriculture that we have an unemployment rate of over 20%, we have in those 4, 5 villages 330 and several empty houses and there are over 300 houses in villages where only grandparents live. And we have a great fortune, most of it was given in a concession to a large company that pays for that lease. The lease does not amount to a third of the market price. And so, as well as those others who process these agricultural areas, we either bought or leased from the state or state land by privatization. In fact, the population is already upset by such a situation because there is a huge flow of income from these areas to another area, those who employ a certain number of workers keep them on a minimum salary. Therefore, the budget of the municipality has almost nothing. And of that great wealth, the total revenue of the municipality's budget is 800,000 kuna because we share it with the state. Here I am just running, I have to say here, one initiative not to ask for funds just to seek consent, to amend the rules that the representative body of the local community can in a certain way take hold of so that, realistically, those who earn, who exploit this wealth, participate in meeting these particular needs in sport, culture and local communities. I feel like it's not working, it's not going to work. I can hardly explain it to the very people who suggest it themselves, who have 500, 600, 700 to 1000 hectares because you can't ask those who live on welfare. Therefore, I must stress these moments. And yet to express my little disdain in these materials and in this budget there are many items related to non-erable shipping lines, which is absolutely necessary. I have written, for a month and a half I have been waiting for a response from the Ministry of Transport regarding the connection of the White Manastir with the Pechu in Hungary because our students, students and otherwise different relationships because our exiles lived in Hungary and we are announced and we are afraid that the 8th 12th railway will be lifted. And for that reason, I've activated myself here, but I haven't had any response to any possible interventions in a month and a half. I hope they get there these days. And I'd like to stress one more moment about illustrating the situation in which we are Baranja. You all must have been or heard of the pearl of nature about the Dirt. I'd like to see who hasn't been to come and visit that village of Kopačevo on the edge of Lake Kopačko so that it can see what it looks like to have that population there, what their paths, their footings, their lighting and these basics and those other two villages that are on edge. I feel like it's somewhere else, so I'm not gonna be mean in some coastal area, I guess there'd be some moving stairs for these tourists if I could get to the lake. And I have to say that recently, I had a conversation and a meeting with a fellow friend of mine from the coastal area of a small town, and he told me that there are 15 circulars in that small town... of this rotor as far as traffic is concerned. We made one so we're very happy, people started to spin in it looks nice and so on. And he says he needs more of his community or the city just one thing to do then he's completely solved it. I admire that and I'm glad. And I've seen them because there's fountains and everything, and that's all right, but there's really these big differences, and I'm appealing here already because I'm saying it for next year's budget. to try to see the situation. [[Employer: Bring fellow Shaw to the scene.]] I'm sure we'll come to an understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21900	Yeah, you should take care of the weather. The replica of counterpart Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21901	Dear fellow MP, let us thank God for hearing that from the ruling majority's representatives. You have now spoken in a way that all MPs from Slavonia and Baranja, regardless of which political option the position or opposition belong, should speak objectively. I just hope that even when you vote, you don't get to complain to you right now if you can make a deal later, I beg you simply. So I hope that even when you vote you will behave and raise your hand according to what you are now saying will not happen as when you adopt the national budget for 2012 when it is up to our amendment to build a bypass around the city of Nova Gradiška Mayor of Nova Gradiška raised his hand against it. But here you are, as far as I know, the club and the National Minorities' Club and the Independent Representatives' Club, right? After discussions like this, I think you can come to the third club at the HDSSB club and if you raise your hand clearly for the amendments that the HDSSB club will raise, and it will be very interesting to see that all 21 other representatives except us 7 who come from Slavonia and Baranja will vote when we vote on the amendments to the projects in Slavonia and Baranja. Here I am pleased to have another from ruling counterpart Hajdukovic, I am convinced that for all the projects in the city of Osijek, especially as part of the election campaign as mayoral candidate, all of our demands will be supported and that they will be in line with his one, Hallelujah, that there will be no later surprises. I want you to do what you have now said about Baranja and indeed you are submitting amendments to projects in Baranja not only for your municipality but also for all of Baranja and then to support everything that comes from Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21902	Thank you very much. The answer to Denesh Shaw's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21903	I agree with your findings, and I'm glad you mentioned it because I forgot something. Construction at Batina port, I supported it even though it was your proposal and I sincerely hope there will be an understanding. This construction has been going on for three years, and when we look at the materials, how much resources are being allocated to the ports of large ports, which is fine with me from Sibenik, Zadar, etc. I hope that Luke in Batina will come to an understanding and that maybe in a year, we too can accept the ships. And I'm sure I'll support that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21904	Both the HNS club and counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21905	Honorable vice presidents, respected ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. So here on behalf of the HNS Club after 5.5 hours as 9th in a row, therefore it is quite clear that the changes and additions of the national budget for 2012 were not only the subject of the debate can be said on behalf of the club regarding changes and additions but in essence for one analysis of the work of the ministries or governments related to essentially our coalition and that we or we have not realised because when the report on the implementation of the state budget is likely to be what it is always, and that is currently much more than what we are discussing today. So, changes and additions to the budget as the introduction said and how the minister kept repeating it, which is that it came absolutely and realistically and truthfully and that in those segments in which it was not realized what was wanted and which was clearly said self-critically or how you want it not to have been done. But what is crucial to this budget, I will not enter the items specifically, but it is clear that the deficit was absolutely maintained below 10 billion as that goal, one of the main objectives that was the budget. In any case, expenditure must be controlled and we absolutely support it and we will continue to support it because the budget is the prerequisite and is also a developmental one. It is a prerequisite for the stability that we have managed to maintain, and not only in the talks with all the agencies that give ratings, which affect that part of the capital costs, i.e. interest, which affect not only that our interest is not growing but that of the future, not only for the state, but for the economy, for the citizens, to remain the same and possibly less, and also for those loans that ensure that the HBOR is extremely favourable to transfer to the economy, in order to ensure the possibility of restructuring. This was one of the key tasks of this budget to ensure the stability of finances other than, of course, financial discipline and the fulfilment of fiscal rules. And that's the budget and with this rebalancing, it's assured that with all the changes and additions and new laws that tax reforms make, which for investment, which for competitiveness we can optimistically, but realistically look towards next year that we will be able to provide room for reach for investors and foreign investors. This was essentially one of the biggest tasks of the political budget which is not a story but is concrete and where only now foreign investors and domestic investors know that this government is absolutely consistent behind the deficits and for its policies, that there are no critical points, that they can be stable and determined to enter investment cycles because it is, of course, an investment cycle not only during the period when the investment is working but it is particularly critical when it has to start coming back, when investments have to return. And that is why all those laws that have been passed specifically to stimulate investors, the exemption from profit tax plus the release of reinvested profits are elements that can clearly be expected to develop and invest from the private sector in the coming year. It is clearly said that the public sector is not the part of the investment that we have planned but that for subjective but objective reasons, because, in parallel with this, it has gone into reform and what is important, it has really gone into reform and restructuring of the public sector, and this is an indication that next year we will be able to say that we have done so. As regards this budget and macroeconomic policy, it should be pointed out in particular that the public sector has begun to behave in the way in which the private sector actually behaves, and this is the same message from this government and the message from this budget that there are no more subsidies or grants there to cover the dubiosis. Clear and responsible for public sector work is introduced, and what is being monitored, what will be monitored are projects that are developmental. It was also said that infrastructure projects were being discussed, that this budget was not being developed, that it was not being followed. Infrastructure projects such as highways that have clearly raised tourism revenues from 3 billion euros and 900 million euros to 5.5 billion euros are certainly projects that infrastructure has their own justification. Of course, not to increase the cost of employment and maintenance costs afterwards, that the average maintenance and costs of such companies as HAC are three times more expensive and larger than they are, in fact, average when private investors, or private entrepreneurs, are doing them. So this budget is a budget of rationalisation, these changes and additions to the budget of stabilisation, fiscal stabilisation, accountability and what is crucial, once again I will repeat, stability and public finances with the stability of the financial sector that we have no reason not to expect for next year the development envisaged in the gross product and development and employment that is key at this moment and in the future and always for the Republic of Croatia. Of course, on behalf of the HNS Club, we support the changes and additions of the 2012 budget, and we believe that not only will everything that is written be realized but in 2013 will bring that smile and the beginning of the satisfaction of all citizens for which we have received trust, and we have been given confidence to make changes, to make cuts, to be a true policy to look openly into everyone's eyes where we are wrong, where we are doing well to get praises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21906	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got two lines reported. The first is the replica of the respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21907	Thank you very much, President. You said space, you mentioned space for investors, so now I'm asking myself and you. It was planned to build a school in Sisak 5 million kuna, if I remember correctly. As far as I can see from it, it's certainly been a space for domestic business entities to engage actively in that part. However, I see that this has been transferred to the 2013 budget. Whether it was going to be before the fifth month of realization, so we can see it as part of a pre-election campaign and pre-election promises, or this is a set of strange circumstances, so that's what happened. Secondly, you mentioned the restructuring of the public sector, so let me just remind you that until now, at least with us, this restructuring has come down to the fact that the figures of 5000 extra, 5000 workers of extra on Croatian railways, 800 in HEP, and now I don't count how many more there are in these public enterprises, that is, in this public sector. And as far as I can see, the plan for the future is to sell this public sector, because after Great Britain and now what the Spanish are doing, we're going to be the first to get rid of our railroad probably don't know what motive that is. But it's obvious how you said restructuring the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21908	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21909	Dear fellow, it is clear, therefore, that what we are talking about government policy, the coalition policy that we are not thinking at all that local elections are how they have been done so far, but we have really joined the business of a particular government as an executive body to solve all these accumulated problems and to try and revive and help the economy that has the chance of further working and functioning. It's in the sense that something was either not working or delaying. And that's what's fundamental and crucial in this business. The second question was. So, absolutely, therefore, it is ongoing and they will be very soon finished and on the matter of how the minister spoke absolutely where there exist and surpluses there will also be absolutely respected all those terms of collective agreements, i.e. the Labour Law. Therefore, no one on this issue will be harmed except, of course, the situations in which surpluses are especially where the administration will not be able to continue to work. But that part of the job as we've heard the accumulation of unnecessary occupations, I'm not going to say staff, the public sector interest is something that we're willing to take over and we're going to take over, and we're going to go back to the local elections independently because we don't have time for what this country doesn't have time to wait and delay. At first, both in the campaign and in the takeover of power, we said we are clearly taking responsibility. That word means that we do not have pulsism and demagogy, but work with mistakes that are possible but we take responsibility and we will do this job in the best way and I believe that citizens will clearly recognise it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21910	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21911	Here's to short, in spite of the time-share. This has been such an inspiring exposure that a man has to look back on him. The success of achieving the declared goal of keeping the deficit below 10 billion kuna, I don't remember when that goal was declared and what success was achieved by it. But that was your statement. Now I'd like to refer to some more statements along the way. Therefore, reforms in the restructuring of the public sector have started, public responsibility being introduced. This is the stabilisation budget, and next year it will bring smiles to Croatian citizens. Yeah, and finally a message from a colleague not to spread demagogy and populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21912	And a reply to the replica, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21913	My dear colleague, you have drawn part of my not sentences from the context, but from the words. So as for the 10 billion deficits, I must remind you that the 2010 and 2011 deficit was 14 billion. A 4 billion deficit reduction. If you believe that this is not a success and that is not what we have been saying and when we adopt the budget, the goal is to reduce the budget deficit from 4.2% to 3% of gross products. Well, if it's not a success, then I don't know. It should be a little bit of an economical matter for me to be honest with you, no offense. Smile on your face. So smile on your face not only because I believe that we will enter 1.7 and be 28 EU members, but that all this work must have a result in the new job opening and as an indicator that citizens feel the same way about themselves. And I believe that the pensioners who after two years were hitched to their pensions by the Swiss model increased this year had twice they had that smile I believe this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21914	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of clubs reported for discussion on this subject. We are moving on to an individual debate of respected deputies for 10 minutes. The first is a respected representative of Martina Dalic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21915	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm going to be very brief, given that now this is one tiny hour already, almost I've actually decided to use these 10 minutes of my own with two goals. First, I'd like to suggest something to you as President of the Parliament. Since this debate had different dynamics, and it came to an entirely argumentable one and I would say calm dynamics at a certain point around 19.30, I would suggest that when we have a debate on next year's budget that we actually go somewhere around 21.00 and that we all get together here and then we really have an argumentative and calm discussion about the budget. It seems to me that these late hours contribute to the quality of calming the debate and reducing the amount of demagogy. And, Mr. Minister, I'd like to say one sentence to you, you've invited us here to criticise you that the government has failed to reduce the salary mass. It's actually just one whole element of what you're talking about yourself, and that's a matter of fiscal rule. Well, I will always criticise you a little about the issue of compliance with the fiscal rule, but don't be angry then, because as far as EUROSTATA is concerned, it doesn't matter what year it's going to be. It's gonna be in somebody's house. In 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, quite anyway, but what is important is to solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21916	Who can answer your questions first or me? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I thank you, a commendable proposal. We will propose to our colleagues and colleagues constructively, and will reduce the costs of HRT. ... It's an individual approach to every MP. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. The Honorable Representative... You got it, though. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, all right. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21917	So this fiscal rule is a problem. We'll be lucky to have the deficits in the shipbuilding. Thus, by failing to save a billion and 600 million on salaries, the government has a simple calculation that is very, very difficult. There's a bill and there's nothing to avoid the facts of what it is. We'll be lucky to have the deficits in the shipbuilding, nothing else. But we simply see how difficult it is because the demands of many are justified that we have failed to realise projects, that we have difficulties with projects, but the rules we have proposed ourselves. And there's always a question of whether this is the rule we've set ourselves should be at a time of recession and crisis like this. And it will cost us in many ways, and there will be more cuts. And we see that when we have interest approaching 10 billion kuna, which is essentially our deficit, it's just very difficult to cut further expenses. Therefore, the fiscal rule will be a problem for everyone. For the sake of responsibility of the government, but also for all of you MPs because it will simply need budgets, along with budget and fiscal rules. It's going to be very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21918	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next up for debate is the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21919	Thank you, Mr. President. So during the afternoon in a series of replicas, I said in the most part what I had in mind now in an individual debate, but now I will only briefly be one part relating to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction because I think about the work of this ministry, the resources that the ministry has at its disposal, and indeed there will be Mr. Ministers conditional upon the realization of all those investments that you mentioned during the afternoon, which should be the assumption of the realisation of these same investments. This rebalancing of the state budget reduces funds, for example, for the State Geodetic Authority and significantly reduces funds from two bases. The first is that the budget in the positions envisaged for the financing of the State Geodetic Administration reduces funds and this seems to me to be in that part that could allow for a new measurement of a large number of local self-government units in Croatia. On the other hand, the amendment of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings was abolished, under which the compensation for the retention of buildings of illegally built buildings in space was largely intended for use by the State Geodesy Administration in order to access the systematic new geodetic measurement and land cataster. The second thing that seems to me to be not good and could have helped the construction sector in the first place is the previous Law on subsidisation and state guarantees of housing loans. I have already said on several occasions today that in just a few months this measure allowed 2255 young families in Croatia to buy apartments under very favourable conditions and that it would certainly be a large part of those unsold apartments we were talking about had been sold and I suppose a new cycle of building apartments in the Republic would be opened. And I don't see the reason why the government has accepted so warmly many young families in Croatia, why did it give up? And here's the third thing, so I'm going to finish what I want to mention is the next thing. During this summer, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure announced a reduction of state shipping lines towards Croatian islands. The reason for this announcement that had not been reached today was the fact that 43 million kuna is missing from the Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport Agency. And that's why those same lines should have been reduced. In the meantime, not a single line has been reduced yet, although I hear from the ministry that a new government decision is now being announced on the establishment of state lines, but now I don't understand how it has been since summer on here, not that there are 43 million kuna missing, but you've taken down 15 million kuna with this rebalancing. How with 15 million kunas less can all of what 43 million kunas were missing a few months ago? So I ask you to see if you can remove these 15 million kunas from the agency so that you will not be forced into any of the existing lines towards Croatian islands by the end of this year. I don't see what would be the reason to then cut funds to that agency that enables the transport of Croatian islands to be connected. And when we talk about Croatian islands we heard just before from representatives from the HDSSB that talk about a number of projects that have given up in Slavonia and Baranja I have to say that these are very bad past Croatian islands. Compared to last year for infrastructure projects on Croatian islands, 50% of the funds have been reduced according to the budget, and now this rebalance is still decreasing by another 42.6% on the part relating to the EIB, so the European Investment Bank project has been reduced by another 12 million kuna since the planned 30 million kuna. So the Croatian islands through this budget rebalancing are reduced and such reduced resources in the state budget which I do not see what is a particular reason for knowing more that there are a very, very large number of projects with completed documentation with a building permit with everything that is necessary for these projects to be realised on Croatian islands. And with that I will end up, so if it is not necessary and I think that the rebalance of the state budget and the entire state budget could be closed without those 15 million kunas that I plan to download to the Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport Agency, I ask you if you can leave those funds so as not to have to reduce the number of ferry and catamaran lines towards the Croatian islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21920	Thank you, too. We have one replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21921	Dear counterpart Bačić, I agree with one part of your presentation when you spoke about Croatian islands, since I am on one of the Adriatic islands for 20 years. First of all, the bad treatment of all current governments towards islands is insufficiently devoted to islands, bad connections with islands, islands are the most expensive of all Croatian cities. Try to leave a month when the islanders have to live with tourists for two months that summer three months, no work, and the islands will be released. Let's not ignore it because it's a very important issue, and the minister is from the sea so he knows for sure at least how it is on the Kvarner Islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21922	Thank you very much. Representative-respected Branko Vuksic responds to the replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21923	Here I thank Mr Vuksic for supporting this part of the part relating to the Croatian islands and I believe that Mr. Minister will respect this fact. I must say that the 2011 census for the first time since 70 years has shown that more inhabitants live on Croatian islands than in the previous 2001 census for 7,000 inhabitants. The reason is primarily in the very, very large investments that Croatian governments have invested in Croatian islands over the past 10 years. Assumption of this was primarily the Law on Islands and the National Sustainable Development Programme of the Island. For this reason, I also appeal to Mr. Minister that these funds that are not very large I say all together are somewhere around 40 million kunas to be abolished with Croatian islands so that we do not stop this progress on Croatian islands and that this one level of investment in Croatian islands will indeed keep our lives on Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21924	Thank you very much. And it is up to the proposer's representative, Honored Minister Slavko Linic, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21925	Very short. The geodetics to realize the projects wouldn't have diminished. When we were doing rebalancing, it was just over 35 days by the end of the year, the base figure shows how effective they were, that's why we're reducing them. So you just have to ask them why they didn't realize the papers and at the same time we have a problem with cadastar books and land books. So the cut was not realized. Residential loans, I, it's nice, this year you have 38 million kuna liabilities due to last year's... how much longer. How much longer? 20 years, right? No, you're not going to calculate. So we have problems simply whether we have enough or not to have enough funds for such programs. We talk about young people, there were also those who are rich and solid, so we just have to choose what our goal is. This government considers tax requirements to affect price reductions and without budgetary burdens, without burdens. Every programme of this kind is neither social nor social, because we have no criteria for how much money anyone has, how much money anyone has, how old they are, but our goal was to sell apartments, and that's why we have a burden on our budget. It is evident that the island needs help, but we know that it is always a question of whether we give more on the coast or in Slavonia. And let's be honest, when we add to the shipbuilding, it doesn't compare where more is given, not to compare. These are incomparable sizes. But the truth, we cut, we'll hardly be able to accept anything because we spent on wages, and that's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21926	Thank you very much, Minister. We're going with an individual discussion. Did you report a replica? ... No, no, if there's a replica here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, we haven't seen it. Okay, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21927	Thank you, Mr. President. I gave the replica, otherwise I wouldn't have stood up if I hadn't. But I wanted to tell Mr. Minister that when it comes to apartments there's no need and it's too late for the two of us to argue, you probably thought about POS anyway. POS is a project that was created in 2001 that encourages housing in Croatia... we gave up. We went with another project that has received exceptional results, which allows the customer, over 4 years, to be granted a subsidy that is slightly less than VAT, which is when the apartments are about 15% to 16%, to which the state returns over 4 years. For example, on a 100 000-euro loan, the state has allowed the young family 14,000 euros. And the project gave up the Ministry of Construction and returned to POS what you said, returning a new model of POS that was not sufficiently reasoned, and now according to this rebalancing and from this POS that the Government announced, which the Ministry of Construction announced, has given up on this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21928	The Rules of Procedure of Replication are always allowed in the Assembly. Now we're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21929	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to deal with the general view of this budget rebalancing, of everything the club representatives said today. I don't know if it's real, no matter what the minister says, that this budget rebalance should in some way underline the line of everything that's happened this year, it's not saved a billion and more than billions, it needs it... kind of. But I have to wonder if the Ministry of Culture really needs to take down 5.5 million and if it's really going to help this rebalancing. I'm saying that not only because I've been in this sector for a long time but also because of the government's declared policy. If out of 5.5 million 3 million we take to protect the monuments, 2 million on investments in culture and half a million on publishing activities that we know are on our knees, the whole sector, then I don't know where this declared state investment policy is in something. Because if there's anything in culture a state investment, that I'm not talking about creative industries right now and I'm not bothering this auditorium that's still left, then this is a direct investment, direct because these money has to be asked about the competition either for protective works or for construction works in the institutions of culture. So we took 5.5 million state investments. They took it. Is this really necessary for small programme funds that are in the Ministry of Culture because I want to say that in 2011 it is already quite reduced, whether it will really help ministers. I am saying this because the moment Croatia enters European integration next year on the issue of the cultural policy of a republic that has just over 4 million inhabitants with a certain cultural identity is a strategic issue in the decades to come. And whoever doesn't understand it doesn't understand the question of national cultural identity. It may not mean much to some of the other ministries of 5 million kunas, but I assure you that the programme of the Ministry of Culture means a lot. If you take this part of the publishers and look at the interviews, see what they said after Interliber, unfortunately, it is one of the most successful fairs we have today at the Zagreb Fair. The entire sector is on its feet. Do you know the percentage of people in the European Union who work in the cultural sector? Almost 5%. More than 3% of the EU's GDP is a sector of culture and growth. If that's the case, if the government's policy is programmed to go... with state investments, I agree. But it's possible, then, that's exactly what we need to take down in the budget rebalancing. But I'd like to give you a second suggestion, if you need to, if you're saying you need to cut the rights, it's not touched here, Minister. Touched. From the insurance of artists, special rights have not been reformed, no revision has been made, and what I saw in the 2013 budget is that there are no projects prepared for the funds. That's really bad, then. And we can do rebalancing again next year, download again, but it won't bring results either to a better culture or to a budget or to the end of you who are in charge of holding the stability of the budget. We are also going with a temporary measure, we will again likely discuss this on the 2013 Budget with a monumental rent. We had this discussion. The memorial rent must be invested in the works. Maura, it's a legal obligation. I know that it is necessary to release the production activities that have already been done two years ago, that it is necessary to free the crafts and those other activities that cannot pay for it. But we've had situations to get rid of these banks, casinos and things like this. I'm really appealing to you to have a special sensitivity for this sector. These five million will leave the program. At the same time, you have institutions that we haven't touched where it could have been quite saved. Cultural unions have agreed to agree with the government, but this is not seen here in budget rebalancing. The mass of their salaries remains higher than planned in the basic budget. I just can't understand. Until recently, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic, is talking about investments, state investments, and the assistant in charge of this in the Ministry of Culture contracts that should be released in order to hold the tender for 6 months to... And now I wonder who's crazy about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then I see in the end that the execution is not going to talk about 2011. The difference between heaven and earth. And you know what will happen to you, Mr. Minister? You'll be blushing again because of all these criticisms. You'll be blushing because of the loan... It was supposed to be over this year in the fifth month and it would be over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mayor of Vukovar can testify to that. You'll be blushing because of the IPA program for... without saying how hard it will be for you to see that new projects will not be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I'm more afraid of. Instead of investing these five million in project preparation if we don't have finished projects and then insist on the results. Consider this discussion of my colleagues and colleagues as a wish to come really into this stage that the culture sector in Croatia also contributes to both employment and GDP as it is to the countries of the European Union. I can't understand that other colleagues from tourism, from spatial planning, from construction, from the Ministry of crafts and small entrepreneurship. You have here an item entrepreneurship culture 2 million cemented since 2010. Instead of raising funds because these are the funds you give to craftsmen, entrepreneurs in culture to stimulate self-employment and projects. It's standing frozen. And in 2013 will probably be... And actually again a large part of the culture budget will go into something that you won't have from your point of view, from your position of view you won't have an effect and you will constantly spin around in a vicious circle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know it's not up to the end of your responsibility, but if we all want the economy to go better, then we have to think that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21930	Thank you very much. We have a signed replica of the respected representative Igor Radinovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21931	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr. Mesic knows that I had to do it for nothing else, so at least because of yesterday's hairstyle. You can't hear me again? You really don't hear well, I have to yell. Everybody can hear me. Come somewhere closer. President, we have to give Mr. Mesic somewhere closer to the chair, because he's the only one who doesn't hear me well. I told you at least because of yesterday's hairstyle to give you a line. You said that many in their previous replicas, many in the HDSSB if I'm not mistaken or laborists mostly in this upper part will cry one day after the HDZ. Well, listening to your calm, sweet words, I'm not going to say that I'm crying, but I'm just sad that you haven't been a minister for a long time, a little while, the Minister of Culture, and I'm really pulling these wonderful, actually necessary moves in culture. You yourself said that a lot of things had to be done, that many institutions weren't touched, so I'm really sorry that the money in culture didn't reroute the way you would have wanted it when you were a minister. But don't really respect the Ministers of Finance now and his time, and everything he unfortunately has to do in the Republic of Croatia that in these 5 million hours, it's important but take advantage of that debate on the Committee on Culture and Rebalancing, actually on the budgets next year. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is here. He's got five million kunas, and you get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21932	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21933	How much time is there? First, there were colleagues because the Ministry of Culture in Slavonia and Baranja reciprocally invested more in terms of and restoration of heritage and investment than in any other part of Croatia, because unfortunately there we had the greatest war damage. Our damage to the cultural heritage is over 300 million euros, so listen to me. That's what the Ministry of Culture was doing. You know well that I stood up for culture until I was a minister, and I didn't need to stand up for it before because we had a very good culture minister, Mr. Bishop, who knew it well. And you know yourself while you were Principal of the Welsh that I struggled very hard to keep the free ticket for the citizens of Interliber so that people could spend that money to buy a Croatian book, buy it, and so on. The cultural industry survives. And now I see in the rebalancing that you're taking it off 500,000, instead of calling on all the talambas of people to come buy books, to further stimulate them to survive and prepare for what's coming, because now 5% of the VAT comes to them. That's right, Minister, on the book. Instead of helping them, you're still wondering why I'm appealing to the minister. Well, because I hope he can help. Well, I'm not complaining about what I'd want bad for that sector, but because I want good. I understand that some of our colleagues may say why I insist so much on this sector, but I find it extremely important. And I don't think that the $5 million that's going to be in this sector is going to help a lot of ministers close their budgets for this year. And this activity will allow it to survive. It'll be impossible to pick up again, impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21934	Thank you very much. It's been minutes to respond to the replica. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić and her 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21935	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to be long, I think I'm the last speaker today, so I'm going to end up in the school spirit because I'm kind of following that education portfolio. I'm sorry that Minister Linic came out, but he probably needed to get out. He reminds me here today of a classmate who has 20 in front of him insubordination students. At least from what he's exhibited to us today because he told us at the very beginning that the task of this budget for this year was to nominally cut expenditures. And admitted it didn't work out. Now we come to the question of paying salaries to education and health care or abolishing programs and projects? I am sorry that we, colleagues and colleagues all the time, and I have been a little reminded of my debate in the adoption of this year's budget that some 300 million kunas for salaries will be missing in the education portfolio. We even subcalculated what they'd say. There are 406 million kuna missing for primary and secondary schools and 105 million in higher education. There's still a fight between teachers and law professors on collective bargaining. Companions and fellow teachers have always been tough nuts and will not give in so easily. They won't give in because they've always been paid. That's what we all agreed to. You just need to shed a little debate from past budgets and past years, it's short notice. I am sorry that there are no resolution ministers because this burden is borne by the finance minister and he really cannot have the answers why Minister Jovanovic said in May that "I will resign if the salaries in education will fall!" And they fell, colleagues and colleagues, to some teachers and teachers for 1,000 kuna. The ministry simply transferred it and blamed the accountants as if they were paying those salaries. They get you done calculated wages, take away only liabilities and loans. So they didn't make a mistake. They got less money. And here's why I asked on the Education Committee how it came to be that all the items in the budget are completely naked, I mean for education? And I got an answer from the Ministry of Education because I asked him for that answer, so I would like the resolution ministers to sit here today because this applies to them and to the Ministry of Culture of counterpart Mesic and to all the other ministries. You know what kind of answer I got? Well, yes, admit it, we were linearly removing those items because we were missing 436 million and imagine when you look at the numbers like this then you see that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports got 436 million more. But they're under-planned, they're on our warning that it'll be insufficient on the pay items and obligations to the employees a year ago, not a year ago in February that it'll be enough. We discussed it a month ago if you remember the budget for the first six months, and we have warned the same thing, and now we really need to answer the question of whether it's pay or programmes. Well, so, colleague Novak, you've seen for real that there's no more money for a crafts school in Sisak, but if there were any further prosthetics, you'd see that there's no more for Dr. Sik's hospital either. Ivo Pedesic. I don't know, our mayor promised the citizens 400 million kuna from the budget a few months ago. I haven't found those 400 million unfortunately in this state budget, but she always finds them around here. It doesn't matter, chiefly, that he's making an irresponsible promise to the citizens. I wonder what he'll say after all the items for capital projects in Sisak-Moslavina County have been taken down except for all the honors for the water industry, but we've heard from what funds it's funded by the water economy. My colleagues and colleagues for everything we've been up to in education, for extracurricular activities programmes, for what we've been discussing all morning today, for the introduction of new programmes and new commitments to the state budget, we've now got 0. This is why we're against this rebalancing and I said that on the Education Committee. Not because we wouldn't want to pay the teachers' wages, but because we warned them at first that they weren't doing well in education, that they weren't planning well. But no one listened to us, and now we are where we are. 436 million kunas not only by redistributing to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but by removing colleagues and colleagues from some projects and some programmes in other ministries. And here's why, I'm going to end it really late, so at least for this education sector, we're not going to support the budget in that way. And when I only went through a little budget for 2013 I have to tell you, it's too late, I got my head. I'm afraid of what's going to happen to education, what's going to happen to education, and that big story from plan 21 I keep reading it what we promised and what we stood for, there's nothing. Pure zero. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21936	Nothing, nothing. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Novak and Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21937	Thank you very much, President. You mentioned here the projects of the mammal, so another detail that you probably don't know. Somewhere in May was the SDP report convention of Sisak-Moslavina County, which I also came to, although it is not our custom to go to such organisations of others, but I knew there would be six ministers present. I took this opportunity and I welcomed them to Sisak City with a glorious past, a dreary present, and let them make sure they don't have a black future. And all six ministers I apologize to 5 Minister Ostojić's health came a little later, all five ministers felt called for to answer that and all five I had the feeling that they were bigger mammals than me that they weren't but they were so many people in love with this Sisak that it wasn't to believe, and that all together resulted in exactly what you said earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21938	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21939	Thank you, Mr. President. One sentence. My colleague Novak, but they obviously didn't know they wouldn't have enough to pay. Well, unfortunately, you won't get a single project.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21940	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21941	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's no Mr. Minister, I'm a board member, so I'd just like to take a moment to respond. You were talking about a pay cut, it's not true that it was a bad plan. And you know for yourself that the past failed talks with the unions, the basic pay was not meant to be reduced, but the pay additions, especially in that part that's unfounded and you can't claim that you're a bad plan and that you're fooling the public because it's simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21942	When we need you, we'll call you esteemed. Please, nice. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21943	Thank you, colleague. Well, that's exactly what was wrong with the plan. Look, you can't plan to have some collective bargain rights without finishing collective bargaining. It's irresponsible, it's really irresponsible. And I'm sorry here now come back Minister Linic, I'll repeat myself I'm really sorry because he's in the biggest trouble right now but because of his colleagues who didn't plan well who didn't know or were insubordinate, what I told you. My colleague, you can't say that the enlighteners won't get a regress and a Christmas certificate if we haven't negotiated it. What does that mean? If we had thought in advance that we would reach an agreement, that we would force people. You think it takes two colleagues to make a deal. All the time I've been following the course of these collective bargain negotiations, firstly you didn't come, unfortunately, when the HDZ government proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act in this area of collective bargaining and contract, but everyone was running to sign a petition against it. Now, neither Minister Linic nor Minister Jovanovic would have any problems, they now have them in collective bargaining. Normally, two of them need to be at the table, not Minister Mrsic on behalf of the government who negotiates, you'll forgive him says hit the table with your hand, and he says we're not giving up, we're not giving anything, you won't get anything. Well, what do you expect from the people of your colleague, so I'm a teacher, and I hope you're in that vault, too. So what do you expect from people who have barely started these salaries slightly since 2004? So what do you expect them to say to you, here's to my 5,000 highly educated people in high school, here's to my five thousand kuna I give, so these are the least paid highly educated people in the public sector. He's not even in health care anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21944	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. Yes, you can. You can always. Here is a representative of the proposing respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic. We'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21945	The government of the Republic of Croatia when it proposed a budget and said 2 billion less on the payroll, she said loud and clear. The basic problem is the pay additions. Paid extras. And it's true the ministers didn't make an effort to open negotiations not collective but borderline. And it is true that the Ministry of Finance is now preparing a one-stop shop policy that only education has 146 different accessories for working conditions that we don't count neither the regression nor the Christmas card in. Conditions of work, you know, working conditions that are defined. In what way? That in some special school from porters to professors everyone has accessories because they work at a special school and up to 10% pay. Well then we have a calculation of the supplement to supplement, that it was all supposed to start negotiations and see where we are. We didn't do that. And it's our responsibility and we're not running away from it. True, next year just don't tell me about the Labour Act. Here I accept, the Labour Act has not been supported, but who is to blame for ensuring last year's new additions to health care, from the 1st year of new billion kunas, billions and 100 million on new additions. Who signed it? Well, that's not what the Labour Act asked for. It wasn't the negotiations we had at the time of the former government. Add-on, add-on, 140 schemes. I wouldn't want to read if you didn't see which one. In health care there's a slightly smaller addition, I'm sorry, I was wrong to say, 40 and some in education, and 140 in health care. There's 140 of them in health care. That's where your extras are more than 50% of your salary, more. Why, there's no college for nurses, so the head nurse doesn't have a college so to make up for the problem then come up with a 50% supplement. 50%. And I don't want to pick up the rest of the stuff. Yeah, that was supposed to work out this year. And now we're trying to make up for time, we're trying to bring order in, and we're going to bring it in next year. True, now it comes to that basic absurd that just someone... was for coefficients because the coefficients aren't wages, the additions are wages, now we have the absurd that the greater amount of supplements than the coefficients you can't just abolish. You can't. Why, well, then people will really have a small salary but that's why we have a fully unreal relationship between high school professors and universities and colleges, a dean who has a higher salary than a minister, etc., don't list everything else. It's all the result of relationships like this. And vice versa, possibly a high school teacher or elementary school teacher with far less income, just because every minister did what he wanted. ...that it's a system not from this government ex, it's a system of 20 years of building where coefficients, additions, and then we had every minister who was a benefactor to his people and so he dragged her. You know, we watch what happens, we have a problem with data input. You know why we have a problem with the input, listen the computer is cursed, it doesn't accept your exceptions. If it's a high-tech facility you can't plant a man who happens to have an SS, and what has an SS we've had supplements but now the damn computer won't accept it, a man won't get paid, etc. So we're seriously dealing with this problem, we're really trying really seriously to simplify, even pay, and we know what the relationship is between teachers, teachers, doctors, firefighters, etc. But we can only do that when we remove the supplements and it'll be a bloody business in 2013. Let's go back to the process to figure out what the coefficients are, why, because some supplement still needs to be installed into the coefficient. Yeah, that's what we've been fighting for all year, someone's been a little. I must especially point out Minister Kotromanović, who was in the army, who cut the accessories, there was an addition to whether you were on board, whether the ship is sailing, whether the ship is tied or accidentally still on the coast. He had a special feature for everything, not to mention how much it was for the commander, the officer and the regular sailor. Let me just point that out. Yeah, he cut it. The other ministers say, he's easy, no unions. So, as we see a lot of irregularities in the wage system that we've been building for 20 years, and now we need to change that. If we were a little more efficient, we probably could have done a lot of things, or we could have started what you said since 2004, and you know why since 2004, because the world and our system becomes 0.5%, and it knows 0.5% on the internship. That's what every one of us has, you've got 30 years of internships, so you've got 15% salary allowance. But in 2004 someone remembered let's invent an extra supplement but only for education because they're something lower, so we went... Changed in 2004, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's go see when it's applied and then what we've found, then it's an imaginary addition to fidelity 4.6.8.10, depending on whether you're 5.10.20 years old and now we've still got these supplements so whoever's 30 years old has an extra 10%, etc. So all you know is these supplements that the days of education then all the unions jumped, then they built it all on 900 million kunas. To further count, yes, we have huge problems, the payment system is completely wrong, we do not actually have the ability to compare wages across all segments of the public sector and state services for the reason that the supplements have violated the entire system. And then the peak of all the odds that now that you take everything that's being built on the salary are about 50.60% of the salary, it determines the government on its own, but the additions are all in collective contracts. And that's something that's a problem and it's going to need to be solved and we're going to solve it. By the end of this year you know well, civil service unions signed collective agreements that regulate 0.5%, Christmas, awards, regress, and now we negotiate with public services. There's little time. Because if we don't finish negotiations for the next 15 days, the collective contract is no longer worth it. And then the government decides what to do. That's it. There remains a problem with our negotiations on border agreements where these also apply to specific working conditions. Therefore, the government decided this year to conduct negotiations, so we failed, we failed. In these negotiations, as you can see, they don't understand each other. The messages sent that this government is harassing them because we are negotiating, as if I enjoy sitting with Ribic for three, four hours. It's not my pleasure at all. But I'm sitting down. It's a heavy burden to him. I'm sitting, I take it as a commitment, as a member of the government. He thinks it's bullying, but there wasn't a single penny less this year than last year. The ministers also made a mistake. We've been doing coefficients, so we've managed to coordinate something. Through the coefficients we tried, for example, at the Ministry of Finance to coordinate tax and customs that there are no too many differences, etc. So we took these up a little bit what they're called coefficients. Well, then that's where the pay went. Yeah, yeah. It's all what happened this year. But what does that mean? That means we've been negotiating, and when you listen to messages that concern the government boast, irresponsible, and everything else. No, it's not. We just want to say what the government's goal is, and for next year, since the negotiations are slowly approaching the end, if there is no objection, there will be a government decision. We know what we're gonna do. And our message is clear no Christmas card, no regress, no miscalculation of loyalty fees and a completely different bill of transportation. What I can tell you is the transport will be 50% smaller. And you know why? Because of the huge abuses in the system. Everyone lived outside of Zagreb. All I apologize for the length. [[Intruder Leko: Bring the Honored Ministers to the End.]] So that's what we're going to try to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21946	Thank you very much. We didn't have any extras for imagination. But now the replicas have the rights of Ivanka Roksandić, Ivan Šuker and Branko Vuksic. Let's get this straight. First is the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21947	Thank you, Mr. President. The minister has not corrected 146 supplements after all. I've already grabbed my head. I've been in the education system for a long time, so I think what are the supplements at once. I'm not sure I'm 40, but you know why? Because in the education system we can't raise the teacher's salary, and then we said that he has an extra because he has one or two children who goes through a special program and is in class with 30 students, which is very difficult for colleagues and colleagues to work with. So then we said he'd get an extra because he works shifts or works at three schools in the same day to fill the clock. But we can't get to the Minister of Education to level with the others in public service. That's why they've had all these years. And I'd love to, I'd really like you to manage to raise your salary so much that it really gets back to educators. I agree with you that there was also a part where there was a place where money manages to go to education, but this year, Minister Linic must admit that the Ministry of Education did not plan well, did not plan well. 436 million kunas are missing. They have to get half a billion more. We can't ignore that, colleagues and colleagues. And you weren't at the beginning. I said I felt sorry for you personally. You're like a classmate of a class who hasn't been obeyed, who's disobeyed and now, today you're responsible for all those who haven't done anything this year. I'm talking about the Ministers of Resort.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21948	Thank you very much. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21949	Probably no one would mind that teacher or professor getting a special allowance because he has students in his class with special ones. But the problem is that there's a sub, I don't know what it's called today, a boiler boy, a cleaning lady. They all do. Everyone. I'll show you the supplement and we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21950	Thank you very much. Second replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21951	Oh, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I had to take this call because these supplements were spoken here when the budget rebalance was in the fourth month of 2009, and then I would like to take out what my colleagues on this side were talking about. That's when my colleague Fuchs went out and that's when the team got talked about. And fellow Linic, you at the Ministry of Finance will find a single salary billing project. That project is 4 or 5 years old. You also know why the medics agreed to give up on that. You just signed to not touch the border collective agreements. However, the cardinal error was when two thousand abolished the salary bill according to the pay grade. And the only correct way to account for salaries in state and public services is to pay classes with the possibility of rewarding someone to skip from the pay grade to the pay grade practically for one year if they work well and that's only fair because in the state and public administration they finally have to pay for workers, not to pay for chairs. And when we start thinking like that, then no one's going to have any more arguments about saying that someone's politically attacking someone like that. But what I was saying on behalf of the club. Sometimes in crisis situations, political belongings need to be constrained, which is good for the state. Unfortunately, in 2010, we didn't have that power, we didn't have that kind of thinking. But it's a good school for the future when it comes to strategic things that just can't happen. Because look, what was not done then is now simply breaking the government's head and without it can't solve the problem. So we can talk whatever we want. Salaries and pensions are 67, 68 billion state budgets. And you can touch whatever you want. If you don't touch that part, you can't get into the budget. So there are problems that last a long time, but what we're doing in FINA is not going to be good again if we don't get into the pay grade system. Because both the Ministry of Health and Schools have accessories, those famous shoes are probably already in Croatia, and these are the additions to primary and secondary school for those who do not have the right to transport and then tear down the yearly two shoes, then get that famous shoe.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21952	Thank you very much. And the third replica, the respected representative of Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21953	I'm handing it over to you, dear ministers, because you're, I don't know if you're personal, but the SDP, it supports the unions when the signatures came together. You told the truth we gave support almost subduedly you said that. Don't apologize for doing a good job, the SDP did well and those who did. Now you're wrong or you're going to make a mistake at that moment when you're going to allow the change of the Labour Act in a way that to God flexibles the labour market. And what does that mean? It just means that workers will get easier fired as if they were now having a hard time getting fired as if we now have 15 thousand unemployed so no one could quit. When polls were made and foreign investors were asked what was their biggest obstacle to the decision to invest in Croatia, workers' salaries were at the bottom. In the first place were inefficient states, permits, frequent changes in tax policy, 7 or 8 of the 10th were salaries of workers. It's the biggest lie the neoliberal capitalists plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21954	Replica response, respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21955	They don't need major changes in the Labour Act, the problem of the government is collective bargaining because yet we have 240 employees not to talk about anything else, and these are border contracts in companies where we own, where uncontrollable payments are, for example, enough to say that the union has managed to push through the FINA duty and even the waiter sits at home over the weekend and gets paid because eventually if a computer operator has to decide to go to fix something then and the waiter needs to serve it. Yeah, that's where we got the system done. Therefore, if you get to work in border contracts, you'll find horrors and horrors. It is also normal for the railway to fall apart, that the subsidies that were in our budgets that each citizen pays were used for their salaries, but these salaries are strictly high. Those salaries are with a lot of supplements, yeah, yeah. Why? Because you know there were the strongest negotiators who were supposed to get high wages, but since there were 11 unions then and those who didn't have complex jobs like the engineers achieved very high-quality union contracts. Yeah, that's right. And then you have that supply workers or I don't know those who wash cars very close and far above, say, teachers and teachers. Yeah, these are problems that the government hasn't solved, which we need to solve, and we just need to get serious about. And listen when we talk about entrepreneurs, they always tell the Labour Act, but first of all they think about judicial decisions that always protect the unemployed and bring them back to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21956	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on with the debate, the individual debate. Now it is up to the honourable representative Josip Boric. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this item on the agenda. Branko Hrg is a respected representative. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The Honorable Representative, Đuro Popiè. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this agenda point. Boluncic Valter is a respected representative. He's also gone. He's losing his right to argue on this point. Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to discuss this point. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue on this wheel. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21957	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, first of all, I would like to thank you for the actual debate and for the opportunity to discuss this openly about the 2012 budget of a single document. Try to understand that all the amounts that were reduced were reduced not because someone was saving but what was not done I would say consumption, did not realize the project. And the budget and changes and additions to this budget have been made in the last 20 days. Therefore, the items that have been reduced have been reduced because there is no way to spend them by the end of the year. There may always be criticism on some of us because we were inefficient enough, but the end of the month is, serious jobs are done just 20 days next month. Therefore, in proposing your amendment, always try to assess whether it is realistic to spend it in 20 days. And that's the answer that, expecting your amendments, we're just suggesting that we try realistically not to place items, not to increase deficits, not to try to do something else because it's only realistic 20 days for the realization of your proposals. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-22-0.u21958	Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over and all relevant acts. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, respected Prime Minister of the Republic, Vice-President and Vice-President of the Government, ministers and members, I suggest we continue our work at the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I want us to continue our successful work. First of all, we would move to the vote and this amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012, proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-profit users for 2012: (a) Croatian Waters (a) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund (a) Croatian Roads (a) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (a) State Property Management Agency, Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the State Budget and financial plans of extra budget users for 2012-consolidated. The debate is closed with these acts. I vote on the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and projection for 2013 and 2014. A majority of the votes of all MPs in accordance with Articles 76 and 91 shall be required to adopt amendments and to supplement the budget. The Constitution of the By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the majority of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 20 against and 5 abstentions of the amendments and additions of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and the projection for 2013 and 2014 in the text proposed by the Proposer. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries. First, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projection. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 79 for, 20 against and 6 abstentions made a decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projection in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Two, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the amendments and additions of the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that the majority of the votes voted in favour of amending and supplementing the Fund's 2012 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and the 2013 and 2014 projections in the text proposed by the applicant. 3. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? And who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that most of the votes, 80 for, 24 against and 8 abstentions made the decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014 in the text proposed by the Proposer. 4, I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the State Agency's Financial Plan for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that most of the votes, 80 for and 34 abstentions were made by the decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the State Agency's Financial Plan for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections in the text proposed by the Proposer. 5, I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Agency for the Management of State Property for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that most of the votes, 80 for, 8 against and 24 have been abstentions made by the decision on granting consent to the amendments and addition of the Financial Plan of the State Property Management Agency for 2012 and the 2013 and 2014 projections in the text proposed by the Proposer. In line with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Assembly is hereby authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text Amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and to amend and supplement the financial plans before their publication in the National Journal." I'd like to make a statement as to who's behind this conclusion. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 for and 34 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
