ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5377	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Before you there is the Annual Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2010 which according to the Law on the Protection of Competition is required to deliver to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. Since we are already in 2012 and the Agency is preparing the 2011 Report, which will be delivered as soon as possible to this High House for adoption, I will try to present and display this Report as soon as possible and point out the most important aspects of the Agency's work in 2010. First of all, this Report includes activities of the Agency in the field of protection of competition relating to the control of the behaviour of entrepreneurs on the market and its activities in the control of the allocation of state aid. The report also covers the activities of the Agency relating to negotiations with the European Union in particular in Chapter 8. There is also data in collaboration with sectoral regulators, international activities and the like. In the opening part of the report, basic data were provided on our Agency whose legal status was governed by the Competition Protection Act. As you know for your work this agency is responding to the Croatian Assembly, its head is the Council of five members who are now appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The professional service shall carry out administrative, professional and administrative tasks for the needs of the Council. At the end of 2010, 45 employees were employed by the Agency, of which 5 members of the Council, of which 32 employees were directly engaged in business activities related to the implementation of the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. Our 2010 budget amounted to €16.7 million, of which €12.8 million was intended for the Agency's regular activities and nearly €4 million were the EU funds of the IPA 2007 and IPA 2008 programme, where the Agency is extremely active, we have drawn around €7 million from the European Funds or over 50 million for our activity from 2003 to 2010, which means that Europe is financing the Agency almost as much as Croatia. There are a number of jobs carried out at the Agency in 2010 that are not easy to describe and even less to show. Therefore, in the annual report, through the summary of the specific items we have dealt with, the opinions on the laws and other regulations that we have given, the basic analyses obtained by researching the individual markets that we have presented, or the comparisons of data on our Agency with similar institutions in the euro and the wider we have sought to give as accurate and more faithful a picture of our work and our daily affairs. But as you know, the protection of competition is often even to the professional public and especially to citizens and entrepreneurs insufficiently clear syntagma. Most often, it is linked to the need to address all negative phenomena on the market and on the market. Therefore, there are sometimes misunderstandings in everyday life and often dissatisfaction with our work because the agency cannot solve and does not solve all the problems on the market, because there are problems related to public procurement, unfair competition, price control, dumped imports and the like, but is not the legal jurisdiction of the agency. Therefore, the agency's work is governed by the Competition Act when it comes to the market and concerns the establishment of prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs, the determination of abuse of the ruling position and the assessment of the authorisation of concentrations among entrepreneurs, and, in particular, the giving of opinions on laws and other regulations. In all these cases, our interventions aim to establish effective competition among entrepreneurs, no matter where the relevant market operates. This encourages competition among them, and in order to be more competitive and prepared to meet the challenges of the global market. In fact, experience and practice of the world's most developed and advanced states say that without a developed market and competitive battles among entrepreneurs there is neither economic growth nor an increase in employment. That's why competition has no alternative. On the other hand, our aim is to prevent our interventions from agreeing on prices between competitors and those that impose or determine such conditions of sale which result in higher prices or a reduction in the supply of products and services on the Croatian market, which directly harms consumers and reduces the income of citizens. In 2010, I therefore point out as an example of a decision establishing the existence of a prohibited price agreement on daily and weekly press, and also when it comes to prices in the process against one of the largest IT dealers and consumer electronics, we have also made a decision prohibiting him from restricting the freedom of customers of his goods for further sale to determine the prices of these products on his own. Furthermore, in 2010, the Agency conducted several proceedings against importers, personal vehicle distributors and we are sure that after the Agency's order amended distribution and service contracts with authorised distributors and repairers, citizens, owners and customers will benefit most from these interventions from the Agency. As far as the concentration of entrepreneurs in 2010 is concerned, unfortunately, the activities of Croatian businessmen in this area have been reduced and only 12 concentrations are allowed. However, in addition to the procedure for approval of new concentrations, the agency also dealt with a number of other activities where it is certainly necessary to isolate those relating to the final selection of the buyer for Crobenz whose sales, with other measures, were ordered by the Agency in the MOL-INA concentration assessment process. The Agency's intensive activities in terms of strengthening its awareness of the negative consequences of breach of competition protection rules have finally resulted in a significant increase in the number of penalties imposed by infringement courts and, on the grounds of the Agency's proposals. In particular, a fine of around 3 million kuna was imposed in 2010 as opposed to 2009 when only one million kunas of fines were imposed. In 2010, the Agency adopted 19 judgments of the Administrative Court which confirmed the decisions of the Agency or its conclusions and a ruling of the Constitutional Court confirming the judgment of the Administrative Court which rejected the action against the decision of the Agency. The work of the Agency and its role in the implementation of competition protection rights and the creation of such an environment which, regardless of their strength and size, will ensure equal operating conditions on the market, protect consumers and contribute to economic growth, cannot be taken into account only the procedures or cases which determine violations of the law or impose penalties. Here we are talking about the role of the agency in giving an opinion on the rules for whose adoption is in charge of this High House, Croatian Government or units of local and regional self-government and which also have an impact on competition or on the conditions under which competition takes place in some markets or in some activities. Although in 2010, the agency gave a number of opinions, laws and other regulations to this occasion, I consider it important to separate the opinions and activities of the agency relating to the demonopolisation of the car-tax transport market, especially in Zagreb but also in other Croatian cities. What is particularly important to stress is that changes in this sector are double. One goes for the development of the activity itself, and the other goes even more importantly for the benefit of the users of these services. However, changes in this market would not have been possible if there had been no cooperation between this agency and, for example, the City of Zagreb Assembly or the competent authorities of some other cities. In fact, although the agency has since 2004 indicated by its opinions and analyses the necessity of changes in this market could eventually have occurred and came thanks to the determination and regulations of the local self-government units. In 2010, the emphasis was also on the addition of the Competition Act through the creation and proposal of the necessary sublegal acts necessary for its application, in particular when it comes to the detection of prohibited agreements between competitors of the cartel. Finally, there were all other jobs that could not be mentioned here nor in the report, and their resolution as soon as possible and as effective as possible, without prejudice to the rights of each party in the defence proceedings and fair to the agency was our priority. In the implementation of the State aid Act, the agencies focused part of their activities on the approval of the programme with a view to easing the impact of the economic crisis in 2010. For example, when adopting the Law on the Guarantee Fund for Economic Recovery and Development or a regulation implementing that law, the HBOR programme of crediting crafts or operational programme of the Ministry of Economy to retain the competitiveness of the textile industry, the leather industry and skin products. A series of other programmes that we have assessed and approved in 2010 or achieved to adopt programmes that do not contain state aid, such as in the case of economic cooperation funds where the holder of this regulation, acting according to the Agency's instructions, has excluded the possibility of granting support both in the establishment and in the operations of these funds. We have produced the 2009 Annual State Aid Report adopted by this House on 11 February 2011. What I would like to point out is that in 2010, we successfully completed the procedure for assessing the support granted to Rockwool Adriatic, which was not previously declared to the Agency as required by the law, so we launched the procedure according to our official duty and that it is therefore necessary to determine how much support the Republic of Croatia and local self-government helped build this factory in Istria and whether these support were legally founded. Respected representatives and MPs, in 2010 the Agency's activities also focused on obtaining the conditions for the conclusion of the negotiations with the EU, Chapter 8 - Market competition, in particular when it comes to the conclusion of legislation that still needs to be brought into line with the EU acquis, and particularly on meeting the EU's closing criteria. First of all, it is the criteria for closing the shipbuilding negotiations. In doing so, it should not be forgotten that the Agency itself, or its work, has been controlled and closely monitored by the European Commission until full membership, since the first criterion for the temporary closure of negotiations among other things has been quoted as saying: "satisfactory implementation of competition rules". The fact that we are on a good track and we stand side by side with similar agencies in the EU also proves that this criterion is fulfilled and the negotiations are concluded. Since last year, the Agency has been involved in the work of the European Network of Competition Protection Authorities made up of the European Commission and all national authorities of the Member States. Our decisions are being commented and analysed in European journals, and we at the agency are aware of the challenges that Croatia's economy is facing for EU membership in this economy are trying to provide as much information as possible on this area and be as open to cooperation and membership preparations as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5378	Thank you very much. Does the Government's representative or representative want to further explain the government's opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Club of HNS Representatives, I suppose, it doesn't say here, Madam Representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5379	Dear President, honourable representatives of the Competition Protection Agency, respected colleagues and colleagues. Of course, as with all the reports we discussed, it is necessary to note that it is quite unfair now in early 2012, to discuss the work of the agency in 2010, but I will also look back at the current problem of the Agency's work, because this report is actually an opportunity to raise some important issues related to the work of AZTN itself. In fact, regardless of what the 2010 report is about, it is important to talk about the work of this agency because it is certainly one of the most important agencies that Croatia has in recent times, primarily because of negotiations with the EU, and today mainly because of the overall process of fixing market opportunities in terms of the final arrangement of the system by which Croatia would become a society of free competition. The 2010 Report of the Competition Protection Agency was relatively correctly developed, includes a quality list and a description of the activities carried out by the Agency, even with some objections about the correctness of the data, but this has already been demonstrated by the competent ministry, so I would not, except with one observation, that the Agency had absolutely sufficient resources to prepare all the data correctly and accurately and that there is no need for such corrections. Unlike the previous years in 2010, the agency nevertheless started to operate in a more orderly system. In October 2010, the Competition Protection Act was adopted as a basic regulation governing the rules and system of measures to protect competition when it comes to preventing and concluding prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs, preventing abuse of the ruling positions of entrepreneurs or controlling permitted concentrations. That law certainly strengthened the role of the Agency in the market and created conditions for strengthening competition discipline. The Agency is also given considerable powers to impose exactly criminal measures, i.e. a much more effective tool was given to the Agency than it had under the 2003 Competition Protection Act. The government also provided regulations with the conditions for legal certainty and transparency of the Agency's work, so the regulations that were mostly adopted on the Agency's own proposal. The report also extends and emphasises an extraordinary co-operation with EU bodies, which is very nice and commendable and we see that the Agency has given itself a lot of effort in this part. The report also states that the Agency has established extraordinary co-operation with state institutions, independent regulators, judicial authorities, which we also welcome, but we believe that there is room for progress in order to say it has in establishing better communication with the economies, and in this connection with the restoring ministries. Since I come from the economy myself and as the Mayor of the City of Varazdin, I have had the opportunity to talk to a number of businessmen who have had a number of objections to the work of the agency. In fact, I received information from different sectors of the economy that the Agency is not actually trying very hard to be constructive aid and support to the economy. Of course, it is absolutely clear what the role and tasks of the Agency are, but I will have to agree with the opinion of the economy, that the Agency should still play at least an advisory role in helping the fallen Croatian economy in a way that helps them overcome the difficulties and obstacles encountered in the process of proposing and taking measures to save companies, which is decided by the Agency. It is the main regret of the economics, but also of certain authorities of the state administration that the Agency is quite hard and rigorously visible about their demands and proposals, that it is mainly about reluctances without any intention of helping them solve the problem and finding a solution. Perhaps on one particular example, I can explain what this is all about. In fact, a company in the economy that was hit extremely by this crisis, a company whose turnover in 2009 primarily caused the crisis to fall by more than 30%, had to prove to the agency that this economic and financial crisis had affected their business. The company, by the way, is also 40% of the exporters. Who today could really come to mind that a company that is fighting for survival and a company that is fighting for the survival of several thousand workers are asking to prove that the company is doing worse because of the crisis. In its response, however, the agency argues that the impact of the global crisis cannot be considered a valid exceptional reason. I'm going to do a little quoting now the agency's response to the company's restructuring proposal. Thus, the answer was this: the loss of certain foreign customers and markets as well as those abroad poses a normal business risk that every entrepreneur takes in a business venture. Interrupt cooperation with certain suppliers and customers is often a phenomenon in entrepreneurship, and it is up to the entrepreneur and his management to replace certain losses to new customers and to enter new markets. I mean no offense, but this was really written by someone who slept over the fact that both Croatia and the rest of the world are in crisis. And just so there's no confusion over these answers, I have to say, I'm afraid the agencies are only disgusted by the businessmen. This is exactly what the Ministry of Finance was showing. I'll also quote their answer. Therefore, the Competition Protection Agency did not adequately address this problem from a basic theoretical but practical point of view. One of the shortcomings that led to a wrong conclusion for us is that the global crisis had no impact on the deterioration of the business of the company. And now the Ministry of Finance explains to the Competition Protection Agency that there is a crisis in Croatia and the world that affects the business of the company. I wouldn't be longer in this example now, but it's only one example of the rigidity of AZTN's behaviour which has a significant impact not only on business but also on the survival of companies in Croatia and... It's really about serious things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To clarify, therefore, anti-trust measures, preventing the abuse of the ruling position on the market are part of the agency's business that we absolutely support and we want it to be even better and even more quality. But there is one truly whole series of businessmen who in this extremely difficult and crisis times are fighting literally for the survival of their companies and employees in them. And, of course, that the AZTN responds to their proposals to help and restructure companies or sectors in terms of this cannot, and this can't do the same, and this can't possibly be satisfactory and they don't use the Croatian economy. The Agency should, given that it is active in participating at the source of information with the authorities of the state administration, therefore with the Ministry of Economy, with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, with the Ministry of Agriculture, to actively participate in helping to develop the programmes themselves, and not only to be a passive observer who in a very bureaucratic way rejects proposals. Also, according to the information I received from the economy, the process of verification of individual programmes with the agency takes a very long, sometimes almost a year, here is a year and a half, which given the moment we are absolutely unacceptable. I would just point out here that, for example, in the textile industry, 10,000 jobs have been lost in the last five years, and companies go bankrupt every day. Here's about a month ago and a long-term MTC. And so when a Vartex that is also in a very difficult situation comes with a constructive proposal then you are expected to have your answer to their restructuring programs given at the fastest possible time because time really does not exist. The agency was based on its great powers to have a major impact on the business and survival of Croatian firms and we believe that it should understand its work in a way that its role is other than the role of a police officer to be constructive and to help these same economies. So, to be clear, we advocate the full application of all the positive regulations, but AZTN is expected that those in the stabilisation and preservation of this fallen Croatian economy must play a constructive role. A number of examples of the constructive action of agencies in the European Union countries have, despite the very clear rules of competition that are worth finding a model for the rescue of domestic industries, particularly from the processing sector. It would be good to look a little at the measures that Italy, which saved from its textile industry, are the measures. The HNS will support this report, but strongly underline that the economics and resolution ministries, as well as the agency, should have a common goal, which is a developed Croatian economy that will be able to participate equally in the match tomorrow with companies from the European Union. And that's exactly what HNS sees the real challenge of further action by the Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5380	Thank you very much. Ms. Olgica Spevec wishes to address the MPs on behalf of the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5381	Thank you very much to Mrs. MPs for giving me the opportunity to respond and to meet the Croatian Assembly with some facts about, precisely, the topics the lady was talking about. So, as to the inaccuracy of the data we provided in our report, there was a misunderstanding. The agency correctly stated that the 19 decisions of the court, the Administrative Court, were given. The decision relating to the Varteks Agency was received in January 2011 and the decision was published in the National Journal in 2011, so we will process this decision in our 2011 Report. For, as you know, all judgments of the court are, in essence, powerful, or can be dealt with only when they are given and received. So we couldn't state in 2010 the decision we received, for 2010, to specify the decision we received in 2011. Although it is po, it can be seen that it was brought by the court in 2010. And sent something away later. But all of us who, I say, work with the court know that making a decision is one thing, relieving a decision is another thing. So that agency didn't misrepresent anything, but it's simply the fact that it is. As regards the comments made by the economic operator on the work of the Agency relating to the part relating to State aid control, of course these observations from their point of view are justified, because the Agency is assessing, in particular, restructuring programmes but also approving all other State aid schemes or giving green light to individual aids, above all, the rules on the protection of competition. Therefore, all decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which contain the regulations have been published in the National Journal and the Agency has an obligation to implement those decisions. When it comes to restructuring restructuring is a demanding process and I understand that Croatian businessmen are in a very difficult situation when they have to deliver to the Agency a restructuring programme that must be sustainable, which must guarantee that after the granting of support, the economic operator will be able to operate in accordance with market conditions, so without state support. That is, such a process of assessing the restructuring programme is therefore a work done by the Agency together with the support provider and in cooperation with the support user, i.e. the one producing the programme. And in specific cases, the agency has approved a restructuring programme for the economy of which Mrs. Vartex is speaking. However, the state aid regulation states that such support is given once every ten years. After the entrepreneur received support that was above all the support received by the Croatian textile industry in a few years, he returned, or again demanded restructuring support. The Agency also held meetings with it and in those meetings and communication with the support provider indicated in which direction and how the programme should be developed to justify the support. Because, don't forget, so restructuring support is given once – first time – last time. So, once and never again. We have in this case conducted an analysis with the intention that if there are real effects of the crisis on this economic operator to give him extraordinary support for the second time. However, in this economic analysis we have made it appear that the difficulties of the economy are related to the domestic market, with its own business and not to the economic crisis. However, it was only one of the conclusions of the agency that we delivered to the donor and we expect from the donors that if he has any other arguments and explanations to the agency. That's not the way it's done yet. What I would ask here is that you bear in mind that all the support programmes this agency approves today, which it approved yesterday and which will approve tomorrow and the support granted when we become a member of the EU, becomes the competence of the European Commission. So, all these programmes and decisions that we are making are being carried out by the European Commission, and what I would say is more difficult is that it can subsequently carry out an assessment of these programmes or individual support. What does that mean? For example, Hungary's MALEV has received support from the Hungarian State since its founding, but let's say in 2003, 2004, and these support in Hungary have been approved by their Ministry of Finance as an agency as legal. However, these days, i.e. last month, the European Commission made a decision which carried out a supervisory review and ordered the recovery of support to MALEV because, as a result of the State aid rules which are identical to the Croatian State aid rules, it concluded that the support was not approved in accordance with the rules. So, what am I saying? Regardless of these criticisms, we accept them, everyone can make mistakes in their work, but regardless of these criticisms, we are doing this job for the Croatian economy. Neither you, Mrs. MPs nor anyone in Croatia, would like to be ordered to return to Vartex in two or three years with a tight interest rate calculated on the basis of the EU reference interest rate and ordered to return support at a time when we become an EU member, thus showing that neither the agency has done its job nor the donor has drawn up a good programme, and the user is the victim of such activity. Therefore, support users, if they are not satisfied with the Agency's decision, have the Administrative Court, can apply for judicial protection. But they must also be aware of the fact that this agency will do everything possible to ensure that their programme is properly processed, that the approval we give is in accordance with the regulations in order to protect them from the possible return of support when we become a member of the EU. From the end of the negotiations to the present day, all the support we approve I say must be reported to the EU and the European Commission. On Friday, this Parliament ratified the Agreement, which is the Treaty of Accession, in which these provisions stand. So I'd like to ask you nicely if you had that in mind. So, we are not working against any Croatian entrepreneurs, we are not unreasonable, we are working in their favour, we want their programmes and support provided by this country to comply with the regulations, they do not violate the competition and the budget of taxpayers. So, don't worry, we'll make decisions that go in favour of entrepreneurs, but for the long term. Not currently some administration or existing owner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5382	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5383	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected council presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Although they differ in detail, methodologies and materials have been reported almost unanimously in this House over the last 50 days and even reports on the work of the CNB, state lawyers, state audits or various agencies. By reading them, a bad-knower of opportunities in Croatia would get the impression that we are an orderly state in which all control mechanisms in all institutions work almost impeccably. On paper, all institutions are very satisfied with their work, so why not be the Competition Protection Agency which essentially controls and protects under quotes "free trade", which, almost 200 years ago, in the first half of the 19th century, came up with a Scottish economist Adam Smith. Of course, the concept of free trade and competition hides the strengthening of large ones at the expense of smaller, undeveloped and companies and countries. Under the absolute authority of the so-called "Free Market" in which everything is subordinated to the powerful and powerful and large piles of huge profits. To make everything look democratic and orderly, regulators are designed, and thus independent. With little independent dust, the eyes of the public should see what is not there – equality in the competition. We should believe that the same rules apply to Ivica Todorovic, who needs several hours of his own airlocking to visit only some of his properties and Stef from Bednje, who must fight a monopoly TDR from Rovinj in his kiosk. In the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in a country where almost everything is subordinated to the most powerful, to those who, with the authority of no matter how much, whenever and how much war the tax is paid, will act around idyllicly in relation to the collapsing of goods and services. If anyone dares step away from the rules, they show up at his back of the agency and bring him in line. Although in a far more orderly world, we are taught the reality of that so-called. The "free competition" most often and most severely disrupted mostly by the biggest in Croatia is not so. In Croatia, the largest adherence to the Law or if it has already been violated, and this crime is miraculously manifested in public, then under the pressure of the same public and before the court, things are solved on the centuries-old calendar. Even in mid-2008 all major newspapers concluded a forbidden agreement on the single price of newspapers without economic justification, a misdemeanour and administrative dispute are still being conducted in the Croatian courts. The newspapers will be gone, but disputed disputes will still last, as long as it suits the publishers. It's a similar story with Europapress holding weeks and NCL Media groups. Although we listen to daily complaints about the behavior of the powerful consummation, and their even more powerful bosses, few who dare to object, there are no applications at the Competition Protection Agency, and even when suppliers, manufacturers or performers have been waiting for months for paid goods or services. If you disturb or resent the goods with powerful Konzumas, they will end up in some invisible cottages, or they will disappear from the shelves. It's a reality, but there's no room for it in the report because I believe nobody at the Competition Protection Agency regrets it. Why? Because the power of Agrokor exceeds the power and courage of the Agency, then there's no point in complaining about it because you're going to anger the powers of the most powerful company. Therefore, on paper everything seems wonderful even though in everyday communication hundreds of users of services on their backs feel that the HT state in the country is with its rules and practices, according to this report, this super-privileged company has since been converted from the very beginning, before it was handed over, rather than sold, in the competition is impeccable. The explained B-NET requirement, which explained a thousand times the story of electronic communications lines, and the link between these lines and the lower predatory price for the provision of Max TV broadcasting services, did not go to the agency which concluded that HT is not in the ruling position on the relevant television broadcasting market. The Authority argued that B-net, as well as the remaining broadcasters, are in practice overexploiting their own infrastructure they built during the process, if they had not failed. HT in Croatia whose institutions have a vasal relationship with foreign-owned companies cannot lose the dispute, even when with an incredible profit fired by 450 workers, it is defended by the national television they pay, which non-sensa workers thrown out on the street. The report mentions the concentration of radio and radio advertising in two, three places, but it is irrelevant. The New Agency allows for economical almost mathematical analysis under the letter of the Law. NO, on the unwritten and all known concentration on the radio cartel over cartels Report does not look back. NI, this and I won't believe a report from the Council on Electronic Media. A little over a year ago, the SDP warned that the Cat and the Circle around the Cats wanted to master the media space, although it was mastering and then the concentration and then advertising and then the profit-making is inconclusive, the radio cartel is not dealt with, no one officially but unofficially everyone knows everything. In the part in which the Report deals with Croatian Radio Television, it is very plastically proven to be attached to the so-called the free market and the competition on it. This is the competition they say in the Agency's compensation for the provision of services of general interest and so on. It's a TV subscription. The State aid, i.e. the radio-television fee, is classified as a selective economic advantage, which ultimately testifies to the lack of understanding of the role of HRT in a democratic society. But not only in the Agency but in many in Prisavlje, the report says, double funding meets the requirement of transparency because clear and appropriate boundaries are set between public and commercial services. First of all, through accounting separation that enables the state to implement the text of proportionality more easily and to prevent potentially excessive funding of public services. It says believe or not in the report. For the first time in public television history, fear has been expressed that the money obtained from commercial services would be financed by public service. What does that mean? They're afraid that soap money could be financed by some of Krleža's dramas, so it's on paper, of course, reality is different. The public money, or the money of subscribers, has always been financed commercial content, which is contrary to the purpose and essence of public television that is threatened not only in Croatia but also in Europe, because large capital bothers with such discussions and public television, which is really at the service of citizens, the powerful should not or should not have any influence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5384	Thank you very much. In the name of Club IDS, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5385	Your Honor, Mr. President, dear Mrs. Spevec, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Interestingly on page 1 of this report this introduction is about cartels. All of us remember these recent significant milk protests, okay, they got into a lot of stuff, people who abused the incentives for agriculture went 4 billion kunas out of 9.6 billion kunas as long as the state provides for incentives that we'll talk about later, people who used the state infiltrated themselves, people who were part of the former ruling nomenclature, but being there next. So on one side we have Dukat or Lactalis, so there's a monopoly on milk. On the other hand, we have Agrokor and they have a monopoly on trade and they have decided their increased costs, and they will have higher VAT and companies will also get less incentives, etc. They decided to transfer their share of the cost to that final producer of the last one in the chain and that's the milkman. No one can say that some of these milkmen, using incentives, using state land, etc., have come to envious property. I think a lot of them have come to this, but it's an envious piece of work. The true god of that property is the same on the lease, on the loans, so it's not about their property, it's about the bank's property or the property of the lying house. More specifically, our peasants own tractors but I'm going to say it's not their property, but it's property of a leasing house until the moment it's paid off. You all also know that Croatia had 57,000 dairy farms in 2003, today 15 thousand. Meanwhile, 42,000 were gone. If Croatia opens borders and must, if domestic milk comes into competition with those from Slovenia, Austria, France, Croatia will lose its own visibility in agriculture, first of all here I think of this dairy industry. And that's not good. Of course I condemn road closure, no mother, but if Dukat and Agrokor in 2012 reduced the ransom price by 41 June, then following the agreement of the monopolies who are so miraculously according to this agency can classify it into a cartel. If so, it certainly is not good and it should also be fought against. Here on page 6 of this report, among other things, we're talking about what the agency is doing. I won't quote it for the sake of time right now, but I'm asking myself if this agency, for example, can oversee these largest companies in the Republic of Croatia which are, in the right sense, the words cariatide, pillars of economic opportunities in the country. Can you control a Dukat? Can you keep an eye on a consummation? Can you control before mentioning I don't know TDR, large banks, PIFs, etc.? Now allegedly Mr. Starcevic, who as chairman of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's Supervisory Board in 2002, made it possible to buy Anita from Vrsar, becoming director of Croatia's insurance. It has been said for three months that Adris will take over Croatia's security. I'll say let's, but I'd like that system to remain in the hands of the Croatian state. If it is a crime to want Cro insurance, HEP, Croatian banks etc. or the Croatian Post Bank remains in Croatian hands, meaning if it is a crime then ok., but I was raised that the property remains in the hands of the heirs that it is not only property of those who possess it, but also of those who inherit it, and consequently the property of state-owned enterprises should be property of all generations, not just one generation or one team in power. As far as party 21 is concerned, there is a law on the protection of competition, and among other things it is said that only now is the jurisdiction of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia "In view of the fact that the pronunciation of administrative and criminal measures for the violation of the law exists in the jurisdiction of the agencies, it is also allowed to decide on the release or mitigation of penalties for'repentants' which reveal the cartel, the forbidden agreement between competitors. This has given the Agency a far more effective tool to apply the applicable Competition Protection Act in question." Being dominant on the market can't be a sin. This in no way can be illegal, but abuse of that position is clearly legally questionable, immoral and above all illegal, but we do not normally punish it. We dare say that we don't even recognize it. The truth is that only Croatia's largest survives at the moment and everyone else unfortunately fails. 50% of the revenues are made in Croatia, let's release public systems, 100 of the biggest companies. So they control 50% of the markets, the state budget of those 100 biggest companies full of 25%. On the other hand, we have a thousand medium-sized companies from 100 to 300 employees controlling the market or there they move up to 25%, a state budget full of 25%, employing 150 thousand people as well as those 100 biggest ones. On the third hand, we have 70,000 small active companies, employ over 50% of the workers in this country, over 700 thousand, the state budget which is logically higher and the contribution of 700 thousand is here full of 50%, and only 25% of the revenues in the Croatian market. And a man normally asks himself a question, how long? And then we're talking about working on black and so on. Which clearly needs to be contained. On page 23, "the banned agreements between entrepreneurs are either the goal or the consequence of cartel agreements is primarily the abolition of the state competition between direct competitors and the achievement of additional profits from cartel members resulting from their agreement, and not the result of their successful business" etc. On page 24. "In the case against the publishers, one case is mentioned here" etc. It is clear that the media, when my previous ones talked about it, have a terrible power in the Republic of Croatia, but what we will do with those that are never written and are actually financiers, sponsors, advertisers, or as it is said, the tenants of that advertising space in those media houses. It just doesn't touch them. I say it's not even the media that matters, it's the ones behind them. Whether any media (a) will say beware of someone does not matter the financier, the tycoon anyway, which in their newspapers, television houses etc. At the annual level, is it either this advertising space rents with 5, 6, 10 or I don't know how many million kunas? No, they won't. Clearly, they will deal with the Parliament, not even with the government. Why? Because in the government is executive power and then the owners always depend on that executive power, and for the Parliament is the last hole on the playing, which should be changed as soon as possible. Every monopoly I claim in Croatia is in fact a kind of cartel. If nothing else cartel politicians and these companies. And let's not just paint, there wouldn't be a single monopoly without politics. But since every monopoly holds power, opposition or part of the opposition, it's exceptional to fight against these monopolies, but I don't know, and at my own expense, maybe to say it sometimes. As far as party 33 is concerned, the abuse of the ruling position is concerned, so as I said just before only the existence of the ruling position of entrepreneurs on the relevant market is not contrary to the rules in the protection of competition, therefore it is not prohibited. The abuse of that position is forbidden. The law does not define the market share of an undertaking which could be considered as a dominant position but states that an entrepreneur whose market share on the relevant market is more than 40% in the ruling position can be found. As if this provision was more than 40% simply written for some large companies in the Republic of Croatia. On page 48, it is even mentioned between other INAs or monitoring compliance with the conditions in the conditional concentration between the entrepreneurs of MOL Hungary and INA-Industry of Oil d.d. Zagreb. Man is really asking himself a question today after all these processes why this takeover isn't stopped, whether it's just Sanader's fault, whether it's the Agency's fault, the Government, Damir Caine, the third-month administration that started that privatisation, etc., etc. About the support I said I wouldn't say a word except that they amounted to $9.4 billion in that year, that for agriculture they went around about 4 billion a year. But what matters, what this report says, is shipbuilding. How without support means that in this year, without 1 billion kuna, Croatian shipbuilding will survive. I'm not saying that. Whether this shipbuilding will survive only with these Končar's cleaners, but it rightly lifts the entire Adriatic to its feet, Rijeka, Queen, Trogir, Split etc., however, should be kept in mind that the risk of inaction may also be the bankruptcy of all these companies, so simply at this moment man does not know from which death to die. I am simply saying this because on this side 86 is also talking about these opportunities in Croatian shipbuilding, among other things it says that the restructuring of the shipbuilding sector at all stages of these processes was giving its own, meaning thoughts on the Agency, opinions, evaluations, restructuring plans without which, in accordance with the criteria for closing negotiations, the same could not be completed. And now, which the Republic of Croatia has also taken over from the recently ratified treaty on Croatia's accession to the EU, or how it stands where the 27 countries are listed. So it is said that entrepreneurs in the shipbuilding sector that need to be restructured are 3 May, Brodotrogir, the Shipbuilding Industry Split, Brodosplit, Kraljevica Shipyard. It's a good thing the Oil Man isn't mentioned because he's not being treated like a society in trouble. So then he says, the Republic of Croatia has agreed to restructure these entrepreneurs through their privatisation based on a public tender. The bidders submitted restructuring plans to these entrepreneurs, and they were accepted by the Competition Protection Agency, which is you and the European Commission. Whether Koncara will accept the Agency remains to be seen. Entrepreneurs will not receive any new support for recovery or restructuring before the expiry of a period of at least 10 years from the date of signing of the privatisation contract. After accession, the European Commission may order the Republic of Croatia to ensure its return, meaning to the Republic of Croatia, all support for recovery or restructuring with complex interest, what these complex interest rates are I do not know, which have been fixed by the entrepreneur given since 1.3.2006, etc. And today, in an indicative interview in "The Morning List", Končar explains under which conditions he is willing to enter Croatian shipyards. Approximately, let the government give us a billion and 200 million kunas just for May 3rd, and then I'll walk into that company. Page... And so on, it doesn't matter. [[You don't understand.]] And just to say for the end, I see that there is red, we will clearly support this report of a heavy heart but in 2012 it largely defines the Agency's work by 2012, and so is this one for 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5386	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Đuro Popioč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Spevec, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the Annual Report of one of the most important agencies in the Republic of Croatia in terms of the current process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Competition policy is certainly the cornerstone of all EU common policies and integration markets. Competition policy in Croatia is crucial for the full affirmation of the socio-market economy in the context of Croatia's future integration into the EU's single market with more than half a billion potential consumers. The adoption of a new Competition Protection Act in 2009 with 11 implementing regulations during 2010 and 2011, has created a good legislative framework for the establishment of an effective competition protection system in the Republic of Croatia that the EU internal market knows. The introduction of EU acquis and the construction of state aid as adopted in all Member States will open the EU door to Croatia on the basis of legal and realistic conditions which will ensure the functioning of the Croatian economy in a new environment and which opens the possibility of granting support that can improve the Croatian economy, ensure the functioning of individual sectors and contribute to their competitiveness in the European space. Continuing the introduction of the EU acquis into Croatian legislation, the opening and closing of state aid negotiations and the solution for the application of such legislation in Croatian conditions, the Agency has been established as a competition regulator in the Republic of Croatia and has systematically affected the creation of a fundamental framework which has also shown that the criteria of the negotiations have been met. The measures to protect competition, eliminate protectionism in the form of state aid to inefficient entrepreneurs and brakes of liberalisation of certain sectors and control of entrepreneurs who can limit competition to agreements on prices, production or market shares are necessary in any economic situation, especially in the economic crisis. The preparation of all sectors and entrepreneurs is crucial for the face-to-face of competition in the soon-to-be common market, as well as for strengthening their ability to endure the competitive pressure that brings entry into the European Union's internal market, and for creating equal conditions for all those participating in it. However, entrepreneurs certainly need time to adjust in new ways. The European Union market brings pressures on competition from the common market, and it is, of course, the task of Croatian entrepreneurs to respond to the challenges and to take advantage of the common market that they will have to reach with reasonable economic decisions. After the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the Croatian Competition Protection Agency will be involved in anti-trast activities, i.e. abuse of the ruling position and assessment of the agreement between entrepreneurs to obtain new powers, and as so far Croatian cases will remain under the control of the national regulator or AZTN. The Agency will enter the European Competition Network, which obliges Member States to decide and cooperate in certain cases, and to create a common competition policy. Although the European Commission is becoming the only one responsible for the decision on state aid to the national experience of the competition protection body remains very important in order to effectively control the support in all Member States. The liberalisation of the markets and the control of the behaviour of the state and entrepreneurs on the market should aim to increase the benefits for consumers both in terms of lower prices and the possibility of a greater choice of products and services and their availability to all citizens of our country. As regards the international cooperation of the Competition Protection Agency, we see that during 2010 she continued to participate actively in the international network working groups of competition protection bodies and to promote competition rights and policies. At the OECD Global Competition Forum in Paris in 2010, our country was selected along with some others as an example of the extremely successful in implementing the state aid control system. There is also effective bilateral co-operation with the Kosovo Competition Commission, with the Romanian Competition Council, the Bulgarian, Austrian, Macedonian and other competition committees. The market model of the economy has proved to be the most successful so far. The market economy is influenced by natural resources, both material and human, the way capital, technology are used, but the most developed market relations. The degree of market relations development depends on both the efficiency and efficiency of each economy. Most economic issues on the market economy are being addressed right on the market. The market is a mechanism in which customers and sellers interact to determine in a particular product the price, quantity and prices are ultimately the most important factor in the market economy. The role of the Competition Agency is exceptional in terms of the scope of the business, the expertise of the business, the complexity, the importance of the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia. The agency largely directs Croatia's economic future because its efficiency depends on the fate of many employers, employees and Croatian economies as a whole. The role is to promote efficiency, equality, macro-economic conditions and stability, and the question is often asked why someone produces something, even when they produce what if the market is not open, available, if not equal conditions for all participants. And that's why efficiency and equality isn't really available if there's no developed market relations. The role of the agency is also important in the abuse of the ruling position, and the agency is expected to use its legal opportunities, to develop market relations that will focus on the well-being of all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, I would take the opportunity to highlight the role of the Competition Agency and, in particular, Ms. Spevec in the negotiation and closure process, eight of the two most difficult and last closed. In 2010, it was the very process that was crucial. Only in June 2010 is Chapter 8. – Market competition open and precisely thanks to the joint and extreme efforts and work of the Competition Agency which was actively involved in negotiations with partners... in Brussels with the Ministry of Economy and Partners mentioned here today. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I am sure since I participated in this process without this partnership relationship and without the active role of the Competition and Opening Agency, and of course there would be no closure of Chapter 8. So it was about the steel sector, it was about shipbuilding, it was also about the Law on Croatian Radio Television that we hear is about to change again these days, and that was also a condition for opening and closing Chapter 8. Let me mention the shipbuilding because it's already been mentioned. It was precisely with the assistance of the consulting or consulting role the agency played in this process that successfully developed programmes, restructuring programmes for Croatian shipbuilding, which was also a condition for the closure of Chapter 8. All that needs to be done is to revive these programmes and then for Croatian shipbuilding there will be no problem. I can also personally testify against what we heard in the presentation of Ms. HNS, the Agency is indeed in my practice, so in that experience very actively and intensively participated in all restructuring programmes related to certain firms in difficulty and related to the textile industry. The Agency has also participated in the evaluation, but before that, in the preparation of the State aid programme for both industry and textile industry in particular. And of course, in the end, it rated them both acceptable and based on these programmes, the Croatian textile industry received state support both in 2010 and in 2011. I think I absolutely cannot agree with some of the findings here on the role of the Competition Agency which is one, in fact, if not the only perhaps light point that has managed to build and implement the conditions such as tomorrow are actually waiting for us when we enter full membership of the European Union and with regard to state support, of course, and also with regard to all those obligations that the Agency and the entire infrastructure must make. Today it does so on the internal market and for Croatian businessmen, tomorrow it will, of course, be important throughout the EU market because our entrepreneurs will have the opportunity and opportunity to behave in this big European common market as well. In view of the Agency's activities, therefore in negotiations with the EU, with regard to competition, cooperation with sectoral regulators, bilateral and international cooperation, transparency and communication with the public, state support programmes, promotion of competition policy and the effectiveness of the Agency's work as legal persons with the public authority of the HDZ Representatives Club will accept this Labour Report. We commend the Agency's work and competition protection policy that creates conditions for economic growth based on the competitiveness and efficiency of the national economy and encourage the Agency to continue its activities towards full establishment of fair and correct market relations, and I advise policy to keep its fingers as far away from this agency as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5388	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5389	Well, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my fellow drinkers that the shipbuilding and textile restructuring programmes are extremely well prepared. As they are prepared and carried out, I think we can testify every day, especially in the textile industry where in the last five years 10,000 people have lost their jobs and companies go bankrupt every day. So much for the quality of the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5390	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Igor Radinovic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5391	Thank you, Mr. President, Mrs. Spevec, with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. In front of us, colleagues said, another in a series of reports we bring with the annual retreat, so the 2010 Report adopted by the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament. Although this report is not like some previous report, for example, the State's Attorney's Office's report stood somewhere in Parliament's drawers for 5.6 months, it came before the end of the year, and then there was some technical changes, so maybe there was no possibility before. But not to mention, my colleagues said before me, as the 2010 report really concerns an extremely important agency and an extremely important report, since competition protection policy is both a fundamental and a key EU policy, and as said in this report, my colleague also quoted as the cornerstone of all EU common policies and the driver of the Union's single market. Markets of 500 million inhabitants, numbering 100 times larger than Croatia, and financially probably hundreds of times larger. The environment we have been entering for less than a year and a half with all the advantages and risks and disadvantages of the Croatian economy that are therefore entering this large market. As in previous years, and I looked at it as a new representative of the Reports of previous years, preparing for this debate, the report is indeed very exhaustive, transparent and contentious and on this side I commend it. It is already on the Agency's website where there is also a number of other information related to the Agency with so-called annual reports, working plans there is also a review of the legislative framework related to the work of the Agency, any decisions taken in the integrated complete text, press release, expert opinions even media articles. You accurately counted 1610 media articles in 2010 which therefore proves this thesis presented by colleagues before me that it is indeed a very important institution. It is evident from all of this that an objectively small institution with 50 employees and a little less than 17 million kuna budget is available in comparison with other institutions in Croatia, but also compared to internationally comparable bodies with the same tasks, which also has a smaller analysis of which is doing its job well and deserves the support of this report as well as the work as a whole. Especially given the scope, demand, necessary expertise for these sensitive issues, which I fully agree with my predecessor. My colleagues and colleagues increase the level of rule of law in the field of competition and state aid is the main task of this agency's work. The measures to protect competition through the elimination of protectionism by inefficient entrepreneurs, the removal of barriers to the liberalisation of certain economic sectors, and the control of entrepreneurs who are trying to limit competition by agreements on prices, production or market division or those who are trying to push out their competitors by misusing their own ruling position on the market are necessary for the healthy development of each economy, and also directly protect consumers, our citizens. Therefore, by providing them with a wider choice and the ultimate price of a particular product and service. There have been discussions and criticisms of individual decisions in previous discussions and related and non-related to the Agency's mandate. It would be worrying that there is no reaction today in this debate and that there are no ones in the public, that there are no unsatisfactory what it would mean or that the agency is not doing its job or doing it underactively to say so. So in view of the importance and the amount of decisions to be made, it is good to have a reaction to that. In the SDP club, we hold that the transparency of work and this maximum openness of the agency towards information, which I spoke about earlier, the main quality of the work of this body and its leadership, and therefore the mission of the agency which is among other things defined as strengthening the culture of competition and promoting awareness of the benefits that it brings to citizens, therefore to consumers and taxpayers fair competition and control of the behaviour of entrepreneurs and state in the market. This report contains a detailed description, a really detailed description of the work and activities of the agency in 2010, which was especially marked by that year, particularly marked by the beginning of the application of the new Competition Protection Act, which entered into force on 1 October, my predecessors said, and this significantly strengthened, increased powers and strengthened the actual effectiveness of the Agency's work on the protection of competition. This primarily refers to the possibility of self-declaration, i.e. administrative criminal measures for infringements of the Law on the Protection of Competition, which until then was the jurisdiction of infringement courts. Two regulations have also been introduced without delay, hence the Regulation on criteria for the imposition of administrative criminal measures, as well as the Regulation on criteria for the release or reduction of administrative criminal measures for those entrepreneurs which apply therefore in exceptional cases, the possible cases of the existence of a penitent who first reveal and demonstrate to the Agency the existence of a price agreement, market division or something like that. It has already been said that as many as 250 cases in the field of competition protection and 73 cases in the control of state aid have been resolved for a total of 323 cases in 2009 so that a quantitative increase has been observed in this field. The penalty for non-compliance with the competition imposed by the competent courts was 2.9 million kuna, relatively modest but this is still an increase of around 1/3 compared to the previous year. Following the application of the new Act and the higher powers of the Agency, conditions were finally created for effective prevention in the sense of deterring entrepreneurs from the intentional infringements of the Law, which, unfortunately, occurred frequently in practice. Among the more interesting items partially processed by my colleagues before me, are the solutions to the existence of two cartels, so price deals for news publishing activities in Croatia, the first agency identified 9 publishers who raised daily bills for the same amount of kuna, we remember from 6 to 7 and one smaller media the cheapest, most read daily newspaper in Croatia from 3 to 4 and thus directly agreed retail prices. The second cartel, according to the Agency's accusations, was also an agreement to simultaneously raise weekly prices by the two biggest publishers in Croatia EPH and the NCL group and the agency found a number of other injuries particularly interesting through the ban on the conclusion of vertical agreements which were also M-SAN groups and the like. Since it is and is still about the application of the old law you guess that, a colleague Vuksic spoke about the fact that the infringement proceedings are still pending on the basis of the Agency's indictment proposals, of course those entrepreneurs have filed charges against the administrative court against the solutions in question and... in their response he remained in the proceedings and these administrative disputes are still ongoing, even though many caravans have passed in the meantime. In particular, a major contribution has been made to the Agency's participation in membership negotiations in the European Union since 2010, for Chapter 8 of the Market Competition. The Agency, together with the competent ministries, worked to meet the criteria for closing negotiations, especially for the Croatian economy, particularly a sensitive area in the area of state aid. By giving a number of opinions and answers to the questions of state authorities and local self-government units to the Law and regulations, the Agency has directly and indirectly encouraged changes that bring more markets and competition to unwarranted closed and economic sectors. The public may not be familiar enough, but the Competition Protection Agency has helped other cities to make changes in the regulation of automotive transport, services and liberalisation of the market by giving an opinion to the City of Zagreb City Assembly. The result of all of you and all citizens of Zagreb and visitors is a visible increase in the quality of taxi transport services through a significantly lower service price to end-users, but also the opening of new jobs as well as many other special benefits brought by a healthy business climate. And finally allow me not least to conclude that the Competition Protection Agency for its work has won a continuous as well as previous years an unconditional assessment of state audit for its work. The SDP advocates' club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5392	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic on behalf of the HDSSB Club. The truth is the Agency has done a professional and good job for the city of Zagreb as far as taxi drivers are concerned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5393	Here's Mr. President of the Parliament, Mrs. Spevec, colleagues and fellow MPs. We in the HDSSB do not share this great enthusiasm and enthusiasm with the work of the Agency, as are colleagues from the SDP and HDZ, and we congratulate the Agency for having managed to help establish a competitive taxi transport in the city of Zagreb, but we do not think that this is close enough to the Agency's work in order to be too important for large praises. This Report, therefore, is primarily focused on competition protection and enforcement control operations and on other State aid matters. According to the Law on the Protection of Competition applicable to all forms of prevention, distortions of competition by entrepreneurs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Agency shall implement those rules on competitions for all markets other than the financial or banking services market for which the Croatian National Bank is responsible. This report reminds me of unregistered non-Croatian Russianism instead of the word structure, but well, the report is not the only report most of the reports include these concepts of structure and design. Therefore, the Authority's competence is in the field of competition, so this is about the competition for support is another item of the agenda, the marketing of prohibited agreements, the abuse of positions, the adoption of measures, the assessment of the concentration permit, and the Agency is accordingly obliged to apply the criteria resulting from the application of the competition rules in the European Union. The report lists 323 resolved cases in 2010, and that in 2010, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia made a total of 19 decisions on charges against the Agency's decision and that in fact the decisions of the Agency were confirmed we also see in the government's statement that this was 18, that one of the decisions of the Agency was not confirmed at least that is the case in the government's statement. The fines imposed in the amount of 2.9 million kuna. What is good and what we welcome is that, according to the amendments to this Competition Protection Act, it is possible to impose administrative criminal measures on infringements of the Law that enter the Agency's jurisdiction in the first degree and thus to enable and decide the release or mitigation of penalties for potential cartel offenders, and also to create conditions for preventing or deter entrepreneurs from deliberately or intentionally creating a cartel or an infringement of this Agreement. Therefore, when it comes to prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs, i.e. the establishment of cartels, under the terms of those prohibited agreements, means cartel agreements and, therefore, horizontal agreements between competitors in a market which they commit not to compete with each other on that market, such agreements are generally secret, oral, informal, agreed, difficult to detect. Most often, members of such an informal cartel agree on prices, quantity of production, rebates, source of customers, supply of goods, selection of areas to be supplied. But they can also define their entire activities. In this way they actually share profits, close the market for new competition or combine each other. You need to be blind so you don't see the formed cartels whether we have any knowledge of it or not. In areas of highly defined high income activities in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, teleoperators can prove and claim that they are not cartel-organised specifically in mobile phone, but it is no problem to see their prices, the way they coordinate them, the way they change them, the way they change the terms of the offer. We know how regulated the price of INA oil derivatives is, but we also see these few remaining oil suppliers in retail regulation of their prices. So systematically tracking the INA-no. Someone mentioned it before when it came to radio stations, especially small radio stations. We know that a whole series of small radio stations are owned by several private owners. I don't remember that phenomenon being followed by this agency in any way. Newspapers, press prices, the example is stated, this example remains in court. So this agreed rise in the price of newspaper publishers. Therefore, we consumers need not be too smart or too bright to live and see what is happening in the world around you. We see very well and ourselves in a way that large not monopolies but agreed monopolies are equating prices and offers and that this can very hard be a coincidence. There are many such examples not only at national level but also at lower local levels. We have an example of a whole series of car schools in small places that have very systematically uniform prices. I can set an example in my life. In the town of Požega geodete, we have 5.6 geodetic offices that have a uniform price in kuna, which do not adhere to the rules on the prices of Croatian chamber architects and engineers, but there is already one price list and one service equal in kuna in all 5 or 6 offices. So it works out clearly, and the rulebook is usually very complex. No one can determine a geodetic service according to one price list if it is a series of parameters that the Regulation determines. For each individual geodetic elaborate that is being built, so if someone offers you a price and knows what it will cost in 5 hours, as soon as you say good day, it means that they have already agreed to that service. I solved my problem so that I went to the geodetics in another city that was not in line with this group and got a favor after making the elaborates that were much lower prices. Otherwise, these prices of geodetic services are rudely high and do not have any footholds in the real amount of work invested in this particular job. The architect also, the price of architectural services is too high for all of us citizens. Legal services, public records services are services that make Croatian citizens grumble like apples. And their prices, regardless of whether the cartels are agreed or defined by certain rules, are completely disproportionately high in relation to the quantity and value of the services delivered. The legalisation process of tens of thousands of illegal and partly illegal objects in the Republic of Croatia is now under way, and the main financial obstacle in speeding up the process is precisely incoherent and rudely expensive prices of geodetic and architectural services. And there is no rational and meaningful reason not to make these services half as cheap and to be available to Croatian citizens, and that these offices continue to make excellent profits. Of course, most of the currently mentioned here is not under the authority of the Competition Protection Agency. The report also states that, from the point of view of the regulations in the protection of competition, the application of a discount in prices whose height is conditioned by previously achieved traffic over a certain period of time and the obligation of the buyer to obtain products exclusively from a particular producer or supplier, etc. Discount for fidelity, and discount which depends on the amount of future sales made by the customer targeted discount that they are banned. So discount on loyalty and targeted discount that they are banned under the Competition Protection Act and so on is allowed. Quantitative discounts, therefore, quantitative rebate on a specific defined purchase of a larger quantity of a product in one order. Now, it's quite clear that this kind of addressed provision raises questions about all those different consumer cards in various chains, is that even many are called loyalty cards, so this is exactly the category of discount for loyalty. Today, they are more or less all retail food sector chains, as well as quite a number of non-food sector chains, and they all come down more or less precisely in the category of discount for loyalty or targeted discount. I'm not going to list it by the noun, and all these discounts are card-based right now aimed at attracting customers to buy the longer they buy in that particular chain, which will be Benified by a certain reward, discount or reward buy. And some of this applies, of course, to the concept of Agrokor, even to the integration of consumers through several different types of retail services and activities that are all being rewarded across the pooled points on one card. I didn't notice or think that there was no public reaction from this agency to this phenomenon, such as the agency's reaction to paying the salary or part of the salary over the bonuses, which also violates the competition or, for example, the Christmas Day or the Christmas card part. In the case of market concentration control, the Agency shall determine its effects on competition and possible barriers to market access, and in particular in cases where the concentration on the market creates a new or stronger existing position of the concentration participants. We are witnessing the establishment of concentration in the press market, it is quite clear, where we have two groups of very vague but in any case non-Croatian ownership structures that have established a complete monopoly on the press market, which, of course, will now further assist in shutting down or possibly selling English and Vesnik, so today our former giant, and today the mutilated cripple from which everything that could have been resolved and become part of probably one of these two groups of media, and the most recent newspaper is currently one newspaper that might be best called 48 seconds, so long reading that newspaper, press, but good news. As for the control of concentration, the role of the Agency in the case of INA, some others talked about it, so I'm not actually going to look back on it. Concentration on the insurance market, especially mandatory car insurance, but also other types of insurance policies quite uniformly. Now the banks, something else short on banks. It is said that soon surveillance will be given to the Agency as well as to banks. Banks and their ownership concentration, which is particularly harmful to Croatian citizens, subject and supervision, or not to the supervision of the CNB, and the report states that by entering the EU, jurisdiction to protect competition in the banking sector will be taken over by the Agency, in accordance with Article 373. Credit institutions Act 95. If we sell to foreign capital that today has 98% of the total bank profit and the last domestic Croatian postal bank, we can count on even before we enter the EU to have a 100% profit concentration in the foreign-owned banking sector. I wonder if the Competition Protection Agency would mind if, for example, the Croatian postal bank had been recapitalised by the CNB with 500 million kuna, since the CNB already has over 10, 11 or 12 billion capital, which is mixed through various securities, which the Croatian Parliament cannot receive a detailed report on either. I note that CNB's capital is Croatian national capital, and similar capitalisations have been carried out in a number of EU countries where central national banks have saved their national economies right through the recapitalisation of their banks. In the end, we express our dissatisfaction with the softness of this report, as did the work of this agency, according to our judgment. We call on the Competition Protection Agency to protect competition rules in the Republic of Croatia with much more determination in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5394	Thank you, too. First one notice. In accordance with Article 207(2), The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 11.05 a.m. for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Now we're moving on to a ten-minute debate. The first one for discussion was registered by a respected representative, Melita Mulic. She's not in the assembly. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. Next respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5395	Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Spevec with an associate. The colleagues have already spoken to the clubs about the work of the Agency itself, and I personally think it is an extremely important, necessary and good institution that needs to be developed and its work needs to be developed, but here I would take advantage of the opportunity and speak about the free market and the work of entrepreneurs an general on that same market. Market and competition, business and struggle for their part of the market area have long since fallen out of the wild capitalism framework and have far removed from non-institutional freefields. The growing number of different human activities results in an increasing number of entrepreneurs seeking their share of the market cookie. The almost biggest problem of competition in Croatia, in my personal opinion, is the huge representation of the state as a market entity. We are slightly older witnesses to the public state economy of the former Yugoslavia, and together we have witnessed the Croatian public economy in the past 20 years. There are numerous problems in the Croatian economy, and I believe that one of the biggest ones is that over 60% of the economic potential is held in their hands by the state. The state economy except that the undried polygon for theft and corruption is particularly fertile in the adoption of the wrongs. political decisions in the economy that regularly result in disaster. The economy and the economy require exclusively income decisions. As soon as political involvement takes place, the steep-headed spiral of non-profits and permanent ones, some times inexplicable losses, and then pays citizens and citizens, and often in unlimited amounts of money. Another anomaly of the state economy is incompetence in a negative sense. Who can compete with the state in the public, open market and who can win the same country in the competition. And the third one in my opinion is that the devastating anomaly of the state economy is that corruption is naturally linked to the state economy, but it goes hand in hand and damages resulting from corruption, making wrong decisions. It is terrible, unforgivable and punishable that someone has received some amount or something to be corrupt, but much greater, more long-term damage is the consequence and always the wrong ones to encourage decisions. That's where the damage has been for years, and we've been witnesses for decades. In order for competition to exist at all, the state must be removed from the market, but the role of the country is dry. The state is necessary in regulating fair market relations and is necessary in the control of fair competition. There the role of the state is irreplaceable and it is obliged to find all possible instruments to meet and its most important roles in the economy, to enable all business entities to have an equal match and to control that same match. I also noted that the growing number of human activities resulted in an increasing number of entrepreneurs seeking their share of the market cake. Thus, the market is becoming more complex and market regulation is becoming more complicated. The mechanisms of regulation are different, the techniques are increasingly specialized. This job requires highly professional and scientifically subdued personnel. This is where universities, specialized institutions, scientific institutes, our Agency are used today. The ongoing banking crisis, i.e. The crisis in the capital market and the endlessly expensive recovery of it only supports the importance of regulation and desiccatation of the state's control of proper trade in the markets of all kinds. And the state must take full responsibility for it. It is not possible to include clearly all instruments to regulate market fairness and competition that the State is obliged to establish in a brief discussion. I'd still mention two very important instruments to me. The first is the judiciary, i.e. fast, efficient, fair, independent judiciary. And I think that's exactly the order of speed, efficiency, justice, independence. All economic disputes that last longer than a year lead to the destruction of the economy. Only as a resolution for these less interested and less-sented citizens one fictitious example. Unless the manufacturer of shoelaces who employs five workers, the customer pays the delivery of three million ties a year, and he clearly invested in repromaterials, electricity, water, wages to workers, taxes, contributions, all his assets and raised a smaller cash loan and then for more than a year he can't push the debt through court epilogue is clear. A small businessman goes down, six people go to the stock market, their families become social cases. And what about those who hire 50, 100 and more people. A swift, effective, fair and independent judiciary is necessary to resolve economic disputes. Another instrument I would like to mention is our agency whose 2010 report we are discussing today, the Competition Protection Agency. There are an average tough entrepreneurs in Croatia who are despite all the difficulties, the problems of the indifference of false competition, the maternal relationship of the state, the planting of local self-government, the problem solution of institutions, etc. etc. Yet, they managed to survive with their toughness and developed their economic activity. Some individuals have even developed into respectable entrepreneurs, and they have positioned their businesses in regional and European proportions as what they think they are. These entrepreneurs, i.e. companies, are the ones most interested in an equal competition and they have and must have protection from the Competition Protection Agency and they must benefit from it. The Agency itself must serve the healthiest part of the Croatian economy in order for this vital part to be a motive for all to improve, improve and raise their business to as high as possible income. The agency is important, the agency must penetrate further into all pores of the market economy, various private and state monopolies, and must prevent or regulate them. And one of the things I would certainly like to mention is the entrepreneurial climate in Croatia today. It is amazing that even after 20 years of escape from the agreed economy, we have not freed ourselves from the way we think, but it will make him rich. Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activities have only one task, which is to create profits, i.e. Earnings. The more someone earns from their entrepreneurial activity, the more successful he is. Successful entrepreneurs must be our pride and example for others to imitate them. Croatia must enable its citizens and citizens to materially enrich their entrepreneurial activities. Being rich isn't immoral, being immoral. Being rich doesn't mean being a bad member of the community. Being rich means being successful, smart, capable. We should be proud of successful and wealthy entrepreneurs, we must give them social recognition and status as we should be proud and give social recognition and status to successful artists or athletes or anyone else who rises above average by their abilities and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5396	Thank you, Your Honor. Next, a ten-minute debate was held by Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5397	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I'm actually going to concentrate on two things that seem extremely important to me. One is abuse of the ruling position. She wasn't talked about enough here in this House. In particular, discussions took place more over the past years to discuss the criticism of the Agrokor concentration index. I'm not going back to that, but I'm going to say something. And other things that I think are extremely important, and it's just part of the competition. These are the margins and the special position of Zagreb and their standard when it comes to margins. What I have to say is no matter what the ruling position is as such and legally envisaged, that we have a situation that the strongest today don't even have to list them using exactly that ruling position, and then in certain cases from that position I would say prevailing, or surpassing the laws of this country. It is not and cannot be acceptable for cooperatives and employees to be paid through bonuses. The introduction of an alternative means of payment is prohibited by law. It is not and cannot be acceptable that the specific market that should be regulated by the laws of this country should be governed by large entities themselves. That in this country just has to stop. This means that the role of the Agency is in this sense and as I see it, it must be stricter and more supervised. Without that, we won't get a chance to make any progress. Things about paying, things about me I'd say regulatory must regulate the state and not an individual economic operator. Consider, for example, the still most powerful country in the world of the United States. So there are the dragon sentences given to Microsoft, given to those who are completely natural, because that is the law of the market, they want to achieve a dominant position on the market. But why were they punished? So they can have the other ones. Why? That's why they have the chance and the smaller ones, because without those smaller ones, there's no free market, and America knows it. And they do, because when they start eating their substance then the fundamental principles of the free market economy are compromised. And that's why they do it no matter how strong they are, but they punish them when they're in violation and when they're in failure. Because if they don't give everyone a chance, if they don't give everyone an easy start and equal conditions for everyone, they're going to get into a situation where they won't have the easiest chance to start businesses anymore, that they won't have the biggest investment in research and development, and they're going to put themselves in a position of innovation, technological, and then, economically, they're going to stagnate. And that is what we must prevent in Croatia. Concentration and abuse, i.e. abuse of the ruling position necessarily through monopoly status, necessarily through concentration leads to a higher price of services. It necessarily leads to a higher price of services. I also represent the citizens of the City of Zagreb in front of whom I was eventually elected here and in Parliament. The high margins may be the most pronounced of Zagreb compared to all other parts of Croatia. Here we buy and drink twice as expensive coffee as anywhere in Croatia. We pay twice as expensive services as anywhere else in Croatia. We pay double for certain things even overpaid food. The margins in Croatia are extremely, extremely high compared to the countries in the environment. There were also some analyses with Italy, Austria, with the countries of Slovenia even, Hungary with which we love and want to compare margins in Croatia are extremely high. The message reduce margins and this is an automatic effect for the standard of Croatian citizens. Because with that money and they'll be able to buy more and that money will end up spending again because there's just nowhere else to end up in the situation where we're in right now, there's sure as hell not going to be any accumulation, or savings growth. So that money will end up again in consumption, again will end up in tax I would say giving and the message is cut margins. And now some people are going to say malicious if we cut the margins then we're going to have to fire people. It's just not true. Extra profit must be an appropriate situation in which we are located. Germany has the lowest passive interest rates. They have low economic, low inflation and high economic growth. That is why today is the country that survived all the crises because they started reforming in time and took care of it. Extra profit, margins, is definitely one of the effects that affects the lives of our people. By reducing margins, we would immediately achieve that our people live better tomorrow. And I am particularly sensitive because the Zagrebers pay the biggest margins in Croatia and the Zagrebers are the most affected by the margins in Croatia because they have to pay twice as expensive coffee everywhere in the city and out of town as in the rest of Croatia. And if you had to choose what you should actually do in Croatia in four years as a basic, this is exactly what makes this legal certainty possible. So, easy start for start-ups and equal chance. Without this equal chance developed by European countries, those countries that are most advanced today recognise as necessary, as a substance that can ensure growth has no economic growth and no progress for Croatia. Croatia is still not a country of equal odds today. Croatia today is still not a country where everyone can achieve equal rights. And that is why it is extremely important in the next term, and therefore I believe that the Government will deal with it very well and will, at least try to improve some of the things, create the same conditions. The same chance, the same chance for everyone and create legal certainty. Because without that legal certainty, there is definitely no success or progress for our country and citizens and for local self-government, for everyone. Why am I talking about this sector of trade and the sector that includes I would say high margins? Because he employs 150 thousand people directly, and indirectly another large number of tens of thousands of cooperatives. And according to the Competition Protection Agency, all those who deal with the regulation of this country, and that's what we are here first of all, and then the government is that without stricter prevention and without stricter control of the precisely regulating of the area of these entities that have the abuse of the ruling position there is no progress for this country. It's just not gonna be possible. If we want to protect 150 thousand workers working in the trade sector, if we want to protect the cooperatives, if we want to protect the citizens who pay in Croatia still the biggest margins, then we have to exercise this stricter control. It does not index the concentration of businesses but abuse of ruling positions. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5398	Thank you, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is Honorable Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bernardic, it is quite true that Croatia is not a country of equal chances of life, but when you set an example of the City of Zagreb where citizens pay twice as much coffee, imagine how citizens in Slavonia and Baranja feel when they don't even have the cheapest coffee. When they have neither to eat nor to eat, they have neither bread nor milk and collect in garbage cans to earn any income to survive that day. And when you stress that inequality in life, then I think it's fair to mention other parts, and here I have to mention at this point the end from which we come that citizens of Slavonia and Baranja much more than worry about how much a coffee will cost that they will even have a job and allow their children to study, not to live off their parents' pensions, so that those poor pensions feed and children of those pensioners, and very often they are the only source of income that their grandchildren can even finish their schools. And then unfortunately after schooling, instead of getting a job going to the Employment Service. By agreeing with you in your presentation on the inequality of the chance to live in the Republic of Croatia, it must be pointed out in this Croatian Assembly that the most difficult situation is unfortunately, and also to the shame and central government of Slavonia and Baranja. And we expected the new government to be different, not just another government. We also expected this on the draft budget. So far, we're disappointed. We hope that the promise made by the prime minister in his speech when the persistent government in relation to Slavonia will finally begin to come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5400	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5401	Not to be in... It only doubles the price of coffee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are orphans in Zagreb and everywhere. And a large number of Slavons live here in Zagreb, and I am sorry that one of us is so pro-pulsing, so our potentially exploitable Croatian end of Slavonia has stagnated for years. Unsullied by war, without a chance to develop, without an opportunity to do what we have said and what I am underlining for an equal chance and for the possibility of employment, and that is why we are talking about the margin problem, the extra profit problem, because the next step in monopoly and creating extra profit is what? Cost-cutting, firing people. And that's the step that we definitely can't allow and that we have to talk about here and every other time we talk about, that equal chance, healthy competitiveness can only provide new employment and thank you for giving me the chance to still debate this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5402	Thank you very much. The next replica, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5403	Here, Mr. Bernardić went for coffee and coffee margins I think that if I can be so free and notice that the Zagrebers are more suffering the margins on the water that you raised in holding than the coffee margins. A rise in the prices of water in the city of Zagreb is the margin of incompetence and margin on corruption and on losses both on your Čović and on your Family and Church and on all others who come in that chain. Therefore, this issue also margins and this issue of mutually established relations, particularly so-called. a public private partnership where public money ends up in private pockets, you share 20, 30 or 50%, and when such a few in the chain agree to increase prices, of course, then we have the exception of the inability to establish a competitive public sector, so that it will be competitive when they cross three arms by 10% and the price increases. These are the margins, these criminal margins are our bigger problem than those margins that end up on paper and which are taxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5404	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5405	Well, actually, Agent, I'd like to take your line, but since you didn't understand, I'm afraid it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5406	Thank you very much. Let's discuss it further. The next one for a ten-minute debate, a respected representative, Boro Grubisic, appeared. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5407	Thank you very much. I did not replicate my colleague Bernardic, but drink coffee on Stradun and see how much coffee there is compared to Zagreb. And further, you yourself know that according to official data here, my colleague Sabo was, one year, Vukovar was declared the most expensive city, so don't say what's not quite so. NO, let me go back to the topic and that is the Report of the Competition Protection Agency. My colleague Đurovic was well-detecting the problem or exposed because I do not like to use these foreign words as well as this credible rather than credible on page 3 and whether 4 that the Agency gave a credible opinion, I hope it is credible where 50 employees of the Agency compared to 38 employees in the same agency in Austria did a job on page 15, where the number of resolved cases in the Agency writes but it is not the only job I must admit, in a total of 323 cases. Also in the general part of this Report is about successful and financial business where 10% was saved compared to the estimated 18.5 million kuna, so the Agency's costing it is 16 700 which is commendable at least in that part is whether. NO, WE ALL KNOW HERE AND THE CITIZER KNOWS WELL THAT THIS NUMBER OF CASES THAT IS TREATMENTED HERE AND THAT IS EVEN TREATLY DESCRIPTION OF ALL WHAT IT IS, ALL THE Entrepreneurs, WHO HAVE BEEN WORKED AND WORKED TO SAY THAT THE AGENCY IS SO DIFFERENTLY DESCRIPTION. I think this is just an ice santa this 323 and we have a lot more obvious objects as my colleague Djurovic said that when 2 and 2 are summed up, what is visible to anyone who has been involved in social life, who buys, who is therefore who wants to see it then it is quite obvious. Here is an example, today's headlines of the newspaper say that despite the legalization of construction facilities, very little response is in connection with this legalization. Here in Zadar County about 1100 and in Zagreb 700 etc., although the facilities are about 150 thousand illegal. So why is that? Yesterday, in my vineyard, I was cutting down a path that had grown up, so I wanted to branch out with my neighbor and take out a geodette, so he told me who was cutting, who helped me, that the geodetics were more than 2,000 kunas in the field to draw my way. So I'm very surprised today is just the topic of the discussion material that can just such a thing from life, from real, real life being brought out. Well, when you still have the geodetics, so when you're still building an architect's house, it's a disaster. How many margins are there, how much money is there. Who regulates that? Is there really cartels or in law services and in public notes that we don't talk? It used to be the office for general affairs in that former state of rotten, the General Affairs Office dealt with it with a large printing press for some today's 50 kuna if we translate south rotten dinars. Well, that's how the country failed. Banks are not the subject of work and to say research by this agency, God forbid they are, and for example, in the neighbouring country, I don't want to look at it, those who attacked us in 91, 92 to 95, until we beat them in that country, regardless of their institutions, agencies, institutions, institutions, foundations, foundations, offices, centres, and I don't know what's in there, so that state has protected its citizens from chasing banks at the robbery of citizens and in connection with the Swiss franc. This country of ours, no agency can protect us from it. And the citizens were robbed. From who? So from commercial banks that have 98% capital ownership in the Republic of Croatia. And now here are you who have taken over the power to propose that 2% of that poor post office bank also hand over and sell into the hands of those. Instead of that ridiculous little amount needed to capitalize that bank eventually as they have capitalized on the business and I don't know which banks, so I'd almost say they don't sell them to strangers. First the citizens paid for the recapitalisation, and then they were handed in nicely for I'd say a small amount to the foreigners. What this country does not make all its financial transactions to all those how many employees no one knows or the minister from Brač Arsen Bauk to all their salaries, all transactions go right through the Croatian Post Bank. Would that but I'm saying the agency isn't in charge of the banks, would that be some kind of monopoly? I don't know. And why wouldn't it be a monopoly going through some other bank, what kind of score is that? But okay, let's move on. Here is the report that mentions the teleoperator and theirs to say the monopolies position, so here's an example of our oil industry our INA for whose prices on the market every Monday or Tuesday we have reports from the Ministry of Economy on fuel prices, so oil derivatives. And who's forming that price? No, he's not forming a ministry. It only announces that the INA has declared, interesting. So why is the ministry even trying to publish the price, so let the INA publish the prices, pay the commercial on TV. If the ministry and no other agencies have the right to influence that price. And now we're reading that the price of oil has dropped on the world market, but unfortunately it doesn't appear to be in Mediterranean. Now, prices will continue to rise with us, and in the world it will fall. It's those paradoxes, actually it's a robbery, a robbery of the perfidious like the one I was talking about in connection with the Swiss franc. Will the agency, this agency that has been praised by the SDP and HDZ Joint Competition Protection Agency when it gets the right to oversee and work and possible I will not say malfeasance, but abuse etc. In the banking sector and, by entering the EU, being effective in that part, there is a word and an effective but effective one, effective is that we will see more. In any case, this report is visible in every area from which to say, so then there are very shy mentions of incentives and milk producers, and I am convinced that and those 0.41 kunas what the ministry has given for milk producers, which are now being abolished and what is included here. It may be in that second part of the debate, this second point that goes on about incentives but it is not indicated here that this 41 lip is also included in the regulation of this agency. So maybe I'll ask the principal if she did, and that came by the regulations and directives in Chapter 8 and that 41 lip just questionable and in connection with the EU directive? Here, thank you very much. I see it's red, so I won't abuse this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5408	Thank you, Mr. Representative. They've reported four replicas to your presentation. Well, let's get it straight. The first is for the replica, the respected representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5409	Here's without the intention of pollomining because you've said some things that I don't think we're slow about here. You mentioned the Vukovar coffee, where it's more expensive. But you see how the debate is conducted in the Parliament? Where's the upstairs? This is the way a debate is being held in the Parliament where it is discussed in this country. Where's the upstairs? I ask you, and I believe I know the answer, very simply to this question of mine, do you agree with me that there are great margins in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5410	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5411	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernardich we quite agree, yes. But it seems that in this country, for a long time, it has been in place for someone, and someone else to do it as they say, the worse it is, just not for the citizens and the people, but for someone else. And as for coffee this morning, I drank it in Zagreb at Kennedy Square 7 kuna so much in Slavonski Brod on Korz the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5412	You should drink less coffee, it's healthier. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Sabo. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5413	Thank you, Vice President. Well, right on the trail of that coffee or Vukovar at the price of one coffee on Stradun, that's the price of a portion of paprikasha in Vukovar. So instead of calling or answering you don't go to Stradun, go wherever you want, but come to Vukovar for a stew, and it's not as expensive as it says about Vukovar, at least as far as the stew is concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5414	Thank you very much for calling. A reply to the replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5415	I've been drinking coffee, Mr. Sabo in Dubrovnik, and by chance, when we were driving a patient while I was in the Special Police Department at Cape Ostre, and I can tell you that there's a real price for that coffee as a paprikas or a portion of a hoove in Vukovar and Slavonski Brod. That's what he's saying. You and I are saying the same thing if someone wants to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5416	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's about examples of geodetic tariffs, it's about legal fees or tariffs like to say. It is terrible that in 1994, Croatia passed a single law in Europe, which authorised a Croatian bar of law to determine the prices of its services and give it even the legal power. And so we have a situation that today these geodetic fees are nothing compared to what we experience in the fees of lawyers, individual elected law offices in the Republic of Croatia who even get and represent state-owned companies, from HAC, Croatian Railways, HEP, etc., who charged half an hour of debate at 175 thousand kuna, and then made sure that such half-hour hearings were not one but that they were very much. And many of the tycoons in Croatia today are just rainworms for selected law offices in the Republic of Croatia, which are speechless and no one talks about them when we talk about it. And I'd just like to say in the end, and Mr Bernardić said nicely, unfortunately in the Croatian Parliament we're talking about where it's harder to live and you mentioned what we're talking about. But I ask another question, why from the new Government of the Republic of Croatia whenever we discuss very important issues there are no representatives of the Government directly. When we passed the budget there were no prime ministers, when we had the Social Care Act, there was no Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Young Mrs. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5418	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5419	Today it is announced on behalf of the government, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Radimir Cacic, does not have it, where the representatives of the government are when we talk about such important things.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5420	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5421	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5422	Dear Representative Buric, you will now receive a reply from Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5423	My colleague Buric, I heard that the Deputy Prime Minister in Azerbaijan is on the Caspian lake, there's a good caviar there. Furthermore, these worms as you said from the HOK, they've made a big hop hop to that law on the bar, now they're not even rainworms anymore, but California, with Beverly Hills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5424	Thank you, Your Honor. The next replica is respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5425	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you said one incomplete piece of information, which is that commercial, which is why foreign banks robbed Croatian citizens. That's right. But they were robbed with the help of the Croatian National Bank, robbed with the help of Croatian governments, robbed by the parliamentary majority in this House. And when a colleague Bernardic also speaks of high margins, Mr Bernardic, you are now the government, change the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5426	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5427	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'm completely in favour, unfortunately in that thing that's the way it is. But I must point out the words of former parliamentary representative Mr. Maric of HDZ, who is highly directed, the master seems to me to be science or doctorate, Doctor, if I apologize to Mr. Maric, who said here once after this pay phone that he has won precisely these banks and others that have been drawn from Croatia in the last 8 years, that was 2 years ago, 222 billion kuna. 222 billion kuna, which is actually 30 billion euros or two Croatian budgets. And now two more years have passed since then, I believe that the profit derived from Croatia has been exhausted from Croatian citizens and Croatian companies, businesses, Croatian peoples about 300 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5428	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas and the answers to the replicas. Let's move on in an individual debate. The following has been reported for the debate by Honorable Representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Leko. Dear Mrs. Spevec, President of the Competition Protection Council. A few I would like to say more information on behalf of the HDZ club has already been said by counterpart Popijac. It seems to me that three aspects of your 2010 report are important, above all, to the new legislative framework. I think this is a key innovation in 2010 which has indeed fully aligned Croatian regulations with the EU acquis in the field of competition. We know that we started to adapt to the European competition protection system even before the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was concluded. In the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, this was Article 70, which in some way followed all our legislative efforts over the past 10 years, and the heart of the functioning of the EU internal market without any dilemma are Articles 101 and 102 on the functioning of the EU, and they were in some way also the Croatian Governments, but above all the Competition Protection Agency and as regulators, as well as in the capacity of the agency in charge of implementing competition rules. And in this respect, the transition from the criminal justice system within which the former law and the Agency had the right to initiate a request to initiate the infringement procedure has now turned into the possibility that the agency directly imposes administrative criminal measures, so the criminal measures are sui generalis in the Croatian legal system, and whose control was later allowed before the Administrative Court through the initiation of the administrative dispute are I would say the most important novelty of the 2010 law. Of course, those who are damaged by breach of the rules of the Competition Act may seek their satisfaction and compensation before a commercial court. What is also important, and this is that the Competition Protection Agency, given its resources, sees that there are only 49 plus formal 5 members of the Council, with a relatively modest budget for 2010, was just over 18 million kuna. And I am glad that in your activities you have managed to make use of all the opportunities provided by pre-accession EU funds, so through several programmes, you have succeeded if I have seen well enough to provide about 50 million kuna, so just over 7 million euros through various projects and that have contributed to the overall functioning of the agency. What is crucial in my court, given the limited number of experts and the legal and economic profession, is in some way the order of priorities of the Agency's work. So how do you manage to focus your work on three key areas. Therefore, establishing prohibited agreements between competitors, i.e. The cartels involved, establishing abuse of the ruling position and assessing the concentration permit. The Croatian market may not be great, but your efforts are working in the parallel process of preparing all economic operators to go to the European Union market. So your role has also been in some way pedagogical in recent years and has also had a special aspect and very important in the context of the recovery programme due to the economic crisis that has arisen in recent years. So I am glad that, in line with the 2010 plan, the agency has also introduced a new function of the Office of Chief Economists because although it is a relatively new branch of the right for Croatian conditions of competition in its core economic question, the question of the equal position of all market players is, in particular, entrepreneurs in relation to competitive pressures. I would also like to point out that the Agency has done a lot to sensitize the public not only in its existence but also in its right of competition, how all interested actors in Croatia can guide what they expect in the years ahead. And that is why I am glad that you have become part of the European Competition Network of the European Competition Agency, which gives you direct insight into the work of similar agencies in other countries with much longer experience in your work. I'd like to look back here on a specificity that wasn't mentioned today, and it concerns you personally, Mrs. Spevec. In fact, you were also the President of the Competition Council, but you were also a member of the negotiating team and you were in charge of Chapter 8 of the competition competition and your role was very important in meeting the criteria for opening this chapter as we know in 2010 but also for closing it in mid-2011. I think that this kind of symbiosis has helped our partners in the European Commission to really understand that the reforms we have undertaken in this process have indeed been maximumly engaged, that they have been credible and that they have guaranteed that we will also be in the period ahead of us, which is the period of control of our commitments under Chapter 8 to the end at the level of what we have negotiated and what remains in the Accession Treaty that the Croatian Parliament has ratified last week. I hope that in the years to come, the Agency will be able to continue with the education of its own staff, and will enable a wider circle of experts from both the legal and economic fields to join the work, as your activity will not become numb with Croatia's membership in the European Union. However, the implementation of the Competition Protection Act will go in parallel with the implementation of European Union law. As regards state aid, it will be transferred in a certain way to the institutions of the European Union, in particular to the European Commission, but only competition will give your Agency a new important role in assisting, exchanging information and helping those institutions of the European Union, which will pay particular attention to the cross-border aspect of competition protection. In that sense, I would like to support your report. I think that this very high-quality and comprehensively gave me key aspects of work in 2010 followed by the adoption of the new Statute of the Agency seems to me at the beginning of last year and I hope that the Agency whose evolution is well seen in the last few years will continue to work, so here and finally and number, I would say the funds in terms of criminal measures now over 2 million and 900000 kuna clearly show the intensity of your Agency's work. And I say, I am particularly pleased with your personal contribution to the process of completing Croatia's membership negotiations in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5430	Thank you, too. Your Honor, we have a single replica signed up for your presentation. This is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5431	Your Honor, I'm going to refer to the part where you said one thing that I think is important, which is that the Agency has played a pedagogical role in the past. That's right. However, the State did not play any role, i.e. an insufficient role in the protection of competition and in the implementation of those fundamental principles that competition implies, which is the competitiveness arising from the State aid structure. Look, our support grew only from 2010 to 2009 to 9.4 billion kuna. Supports are 2.8% of gross social products, i.e. per employee in 2010 are issued 6800 kuna. Only 3% of all these support expenditure goes into development, research and development, into innovation, into what should be done. And then and rightly, the question is, how can we be competitive? Which is the role of the state if the state hasn't fulfilled it in recent years. We hope this changes in the time ahead. And as for example, in the case of Bavaria, here is where our Minister Gordan Maras is staying today, with the German Vice-President. How to follow their example, one of Europe's most competitive provinces. So I think that's one of the key problems. The state has to invest that exactly I would say boost competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5432	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5433	Thank you, colleague Bernardic. Very short. I think that every institution, so it was as independent as the Agency and whose independence and impartiality we really need to cultivate, has its responsibility in explaining to all the entities in the Croatian public its activities and also the competent ministries when it comes to state aid. And as far as I see the Agency's State Support Report next item on the agenda, we'll have a chance to discuss it a little later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5434	Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the list of representatives registered for the debate 10 minutes after the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. President of the Competition Protection Council, final address. Here's your esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's not take any longer. I think the competition is a little bit enough for everyone. But I would like to thank all the representatives and advocates who participated today in this debate and who have actually shown how complex this is and how much the policy of protecting competition is, in fact, a complementary branch of what the Agency is doing. It's the Agency's job to enforce exclusively the laws relating to this area. However, only obtaining conditions for fair competition is a much bigger and wider problem than these two laws. So on the one hand, he complains that we're being too restrictive, that we're being strict, so today the debate started, on the other hand, that we're being gentle, or soft. On the one hand, to advocate liberalism, and on the other hand, that we are too liberal, that we are too strict and not liberal enough. So, it's not simple, I thank each other and I think that a large part of the problems we've been talking about today is the issue of regulation of markets and legislation in activities that are still closed to competition and where the state still plays a decisive role. I would, above all, also talk about the communal economy, but I would also mention the problems mentioned where the agency started the proceedings but had to suspend them when it came to the prices of geodesy services, architects, designers and all others because it turned out that the law, or that the laws of this matter were resolved and that the agency could not or should not act. The same is true when we talk about lawyers and their tariffs where the agency raised the issue back in 2004 and 2005, but it was resolved by special legislation. So today's debate has shown that the problem of protecting competition is far wider than the authority and competence of this agency, that there is also the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government and the bodies of local self-government and that we will have a competitive economy and satisfied consumers and an increased standard of citizens if we all work in the same way. So, creating an environment that will encourage entrepreneurship, but also protect consumers. Here, so much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have exhausted the total list of respondents to the debate on this subject. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5437	We move to the 2010 Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Economic Committee as the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2010 is hereby adopted. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of the vote 100 votes in favour, 8 against and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5438	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - The Annual State Aid Report 2010 of the Competition Protection Agency submitted this report in accordance with the provisions of Article 20(1). State aid laws. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Parliamentary Committee on Economy. You also received that report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? President-in-Office of the Competition Protection Council, Ms Olgica Spevec. Here's your esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5439	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, the Annual State Support Report 2010 is in front of you. It contains a list, i.e. an analytical representation of the support granted in that year, but also in the previous two years, meaning 2009 and 2008. The report was prepared on the basis of the information provided by the support providers. So, all those who run the state support policy and grant support, which is state bodies, funds, agencies, units of regional and local self-government and the like. The Agency has systematised and processed all these data so that data on the total aid granted and the comparison of these data with macroeconomic indicators are presented in detail on each individual category of support, support instruments and provides a comparative demonstration of support in Croatia to those in the EU, or in EU Member States. We also gave an assessment of the state aid movement in 2011. When we talk about support, therefore in 2010, a total of 9.4 billion kuna aid was granted, which is about 8% more than in 2009. But at the same time, about 2% less than in 2008. The share of support in GDP is 2.8%, in total expenditure of the country is 7.8%. The indicator of the increase in the aid trend is also the fact that, according to the employed state support in 2010, it amounted to nearly 6800 kuna, which is more or more than 13% more than in 2009. And by 27.3% more than the average net salary of that year. Supports per capita were also increased in 2010 and amounted to slightly more than 2100 kuna. The analysis of the support under the basic categories shows that in 2010 support to industry and services amounted to €5.4 billion, i.e. that they accounted for 57.3% of the total aid granted while support for agriculture and fisheries amounted to €4 billion and 42.7% of the total aid granted. A more detailed analysis of the level and structure of support to the industry and services sector shows that support for certain industrial or service activities amounted to 4.1 billion kunas, most of which relate to transport, shipbuilding and HRT while for horizontal objectives, i.e. support for a larger number of economies and regional development support, and support for units of local and regional self-government was allocated to 1.2 billion kuna. So, if we're talking about a ratio in relative relations, so for sectoral support, we've allocated 77% of the funds, and for horizontal 23%. The comparisons in the EU are completely different. So, there about 85% of the support goes in favour of horizontal objectives, mostly for environmental protection, energy efficiency, regional development, research and development, and only 15% of the support is for individual sectors. If we were to bring horizontal support for horizontal objectives to those fundamental targets then we would come to the data even worse for us, which is that all in 2010 the support for horizontal objectives was allocated to 636.4 million kuna and that it was about 12% of the support to industry and services sectors. As we know, I have to do it again, and I always talk about why I'm talking about the lack of horizontal support, because horizontal support is the support that helps entrepreneurs face so-called. Market failures and externalities, therefore, are difficult to deal with even the most successful entrepreneurs. So this is about the need to help entrepreneurs who are good to be even better when it comes to adapting to high standards of environmental protection, increasing energy efficiency, investing in research, development and innovation, improving, in particular, support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, for years or years, Croatia has never led an industrial policy that would, among other things, support the mentioned objectives, our industrial policy has always been used to help those who are in difficulty to prevent their exit from the market but has never been directed towards those who are even better, who are competitive and globally competitive. However, the problem is that in 2010, these support is intended for these goals even less than in previous years. Support for horizontal objectives in 2010 has been allocated 20 million kunas less than in 2009 and 30 million kunas less than in 2008. Only examples of work in EU Member States were allocated around 12 billion euros or around 24% of the total aid allocated to support the environment and energy efficiency in 2010. Nine billion euros or 17.4% were allocated for research and innovation development. For regional support, also around 12 billion euros or around 24% of the total aid granted. Now imagine in such a situation where support is most granted in Germany and France that our entrepreneurs we like to be proud of Ericsson, Concar, etc. can compete with Siemens and similar. Very difficult. Regional development support is also lower than previous years in 2010 and amounted to just over 300 million kuna. Their goal, the aim of these regional support is precisely the one we need, which is to boost investment and employment in areas lagging behind the EU average and there are very generous support regulations, allowing up to 70% of the eligible investment costs in these areas, i.e. new investments and new employment. As before, this State aid report, irrespective of its support for agriculture for which this Agency is not competent, points to a still prevailing predominantly sectoral share of aid. Most of the support to industry and services relates to support for businesses of public service providers, so the services we all need are railways, maritime and air transport, public television broadcasting and then there are, of course, more shipbuilding, tourism and those entrepreneurs who thank their survival for the loans of Audi and the like. It is irrevocable that the abolition or reduction of support for the mentioned sectors and transport and railways, in fact without serious and deep restructuring, would put these activities at risk. That's why we don't stand for it. In the current conditions, the reduced potential of the state budget and the pessimistic forecast of economic growth, we cannot expect more significant growth of support for horizontal objectives, but our opinion is that compared to the restructuring processes in the sectors mentioned, where state resources would be used more effectively, or where it would be used rationally, the rest of the funds from the state budget of the units of local self-government should focus on the objectives I was talking about, so concentrate more on these funds for support for horizontal objectives and reduce the number of support providers and pay increased attention to monitoring the effects of the aid allocated. So it's not enough to give someone support we need to know what and what that support was spent on. Therefore, the objective of the support policy should be to ensure that, with as little taxpayers' resources as possible, budgetary resources and as little negative effects on competition as possible, as effective aid to the Croatian economy in order to make it more successful and more competitive in the global environment, in particular in the preparations for European Union membership. In other words, in designing a support policy, important reforms need to be launched in order to bring about in practice an approach that promotes as little and as high-quality targeted support as possible. This is also a fundamental feature of the EU's state aid policy, which will soon become part of our country's national policy as of 1 July 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5440	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Do committee rapporteurs, working bodies want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. Does the government's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We're going through a debate by clubs, the first to discuss it was registered by the respected representative Damir Cain. Here's an esteemed representative on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5441	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Spevec, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. On the 8th and 9th pages of the Agency's director, Ms. Spevec, it is literally said that the state support in the Republic of Croatia in 2010 amounted to 9.4 billion kuna, which was 8% growth compared to 2009 in the support structure is further dominated by sectoral support of 44.2%, or 4.1 billion kuna of total aid received, state support for agriculture, fisheries amounted to 4 billion kuna, which is 42.7%, horizontal support in the total support structure accounted for 13.1%), i.e. in these objectives is invested 1.2 billion kuna, and that I am not counting as long as the funds allocated for sectoral support amounted to 4.1 billion kuna, in 2010, the highest amount for the transport sector 1.5 billion kuna, on the Croatian railways 850 million kuna, Croatia airlines 280 million kuna, Jadrolinija over 300 million kuna, further for the shipbuilding was allocated to 1,2 billion euros, and 180 billion euros for airing HRT. So this is how I sum up in 2010 for support is 9.4 billion kuna, each support employee stands out 6 thousand 800 kuna, each inhabitant of the Republic of Croatia counting and these children upstairs at the gallery is singled out for support of 2 thousand 132 kuna. And that is why citizens, or should therefore be very interested in support, or what is happening with these aids. I said, each employee of a million and 500 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia for support stands out 6 thousand 800 kuna, and each resident includes these children of 2 thousand 132 kuna. Let's get going with these milkmen somehow. In progress means these dairy protests 20 days ago, 30 days ago the impression that we are milkers are these or farmers who receive support, but do not receive support from others. True, farmers, fishermen receive 4 billion kuna support. I said just before the Croatian railway 850 million kuna, Croatia airports 280 million kuna, Jadrolinija 300 million kuna, shipbuilding 10 to 11 thousand people who are working directly in that branch a billion thousand kuna and HRT a billion 180 million kuna. Industry and transport support and shipbuilding amounted to 2010. 3 billion 850 million kuna. In this amount of subsidies are involved with two billion kunas, more specifically with a billion 997 million kuna, guarantees a billion 392 million kuna, tax exemptions are 411 million kunas, etc. So it's not that the support in this country as it gets the impression they have or only get farmers. True God is there to support the largest but support in agriculture as well as shipbuilding or in this electronic industry Simens etc. Just before was mentioned, paying off means one Belgium pays out, France pays out, Italy pays out, Austria in one word without support in those countries there would be no agriculture and shipbuilding. And it is fortunate that Croatia did not pay support to the banking sector, unlike the EU in 2010, in 2011 after 2000. Normally, when we talk about the support of the banking sector, we call it the rule of bank recovery, for which Croatia has allocated a whole set of billions of dollars by 2000. Neither politics nor CNB nor bankers have yet to agree on how many billions of dollars for the recovery of the banking sector are citizens or the average citizen of the Republic of Croatia allocated by 2000, 2001. We're all here 20 or 30 days ago I don't know when it was exactly what it meant to be following the protests of the milkman. I agree that among them were those who abused the support. I agree that there was a lot of politics between them. Although again, on the other hand, I honestly think that 80% of the milkers only wanted to say to protect us on the one hand from Dukat, Lactalis, on the other hand from Konzum. One word from that one cartel where we talked in the wheel before the one that wants to cut our milk from 2.71 to 2.30 and how much later there were 43 kunas. So the problem is there, so there's this Dukat, Lactalis, consummation that I'm going to say joined into one triangle into one cartel and their higher costs at this point trying to clearly, logically, understandably transfer to those who are weakest, and that's precisely those milkers. And what's going on here? As a rule, the monopolies are getting stronger, the peasants whose country needs to stress much help and help are getting weaker, and I'm afraid the collapse of their dairy farms will continue. According to that logic, in 2003, we had as many as 57,000 farms, now we have about 15. So 42,000 farms are gone, and the problem will be potentiated in the periods ahead, especially after 1.7.2013 and full-fledged Croatian membership in the EU. A little peasant driving his tractor. They drive tractors licking houses, business banks. It's all on their drum. If there'd been politics at those gatherings 20 days ago, it was. That there are those who encourage absolute abuse and that's what happened. That we have generals who use 100, 200 hectares and hire thirds to get incentives on agricultural land and we have that, that there were also former representatives in this minister relationship, etc. And that's what we have and that's right. But without support, the village would be clearly destroyed, and the more accurate agriculture in Croatia in our GDP still participates with 20% so this GDP in Slavonia is certainly over 40%. In some Slavic municipalities, agriculture in their GDP participates not with 80 but with 100%. In Istria that case is somewhere 3 or 4% but in our "memory" agriculture participates because we are all in the first or second generation from the village very much. For support to grow before elections, it is seen in this table. 8 per page The 25th and so in 2006 we had here when I was talking about agriculture, 2.5 billion kuna. In 2007, it's already rising by a billion kuna to 3.5 billion kuna. In 2009, it remained on the 3.6 billion kuna, 2010 preparations for 2011 already came to 4 billion kuna. What are agricultural incentives, you can see well on the page. 24.25 and here is said to support 3.6 billion kuna, support for non-agricultural production and market interventions of 2.9 billion kuna, investment support in agriculture amounting to €321.9 million, support for non-agricultural farmers of €161 million, market intervention of €118 million, protected breeds of €24.8 million, rural development of €18.2 million, adaptation of the fishing fleet of €14.9 million, maintenance of ecosystems 13.6 million, and not to count further, IPARD, manifestations even, fairs 2.7 million, agricultural research of only €1.9 million, and projects of a common interest of 1 million kuna. Through tax relief for consumption so-called. The blue diesel has also been granted an incentive of €382.1 million, and according to the Ministry of Finance, I quote: €28.6 million has been activated by state guarantees to entrepreneurs from the activities of agriculture and fisheries, and that amount refers to 24.1 million of activated IPK guarantees to Osijek and € 4.5 million of activated guarantees for Vrpolje dryer, etc. It is clear that without support it is not working, the problem for me is that perhaps when we talk about these agricultural support fishermen are being neglected. I agree, some and some will start milking, see fishermen as entrepreneurs, which is not far from the truth, and then they say that the principle of "market gives, market takes". And that would be so that Croatia did not allow monopolies and that the village I dare say is not totally devastated by what that post-war policy means by nationalisation after '45, collectiveisation in Istria, exudus, unimaginable ransom policy, etc. Tomorrow, when we open ourselves to the European Union, I fear that when it comes to the village, and that is why it is necessary to keep that support before it can be harder than it will be better for this small producer. Exactly where they are in those 9.4 billion kunas, someone will say, for example. Little merchants where they're craftsmen. I just saw television outside at 12 a.m., they say in Varazdin, and the same situation is in Pula, Istria, anywhere else in Croatia, every day in every major city closes a small craftsman, one craftsman, etc. So where are the 9.4 billion kunas small merchants, craftsmen, where is the small wood industry, where is the textile industry, etc. Who remembers them? Who supports them in this country? I'm afraid I can say no one. And Croatia, once again and this morning I talked about it, does not carry the big sector, is carried by this small sector. This small sector is not asking for anything, and the most full of the state budget. The consum or what is called Agrokor, however, totaled 153 million kuna support in 2011. Only for Belje they got 100 million kunas. I say clearly, as well as others, I absolutely agree with that. But what about those little textiles, wood growers, small shops, craftsmen, etc. On page 27, we're talking about support for the industry. That's where the 2008 figures move. 5.9 billion kuna, 2009. Five billion kuna, 2010. 5.3 billion kuna. Employment support, and we have lost 140 thousand jobs from 2009 to this day, is constantly dropping. 2008 136 million kuna, 2009. 42.6 million kuna, 2010. 93 million kuna. Shipbuilding 2008 billion 892 million kuna, 2009 billion 152 million kuna, 2010 billion 244 million kuna. An activated protested guarantees for the period 2008-2010. 3.May, 52, Queen 188 million kuna, Brodosplit a billion 234 million kuna, Brodotrogir 449 million kuna, thank God Oil 0 Kuna. Clearly, without support, there is clearly no abuse here, but on the other hand, we have this state-owned repressive apparatus, so let the state just make sure it's not in the area of irregularities. Because once again I will say, almost 7,000 kunas for support is set aside by each employee, over 2000 and so many kunas each citizen of the Republic of Croatia. What I think is a problem with support is that some people know how to use them very well, and far more entrepreneurs, small craftsmen, craftsmen, etc. He doesn't know how to use your support. Some actually don't even know today that they exist, some can't believe they can get something from the state, so they don't ask, but that's why this assignment should be as transparent as possible. To end, an extremely useful report, to see what is actually in that part almost, 8% of the Republic of Croatia's budget is happening, however what is the real practice even for this will take some more time but I said, an extremely useful report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5442	Thank you very much. A correction of an incorrect quote has been reported to your presentation. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic will tell us what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Cain, you have apostrophe, stressed that support for agriculture of 4 billion kunas is the greatest support. But you forgot to say, I'm correcting that quote, because when you look at how much support there is in agriculture. So you have 190 thousand OPGs, family farms, then you see that all those others who have received support, and they total 9 billion and 400 million kunas, so the number of employees and the number of those who live on the salaries of those employees in relation to the number of those who live on agriculture is, so I'm correcting you that this is actually an incorrect quote. The second quote that you said, which is 153 million kunas that one of the let's say agricultural tycoons pulled, you mentioned the Consum or Agrokor yourself. That amount of 153 million kuna is not correct, it is much larger. You know there are even support for importing some agricultural products.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5444	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5445	On the basis of these support for importing this amount of 153 million kuna is much, much larger.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5446	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the respected representative Mladen Novak will have the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5447	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Director and fellow MPs. As already said in the total amount for agriculture is probably the most given, i.e. not likely but the fact is that the total amount is probably the largest here. However, what I do when it comes to agriculture, and I stress that I am not familiar with the agriculture or fisheries that is together with it in this sector is small rural land. I come from Sisak and the part that gravitates there is Pokuplje, Moslavina, Banovina is crawling with these small, tiny landlands where people are mostly older, powerless, have no large possessions, have no ability to deal with any large production of agricultural products and are therefore in this part let's say cut off. They're cut off most by the fact that the state didn't even bring in the strategy that it wanted from that part of the village. That part of the village is dying for us. We will have vast spaces that will be abandoned, healed, and no one alive will show interest in it. On the other hand, we'll have social cases on that part. These are people you can't requalify, you can't send them to some extra schooling. We simply need to find a complete solution. Whether the state, or executive power, will have any vision on this matter. If there is, might it be a modality for this country to be taken away from these people, to pay them, for example, the average pension in Croatia, and that they must prescribe their property, i.e. their property, agricultural estates and machinery to the state. Whether it's one of the solutions or not, I don't know. I repeat, I am not an expert in the village and agriculture, but I believe that a complete solution would have to be offered by the executive authority. The second part that stuck my eye while I was reading this report is one of the sectoral support that amounts to over 280 million kunas to Croatia's airline. I believe I'm not the only one here who got a letter from the company's employees. According to some allegations, it was also received by the prime minister, but it went to some other addresses. This company has not opened a tender for the purchase of uniforms, but has been contracting this service directly for ten years. The letter then states that drastic austerity measures are being implemented in the company, so to speak, it takes less fuel and ice water, but it does not give up on the purchase of paprinjaki, and the purchase of new vessels in the business class, although passengers do not have too many tickets to compete with. Generally speaking, it points to a huge supply problem in this company. It even goes to this point, to the extent that, among other things, the SAP programme goes to adapt to the needs of their procurement. So when it was introduced, there was no need, or probably no way to eskicipate it. Also, the company's workers have warned only 57 times that the INA has invoiced and charged far more fuel than is really loaded into planes. Now, my question is whether anyone is involved in the business of such companies when deciding on State aid, but not in terms of success, but legality. Because if someone who gets state support and this way we can say it freely, I think we should also take care of the legality of such a business. The third part of the story, I am extremely glad that you and you mentioned the Croatian railways earlier. Croatian railways amounting to about 850 million kuna or about 55% of sectoral support. And related to this opinion of the Government that we received in the package that says that the level of support for the railways is very high, that in the last 7 years the company has not brought into a state of financial stability but as much as remains in a very bad state, so it is said that through the form of support that should have the primary objective of strengthening the infrastructure and being a support for the restructuring of the company is mentioned here some of our advantages in terms of the position of Croatia and such things. But frankly, this is just manipulation. This is definitely conscious manipulation and I must admit that, since I read that plan is famous 21 so that I have read the government programme in which the railway is potentified as something that will be the engine of the Croatian economy. We're getting into a situation where the railroad here is mentioned in an extremely negative context. It turns out the way Mr. Lucin said on the board that malts don't only know how to come for wages when it's time to pay. But I definitely do, since I am from that system, I definitely can't agree with that. It's a fact of fact, I don't blame you. It's a general perception unfortunately in public. The fact is that since the 1980s definitely and it systematically does not invest in railways at all, it is not invested in the sense of saving is not a rolling stock, there are no track repairs, the entire system of Croatian railways is not being maintained at all, and all of this under let's say under some label we need to save, we have to save. Last week, we had a debate where one famous BMW was mentioned among other things, which, fortunately, was returned, did not experience this fate. But imagine if you buy a BMW, Mercedes, it doesn't matter that you don't invest in it, 30 years don't change its tires, 30 years don't change its oil. What can you expect in 30 years from that vehicle? Expecting he'll fill the state budget, be a business that works well? That's impossible. In the view of the Government, there is also at least one section of each sentence that mentions either restructuring or something related to restructuring. It turns out that only because of the unrestructured or not implemented restructuring of the Croatian railways are at today's level that we can automatically characterize as catastrophic. Do any of you here think that maybe the German railways or the French railways are at today's technological level because they're being restructured? A few days ago there were representatives of the German railways here in Zagreb, there was also a representative of the Ministry of Transport, I am sorry that he was not present, although he heard that part there, so he was not at his will, the German state is separating for German railways 300 euros per year per capita. Since they have 82 million, it comes out about 25 billion and something, over 25 billion euros annually. If we consider their gross national income, i.e. the ratio with our and our 4.5 million inhabitants, we should invest 540 million euros or 4 billion kuna on an annual basis. But I stress that German railways do now that they have arranged railways, when they have new trains, when they have arranged infrastructure. And we have 30 years of indemnity and now we're trying to cover it with a drop last year of 800 million, 850 million, this year much less. I'll tell you one truly true event. German came, sorry may not even be German, but mostly a foreign delegation tasked with carrying out a restructuring project for Croatian railways. Since people felt that they could make a quality restructuring project so that it would be necessary to tour the terrain, record the situation on the ground, take a little ride on Croatian trains as well. They sat on one of our trains, the journey started and their comment was this is something beautiful. The country that just left the war has made so much effort to build a historic tourist train. They weren't even aware that it was our only means available that we didn't have the other one and that it had nothing to do with both historical and touristic, it's our only option. And on trains like that, they're driving today and your kids. Well, you as Parliamentarians may not be your children, but our children are driving. They're driving where there's still railroads because some of you are coming from the area where the railroads were cut in the meantime. As for this investment of the German, or parity of the investment of the German state in the German railways and Croatian states in the Croatian railways, we can make another parallel and let's say how much this is per kilometre of the railroad. You mean, here's a colleague or an air-conditioned head to make it more right. Just to cheer you up, but under quotes, the Croatian government is just working to be equal here, that is, to reach this superior Germany. We cut the tracks, cut the miles, and thus raise the amount of investment per kilometre of the railroad. I don't know if any of you are interested in the fact that one of the electric sets produced by Gredelj and Končar, or whether or not they're putting together more or less of their parts inside, would be given about it, but we're still hiring our economy, costing 5 billion euros. 800 trains are launched daily in Croatia, some over 800 trains carrying passengers. What do we run them with? With even 40-year-olds on average. And you're probably aware of what security is, even if you take into account that the maintenance of the maltene has completely fallen off, and then we're inventing hot water, we're a unique railroad in Europe, so I'm going to warn you that we're artificially to extend the age of technical inspection of the wagons we've crashed speed from 160 to 120, relabelling the wagons because we can therefore extend their distance to a new technical inspection of the wagon for half a year. With this reduction of the funds made by the Croatian government, we will suspend 300 and some trains per day for the transport of passengers. In freight, we currently have over 200 loaded wagons on a river rail waiting for locomotives, which will come through restructuring. By restructureing itself as soon as we do it, the locomotives will come in their own way. At the same time, we have to pay the losses to foreign rail administrations for these wagons. We also have to pay for the boat's deck for five ships waiting to be unloaded in Luci Bakar until the lazy railways ship those cars on their own backs, I don't know how else possible. I fear from this another possible consequence, that there is one illusion that this year we will sell the Croatian postal bank and Croatia insurance, and next year we should probably sell HZ... First, because of the law, or because of the EU regulation, no one needs it, no one, because they rent the route they must get under the same conditions that we do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't see any point in buying it, which is why they would invest in something they weren't interested in. They're only interested in transit through the Republic of Croatia. That transport that we need, for our economy, is certainly not interesting to them. The transport of orphans, stone and orphans until I don't know Lekenik where the highway is built where you can and can drive only 4 cars a day is certainly not interesting to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5448	Thank you, too, Reverend Novak. At your presentation, we have a request to correct the incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5449	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I can't give you a replica since you're talking about the club, but I have to say that you started talking about investing in a kilometer of railroad in Germany and investing in a kilometer of railroad in Croatia and you stopped there because you didn't compare it. So here you thought it was a more favourable relationship, so I have to say that it will be, I am correcting it, even more favourable in Croatia given the suspension of the railways that are under way and which will follow. This is where you listed the railway Sirač, from Sirač to the south, and you also did not specify the Pleternica-Ours track which was also abolished and seems to be never going to work again. I wanted to say that, and add to this correction that once it seems to me, Chancellor Bismark told me that the state is as strong as its railway and Germany is holding it and 100 years after Bismark and you have no villages or cities in Germany that are not connected to the railway line. Unfortunately, with us and the road lobby and all the governments in action have acted precisely on the destruction of the Croatian railways. But here I can't get into a replica when I'm not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5450	Thank you very much. We are going forward with the presentation of representatives of the Clubs, the next in line was Djuro Popijac, a respected representative on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5451	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Spevec. Therefore, indicators from the 2010 annual State aid report suggest that in 2010, there was an expected rise in state aid of around 8% in the previous year and amounted to around 9.5 billion kuna. The share in the gross social product is measured at an increase of 2.6% in 2009 to 2 and 8% in 2010. One of the features of the aid movement between 2003 and 2010 is the continued growth of support for agriculture and fisheries, whose share in the total aid granted reached 42.7% while the share of support for all other economic sectors, hence the industry and services account for 57.3% of the total aid granted. Therefore, the fact that the care of the Croatian state during that period was extremely focused precisely on the development of the agricultural sector and fisheries and that it was permanent and unquestionable. In view of the fact that in the previous few years, state aid providers are still deciding, although limited resources continue to encourage growth and development of activities such as tourism, small shipbuilding, wood, metal, chemical, textile and other industries, to establish a system of monitoring the impact of the results of these programmes, i.e. the support allocated to them to be constantly promoted and complemented by new programmes. The implementation of the State aid system as part of the protection against competition is important in order to ensure a level playing field on the market for all entrepreneurs and as an important factor in increasing the competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs as well as attracting and encouraging domestic and foreign investors in the Republic of Croatia. Effective control of state aid and a prerequisite for creating a competitive macroeconomic and regulatory environment that promotes economic growth, new investment, employment growth and overall social well-being. According to data, the analytical review of state aid granted in the Republic of Croatia in 2010, agricultural and fishing aids were allocated to around 4 billion kuna, representing an increase of 9% compared to 2009 when they amounted to 3.6 billion kuna. And they were awarded mostly through subsidies. In the longer term, a steady growth in the share of support for agriculture and fisheries in the total aid granted was seen. Industry and services were granted support of €5.3 billion, which is about 7% more than in 2009 when it was around 5 billion. In the horizontal support structure, almost 27% refers to support for small and medium-sized enterprises, followed by support for 26% research and innovation development, 14% employment support, support to support access to funding 12%, which was extremely important precisely for 2010. Support for culture 8%, to perfect 7%. It should certainly be noted here that it is this segment of support for small and medium-sized enterprises that is what is preferred and suggested as one of the measures of horizontal support that are fully and in line with the way, criteria, procedures, rules that apply to the countries of the European Union, which should continue to experience significant growth. Unfortunately, we also see in the budget this year that even only the Ministry of craft and small entrepreneurship has even reduced its budget so unfortunately this year we can expect a reduction of horizontal support in this segment exactly the opposite of what this report suggests. Thus, regional support in 2010 amounted to 309 million kuna, unfortunately it was reduced by 3% compared to 2009 support at unit level of local and regional self-government amounted to 283 million, which is 30% more than it was in 2009 which, of course, is exactly the direction in which it should go further. Sectoral support to individual industrial and service sectors amounted to 4 billion and 100 million kuna, which is 8% more than for 2009 and this is exactly the biggest problem in the support system in Croatia, because although they are called industrial support, they are mainly due to support for companies in difficulty. So various subsidies primarily rail, maritime, air transport and shipbuilding support, whether by direct transfers, although they were extremely few in 2010, seem to me about 100 million kuna compared to the previous year, and this is part of those problems that were mentioned in previous discussions, according to the previous point. Small-value support in 2010 amounted to 598 million kuna, which is also less than in 2009. In the European Union, Member States have singled out around 0.6% of GDP for support, namely 73.7 billion euros without rail transport, which is extremely important for us to understand and understand that the European Union itself is generously helping certain economic sectors but we have seen it through horizontal support. What was significant in 2010 was the European Union's financial sector's disbursement, over a thousand billion euros, which in some ways deprives and some here today's debates that were negatively related to the financial sector because it is evident that the EU has been trying to curb the crisis and combating economic collapse is just strengthening the financial sector. State support in the EU is part of the economic and industrial policies of the Member States that promote the competitiveness of their economy or by granting support to the financial sector to contribute to financial and economic stability during the crisis, preventing such severe consequences that the collapse of the financial sector would have for the economy and citizens of the Member States. The annual State aid report for 2010 is an objective review of the state aid situation offered by a number of useful data that will be of great benefit to support providers in the design of a future state aid policy that must be in the function of economic recovery and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. And there is, of course, an exceptional quality, and this report itself, because indeed everyone who also participates in support regardless of whether the user is also supporting what the future needs to refer to the sector or the private economy where and the support expected by the Croatian economy in the EU should or will actually have to follow exactly the rules that have already been implemented in the support system, especially these horizontal support for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore indeed for the recommendation that anyone who participates in the support system, regardless of the receiving party or the provider, read these documents well because he is one of a kind... in which way and how and how support should be thought and, ultimately, how to prepare and prepare for what awaits us in the Structural Funds after Croatia's accession to the EU. This is why the HDZ Club will certainly support this annual report and once again commend the Competition Agency for a comprehensive, high-quality and professional approach and state aid, but also of course to the overall activities arising from the role and place of AZTN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5452	Thank you, too. Next for discussion on behalf of the Croatian SDP club in the Croatian Parliament Davor Bernardić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5453	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable and distinguished representatives, dear guests I see here today. At first I have to say something that should be in the future. Therefore, the support must definitely not be a political transfer or a fig leaf for market failure as they are today. The way they are made available today in Croatia is for them to draw food for a healthy organism. And that's true, it's an inconclusive fact and it just can't be hidden. In this too, this report is a de facto review of this objective state and a solid reference to the structure and way of allocating these state resources. But when it comes to allocating state resources, then it should actually be pointed out that through this allocation one country's policy, one government's policy, and that this alocation, or fiscal policy, is at present a major problem, especially over decades of neglect, the problem of the Croatian state and the structure of the Croatian economy. And as we said earlier in the debate that this agency had a pedagogical role that was true, and the state on the other hand had no role. And this must change in Croatia, rapidly or gradually in Croatia, I'm not sure that these things can go suddenly, but without that systematic change, it will definitely not be possible for me to say to be sustainable. And sustainability means that we can finance our own obligations, our functions and that we can live adequately from these functions. How's that on paper? That's exactly what I said. So an allocation of state resources. So in 2010, this support amounted to 9.4 billion kuna, which is 8% growth in 2009. So instead of reducing that trend, we're de facto increasing it, and that's how we deepen a certain gap. And if it's taken in combination with the budget, it's 7.8% budget expenditure. So 7.8% of budget expenditure is covered by state aid, which means that every employee in this country has given 6 thousand 800 kuna to support mainly market failure. The population of every resident translated into language gave 2 thousand 132 kuna. And now we come up with a key document which Europe has drawn as one that will ensure the progressive growth but also what is most important competitiveness in the European economy compared to US and Japanese. Because it is known that America and Japan are definitely countries with the greatest innovation potential but precisely because investment in research and development in these countries is far greater than in Europe. And then there was one whole Europe 20-20 strategy that de facto put it as a goal just so that Europe could cope with competitiveness in this competition game. It's just like that. And it is precisely that through a system of support that attaches to this one strategy as an inevitable part could increase directly in investment in research and development. And then we come up with shocking, essentially real but such data for Croatia in which we de facto single out for infrastructure, transport infrastructure, HZ 850 million, Croatia airports 280 million, Jadrolinija 300 million, over billions and for shipbuilding and HRT, and we come up with the percentage of support for research and development in Europe, and in Croatia only 3%. We're six times worse than the European average. That's a fact. If we had to analyze this report and say what the main message of the report is, we have to say that we are six times worse than the European average, that society of the countries where we want to be. And that's how it goes. If you eat everything for lunch, you have nothing to eat for dinner, especially if you wake up hungry the next day, then you have nothing to eat for breakfast. And without energy, you can't go forward. And so I would say when it comes to this report on state aid, that kind of review of structural Croatian problems. That's what he'd call it. Review of structural Croatian problems. Take, for example. Shipbuilding, a shipbuilding that has been regularly touched, which has not been restructured, where many have promised but realistically nothing has been done and we have to admit it, including the Croatian Railways. For 20 years we lost, the football dictionary said we lost all of our time, we can view it as halftime, we can view it as a certain second minute, and what we have to do is we have to consolidate and with track optimism because there are no reasons for over-optimism, but the tape of optimism has to exist is to play the next more successful part of the game and try this structural problem that is visible so clearly through state support, at least in part to reverse it. Only the rate of risk of activation of state guarantees has been affected by the shipbuilding enormously. Here, for example. The 2009 data, meaning if we have a risk rate for the activation of state guarantees without the shipbuilding sector, means that at a time when something happens and then the risk will be activated, in 2009, that rate was 8%, and if the shipbuilding is included, it goes up to 80.7%. Now there's that problem of Croatian history and culture because when a complex product like a ship is produced in Croatia since the ships are manufactured, since it's generally been produced in the world, if we shut it down, we'll never start that production again. And that is why we cannot shut it down because it is one of the most complex products in the world and one of the products that de facto and on some other grounds much more competitive can bring prosperity to this country in part. This and this report show that the good part is holding back. But examples of more developed European countries, examples of large producers and even with a more competitive labour market suggest that certain successes in shipbuilding are possible. And that's why it's one big challenge and a task for both the new government and all those who think and believe that this one segment that follows us through history is shipbuilding, it needs to be kept, it needs to survive and I should say encourage. And if we just take an example and I'm going slowly towards the end, if we had to construct NASA today by 20 or 30 years of interruption in that structure, it would be very difficult today, even for the United States. So once you lose knowledge of how, once you lose tradition, once you lose knowledge that you do certain products, it's hard to get it back. And that's another reason why this tradition, that knowledge when it comes to shipbuilding, can't be lost. What I can say is that the horizontal support that the EU sees them, especially when it comes to regional development, there have been discussions about the uneven development of Croatia, which is definitely true, about the difficult life in Slavonia and in many other parts of Croatia, it is difficult to live everywhere, but one result is only 6% of the funds invested in regional development by state support, while the percentage is four times higher in the EU. So, if we want to develop Croatia evenly, then we need to provide a lot more money for regional development, which means that it should be and start being an instrument for Croatian fiscal policy. Finally, perhaps picturesquely, support in a sports or medical jargon should be like an energy drink. In Croatia today, they are like respirators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5454	Thank you and distinguished representative Davor Bernardic and the SDP club. At the presentation of Davor Bernardic, we have one correction to the incorrect allegations. Stjepan Milinkovic, a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Bernardic made several incorrect allegations, and I noticed where he said the support was a fig leaf for market failure. Inaccurate colleague Bernardić, at least in that part, I will refer to the part that I know better, which is agriculture. The creation of competitive agriculture was and should remain a priority, and this part showed exceptional results, from increasing milk production to modern stops, etc. But I'm afraid that these moves you've made with taking the support of agriculture for a great...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5456	My friend, you've corrected the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5457	... Our village that will lead to the destruction of the village. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5458	Thank you very much. You've corrected the quote in part. Now we're gonna stop the debate, the lunch break, and the work of the working bodies. We will continue at 3:00 with the HDSSB club, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5459	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. Debate on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Drazen Đurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5460	Here's Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mrs. Spevec, the president of the Agency, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. This year's support report, the state aid for 2010 in our opinion is a much better report than the previous report, the Agency's annual reports, more accurate, more quality, with better defined and problems but also with certain said solutions, i.e. proposals for possible solutions and repairs of that situation, so that we will support the report that is written. Well, even the presidents of our agency suggest that those who wrote that report at the agency did a better job than in that previous report. But I mean, it seems like the same people didn't write it at the agency. Therefore, as regards the meaning of this State aid Act, State aid is therefore all of these real and potential expenditures, i.e. the reduced revenues of the State granted by the public support providers which distort or threaten to distort competition. State support, therefore, does not help households, disabled persons, public authorities, hospitals for socially vulnerable groups and the like. State support status also lacks support for small value, and support for deminimis amounts to more than 200000 euros per user over the three fiscal years, according to the predecessors. State support in the Republic of Croatia in 2010 amounted to 9.4 billion kuna, which is practically per capita that each of us paid us 4 million and 300,000, about 2 thousand 132 kuna. According to the instruments, 72.6% of these state aids were subsidies. 18.5% of the day state guarantees, and 8.5% tax exemptions, tax exemptions, contributions and similar reliefs. It's according to the instruments of the assignment. And according to the structure of the state support itself for agriculture and fisheries, 4 billion kuna. The second was sectoral support of 4.1 billion kuna and horizontal support of 1.2 billion kuna. With these sectoral aids of 4.1 billion kuna, the predecessors said the most as reported in the report was a billion-and-a-half kuna for the transport sector, which does not involve any investment but only state support for the business of these companies. 850 million kuna for Croatian railways, 300 million kuna for Jadrolinija and more than 280 million kuna for Croatia airlines. According to some data spinning in the media in the amount of state support for Croatia airlines last year amounted to nearly 400 million kuna. Therefore, last year, the growth of state support for Croatia's airlines continued, and reportedly the total debt of cumulative, debt and Croatia's airlines reached a billion kuna. A few days ago, we could also read an article in a short newspaper about how Croatia's airlines refused the service, provide a transport service for a Croatian tour operator from Scandinavia for some 20,000 passengers during the tourist season, and he eventually contracted that same service for the transport of Scandinavian tourists to Croatia with a Polish air carrier. So much for the efficiency of that Croatie. Also a subscription for HRT 1 comma 1 billion and 180 million kuna, which includes actually a RTV subscription. Now, the third group according to the structure is the horizontal support of 13.1%) and 1.2 billion respectively. These horizontal support includes state support for horizontal objectives, such as research, development, employment, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, environmental protection, improvement, culture and the like. This support has been spent on €636 million, 309 million in regional support, and on support from local and regional self-government units, €284 million. Overall, these horizontal support is visiblely stagnating, while sectoral growth is growing. As far as state guarantees are concerned, the total of state guarantees of 9 billion and 628 million kuna were issued with the growth of state guarantees with the support elements of 3 billion and 230 million kuna and 23.7% more than in 2009. It is important to mention that the risk, therefore, that the risk level of activation of state guarantees, is therefore likely not to return loans covered by guarantees including shipbuilding at 33.92%. So 34 by some calculations is 34 percent probability of not returning state guarantees. If this were to be crossed into some share, at least three to four billion more of the state guarantees issued, which are very likely to be returned, means guarantees on the burden of the state budget will be activated. Horizontal support, i.e. support for horizontal objectives, distorts competition less than sectoral support, as they are directed towards those objectives in which the market cannot produce adequate results. In the structure of these aids, the largest part relates to support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and according to instruments, subsidies are the most used. Regional support in 2010 amounted to 309,2 million kuna. They're shrinking from year to year. Their share is 5.6 or 8% in total support to the industry and services sector. ... 27 these regional support is of particular importance because they encourage investment and employment in less developed areas compared to the European Union's average development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This support is therefore totalled with aid for industry and services in the European Union with almost 25%. The largest part of this amount of 247 million kuna, 247 million kuna in regional aid, refers to tax relief. It is also interesting to mention these horizontal support granted through operational competitiveness maintenance programmes. For example, on the basis of the operational programme, support for maintaining the competitiveness of the textile industry, the leather industry and leather products in 2010 the Ministry of Economy granted subsidies, i.e. horizontal support to that entire segment of the Croatian economy of 14 million kuna. And that was now, so we have nine and a few billion kunas of total support, and one horizontal support measure throughout the sector through the Ministry of Economy's operational programme was only 14.3 million kuna. It was supposed to achieve long-term sustainability and encourage the launch of investment projects in the sector. The second operational programme for supporting the production of chemicals, the chemical industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the production of rubber and plastic products in total this horizontal support in this operational programme is 6.8 million kuna for an entire industrial branch. Also operational support programme for the manufacturing of electronic and optical devices, machinery, motor vehicles, trailers and similar 6.1 million kuna in 2010. Therefore, it is an extremely small almost negligible means that are systematically through horizontal support measures aimed at certain sectors. And on the other hand, billions went to those subsidies to some giants. As regards support at unit level, local and regional self-government was singled out in 2010. 284 million kuna, which is 65 million kuna more than in 2009, and for 105 million kuna than in 2008. Therefore, support at unit level for local and regional self-government has increased. In fact, the data shows that local and regional self-government units, despite their modest financial resources and a highly centralised state, where over 92% of total revenues end up in the central government's cash register, have tried to make a considerable effort to support their local economy mostly through tax relief. Small-value support – therefore they are support for one user below 200 000 euros for a period of 3 fiscal years regardless of the form and purpose of support. Their allocation does not require any approval from the agency, does not violate trade between the Republic of Croatia and EU members. The Agency does not monitor the conditions of their assignment, but keeps records of them. Small-value support amounted to practically 598 million kuna in 2010. The maximum amount observed according to the instruments with a share of 50% is the subsidy and 38.4% of the tax exemptions, respectively. The largest share, i.e. 85% of the amount of these aids, was allocated by support providers from the central state level, and only 91 million kuna donors at local level. What does that mean? In part, I'm going to quote the agency, and I'm going to share my opinion. This is a quote, "that huge budgets are allocated as a kind of grants to entrepreneurs who are not expected to have any effect, nor the results of horizontal support granted to meet certain objectives and are linked to the eligible costs of investment in those objectives", it is a quote. And now for a little free interpretation. Therefore, in the case of these support, there is no need for prior consent of the Agency, the rules on the granting of small value support allow for the granting of support without any invitation to tender, without predetermined criteria, and thus large appropriations are shared very often and quite non-transparently, as well as doubts about the allocation by various keys regardless of what kind. So as for the support of small value that amounted to as much as 600 million kunas, of course at the expense of taxpayers, and they were divided by more or less by the central state, I would say who was closer to the fire better and warmed up. As for comparisons with EU aids where this amount of support moves around 0.6% of GDP but without agriculture and without railways in the Republic of Croatia is therefore without agriculture and without railways around 1.2% of GDP. Which isn't so dramatic given the state of our budget and our society. As far as agriculture is concerned, this is where support is shared from European funds. In view of our accession contract, as agreed and agreed dynamics, we will not soon become users, if we know what dynamics is only over 10 years after accession we will be fully users of EU funds for agriculture and rural development. The structural problem is also these support which is visible that it is also a high and legitimate and fiscally centralised state that has actually led to a fairly uneven development of Croatian regions over the past 20 years. And of course, there are some regions and Slavonia has drawn the worst end. So once again, we stress the importance not only of territorial but also of fiscal decentralisation, which is also a prerequisite for both different structures and different state aid systems that should then be more focused in the first order towards horizontal and regional support, which is also a model of a socially fair and economically more successful EU model. In the government's indication of this report, the emphasis is very interesting. No one mentioned them, so it may be worth mentioning that the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers it necessary to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Finance in the system of state budget control, or these support. I am now quoting, "due to all of this, it seems that the system of imminent change is the government of the Republic of Croatia that points out the need to reduce the emphasis on the future role of the Competition Protection Agency and in the future state aid system." Do we actually have the government's final idea that this agency should either be abolished or doped or reduced? Will the adjudication of this agency or the reduction of its powers improve the system of State aid monitoring? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5461	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HNS club is representative Mr. Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam President of the Competition Protection Council, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's interesting that this 2010 report is actually being considered in March 2012 and it was sent to the Croatian Parliament on 23 January 2012, which despite some technical difficulties that are said in the report about its creation is absolutely unacceptable, so you give 9 billion kuna to someone and then you don't ask them how it is spent, it shows this uninterested government probably but also the Croatian Parliament if these reports can be considered with more than a year behind. It is said here that the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to report regularly to the European Commission or European authorities on 1 December of the current year is to publish a State aid report for the whole of the European Union, so if they can do so for the whole European Union in these very complicated mechanisms and bodies that decide on this, then it would be logical for us to consider, at the latest, the State aid report in the first half of the following year, so that those aspects of this report that can be used to create new policies for that year. Therefore, this relationship with this problem, this issue, is a major issue of economic life and the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely not something that could be tolerated. The most important thing in this report is the relationship between these support, the ratio of horizontal and sectoral support, especially its comparison with this same relationship in the European Union countries. So 23% of our support is horizontal support, so those aids that bring development and profit and 77% are sectoral support, support that encourages survival and actually make it impossible for them to take part of the value prevents specific development. While in the European Union this ratio of 23% of these support for development is there compared to the total support of 85%, therefore 4 times the share of development support compared to these fire support, such as in the Republic of Croatia, is almost greater. This is the date of the presentation of those aids for which the Competition Protection Agency is responsible, and not those for which it is not, which are support in agriculture, forestry, wood industry, therefore very important and problematic sectors. We only have basic information but we don't actually have a little more detailed representation from which we might conclude something more. However, in all of this, since the European Union is waiting for us, we are awaiting compliance with the rules of the European Union and in the support segment, it is interesting, apart from this basic comparison that I have cited, which is a comparison of the structure of horizontal and sectoral support, to put a little attention to some other information that speaks a little more about the quality or structure of these support, which are also devastating for the Republic of Croatia and our way of using support. The share of R & D in total support in the Republic of Croatia is 3%, in the European Union the average is 18%, so five times higher. The share for regional development in the Republic of Croatia is 6%, in the European Union 24%, again one incomparable data. For environmental protection 0.5% in the European Union, 23%, so 46 times as harshly speaking, again something that does not contribute to any orderly policy that we have. And if we know that there is no, in fact, support in agriculture cannot be compared, because the comparison is almost impossible because most of the support for agriculture comes from the European Union funds, from its budget, although we are just focusing on support for industry and services then there is a reduction in these support for double. Today, the amount of these support in the European Union is 0.6%, especially in the two most significant countries, which is countries worth comparing with, which is France and Germany 0.6%, and in the Republic of Croatia, if agricultural support is refused, it is 1.3%, so we will be followed by a reduction in these support for double, and of course it will not be just so simple to endure and we will have to deal with it. It's a typical situation, at a time when you had the opportunity, when you had the money you didn't have the strength and support to use for restructuring, for development, and then at some point the problem of reducing the amount, reducing the possibility of creation and that's what's waiting for us on this segment of support, and actually a similar situation was in the overall economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. When it could be invested, when it could be saved, we didn't do it, and then the hard years came, the deficits, the cuts, the restrictions, and then it's actually not possible anymore because it's very difficult. This report clearly states that the task of the Competition Protection Agency is to monitor the implementation and impact of the State aid granted. Nowhere in this material is there any direct or indirect assessment of the impact of the support. The Agency does not seem to want to interfere with this problem, and of course it is particularly important what is the impact of such high expenditure on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of course what can be done to make the negative or non-existent effects good. There is no such thing in this Report even though it is as one of its tasks is stated by the Agency. It would be good if such reports by this Agency or any other competent authority contained a very important dimension. Of course, good data is the exact data that we have, of course they mean a lot, but it would also be good if we had some kind of measuring, relevant body that would assess the effects and point to the difficulties that these effects are missing, and that's not in this report. So it's a very important question, so I'm going to quote, or point out some of the views of the government. Therefore, these support in 2010 did not achieve the objectives set out in certain government or ministry programming documents. There has been a further collapse of agricultural holdings despite these 4 billion support, very weak control of the use of support and the desperate situation on Croatian railways when the Government assesses the situation or efficiency of the use of transport support or more or less for Croatian railways. So these are really very difficult assessments and this is about the extremely high amount that we used to make these assessments different. In the case of aids of less value, they should be mentioned because they are not in fact support of small value. It's about 600 million kuna. That's absolutely not a small amount. One part of it, though, is spent on the basis of legal provisions, and then, of course, the control is somehow secured at least because it is legal provisions, but one good part of these support 70, 80% of those 600 million kunas, so about half a billion kuna is spent in a way that is absolutely unclear. As stated in the Agency's report on these support, there is no need for the Agency's approvals because they do not violate trade between the Republic of Croatia and the EU, although they do not violate trade between the Republic of Croatia and the EU, regardless of what the EU position is, because, as colleagues before me have said, they often approve such support, or the law allows it to be approved both without public competitions and without clear criteria, and this is a relatively high amount of about half a billion kuna. Finally, something is speculating here about what is the task of the future agency, or its role. So the agency makes itself seem irreparable to me in the process, the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is pollemising and relativizing it. Each agency will have its place in this important business, but it will certainly need to build monitoring and supervision mechanisms by the Ministry of Finance. I therefore think that this controversy, and that the agency itself puts itself in a position of irreparable, and that neither the Ministry of Finance nor I know which ministry is responsible for this opinion the government is talking about what the role of the agency is, will certainly need to develop a stronger supervisory role of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. So, of course, since it is a 2010 report, it should in some way be a proposal for how the functioning of this segment should not be in 2012, 2013, so in the years in which we can in some ways create some kind of policy. But since this is the report and that the report in a technical sense correctly the Club of HNS Representatives will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5463	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic's representative first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Radoš, said in my opinion two incorrect allegations, and the first when he said that agriculture was a problematic branch. That's not true. Agriculture is a strategic branch that needs to be made competitive where efforts are made to be competitive but with these latest moves, reducing support in agriculture will be a very big problem. The other incorrect allegation you said was that despite the support, the agricultural economies began to collapse. It's incorrect. Family farms have developed about 150 thousand who have increased milk, meat production. And these latest moves, reducing milk prices, rising diesel fuel will destroy agriculture and the village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5465	Thank you. And yet we are increasingly importing food. The next one is to correct the incorrect allegations by representative Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have already said in this opening part of your comment what I wanted to correct. So agriculture is not a problematic branch, and it would not be problematic if it weren't for this much imports, but that these support produced the added value effect of our Croatian agriculture. That's one thing. And another incorrect allegation by Mr. Radosh that very often support was granted without criteria. If there was no other criterion, Mr. Radosh, then it was political belonging to the company owner, and I have information about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5467	Thank you. A representative of the Radosh breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5468	So, I was speaking for the club, quoting the government and colleagues Milinkovic and colleagues Grubisic are actually correcting one of my views which is more my assessment of the situation and is not an actual state. Whether agriculture is a problematic branch or not should be seen as to the structure of production and the structure of imports. Therefore, you can consider it not, but if you have 2.5 hectares of the country's average on 18 parcels in Croatia, then the question is whether the branch is problematic or not. And as for the collapse of agricultural holdings, that's the government's position. I quoted the government's opinion, and that's just a matter of discretion. And my colleague Grubisic talks about how I talked about how the support was without criteria then he himself cites the arguments... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5469	Mr. Rados, I'm sorry, you've announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5470	Now, that was a violation of the Rules of Procedure because there was no correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5471	Thank you. I believe there will be opportunities in this assembly for us to discuss agriculture a little more in detail. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's not losing her right to debate. Next, Ms. Melita Mulic's representative. Here you go. She's not losing her right to debate. Next individual debate, MP Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, let me do some of the numbers that were already said at the beginning. So, the report says that state support in the Republic of Croatia in 2010 was 9.4 billion with a growth of 8% compared to 2009. The share of support in GDP was 2.8%, which was also an increase of 0.2% compared to 2009 or an increase of 8%, while the share of state spending support was 7.8% and increased by 6% compared to 2009. Why do I repeat these figures, precisely because some colleagues have mentioned earlier in their discussions that simultaneously state support in the EU is only 0.8%. Differences in the structure of support to industry and the service sector in relation to the EU clearly point to still dominant support for individual sectors while the share of horizontal support in total aid to the EU, namely, without agriculture, fishing and transport standards was 85% and sectoral 15th, in Croatia it is precisely the diametric opposite. All 32% refers to horizontal ones and to sectoral ones as much as 68%, so there are ratios 1:4. The indicators in this year's State Aid Report, which has been made professionally and qualityly, therefore clearly suggest that Croatia continues to be dominated by an inherited system of support which selectively supports individual sectors in difficulty, and to the detriment of those who truly generate high value added goods and services, or the development of new forms of entrepreneurship, as clearly in most EU countries. From 2003 to 2010 there was a continuous increase in aid for agriculture and fisheries whose share in the total aid granted reached as much as 42.7% while for all other sectors of the economy, the whole industry and services amounted to 57.3. Since there is still no need to restructure sectors such as railways and shipbuilding in 2010 despite all the announcements of the past government, but also a number of other state-owned companies and still too high a share of the total aid granted have sectoral support. They spoke before me, and especially with the emphasis of colleagues Radoš on behalf of the HNS Club, that a low share of horizontal support, including regional and local ones of 13% and those in which industry and service sectors were allocated 23%, is a definitive indicator of the state's lack of involvement in promoting industrial growth, especially when it comes to investing in the knowledge and application of modern technological achievements, innovation, environmental protection. Just such investments, we said so in the debate in the budget and some other debates in this conference, that only such investments in the sectors that I have listed can contribute to increasing the export competitiveness of the Croatian industry and, consequently, to increasing GDP. This definitely means that support priorities should be modified in the future to focus on the objectives that foster research exchanges, innovative projects with a market perspective which is certainly not possible without significant and profound changes. The government of the Republic of Croatia recognized that, in its opinion, it also said that measures would be taken to remove the shortcomings in governance of such an important segment in the economy, and, therefore, as the data in the report in question shows, the government's view. In the view of the Government, given the importance of the fiscal impact of granting state aid and extending the existing system to an out-of-state level, the Government considers it necessary to strengthen the role of the Ministry of Finance, primarily because of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, so as to strengthen fiscal control and other mechanisms relating to the implementation of effective fiscal policy and economic development, and then to ensure consistent and uninterrupted insight into the state of the system and communication between state support providers and EU institutions, it is not the only area in which it is actually necessary to address matters. That is exactly what I am saying, broadly and unusually critically, of the Government itself, on a proposal for a specific report, not on the content of the report, actually on the quality of the report, but on its content, i.e. to the policy that has been led so far, it clearly shows and speaks clearly about consciousness as well as in many other areas of the unsustainability of the existing system of support and the need for change and for changes in the management of economic policy. Well, I wouldn't be longer since there's a lot being said. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5473	Thank you. Next up for an individual debate, representative of Mrs. Vesna Railway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5474	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable president, respected parliamentary representatives. Let me refer to that report. I'll discuss it a little differently. I'll just remind you what the annual support report means and who it's delivering it to and who it's delivering it to. So it says nice to the Agency to deliver support providers. Support providers are our ministries, banks, funds and agencies. The Agency has adopted a Regulation on the format and content and the way in which the data are collected, starting with the mentioned legal powers of the Agency. It is further noted in this report that, when it comes to drawing up the report, all support providers with equal care have not prepared their support reports and delivered them to the Agency. We know who's providing support, and I'd like to ask here right now, this is, in my opinion, a mild expression of attention, who's responsible for the lack of this kind of information. I think this is too mild a term, that not everyone with equal care prepared their support reports. Are there any sanctions for those who have not delivered such reports? Furthermore, regarding this mention, the Agency has shown here on page 89 an assessment of illegal support. I'll look back on that illegal support because it was about the support that was given... shoe manufacturers d.d. in a bankruptcy that no longer exists today. [[You don't understand.]] For the sake of introduction, I'm going to have to point out that it was a factory with an impressive number of employees, today this factory is gone. Here it writes nicely, the Agency found that the entrepreneur did not fully implement all restructuring measures when the aid amounting to 32 million kunas was granted. After that, two more loans were granted, one 9 and one out of 7 million kuna. So that's where over 45 million kunas were invested. Why am I giving a comparison? Because she clearly passed the criteria, past the concerns of the support given and beyond all responsibility. Today, she said the factory doesn't exist. The debt to the state and the Croatian Privatisation Fund, as two loans were from the Croatian Privatisation Fund, remains a circus of about 50 million kuna. Because if you've read it carefully here, the state has also missed reporting billing interest. On the contrary, care for all the support provided in the town of Koprivnica, the town of Koprivnica managed to collect everything invested, and the state of Croatia, meaning the Ministry and the Croatian Privatisation Fund lost about 50 million kuna. I'm now asking, were there any sanctions here for those who provided such support? Who's responsible and are there other cases like this? I'd be really happy if this was the only case that happened with the support and the sanctions on this. But I hope that lady can't give an answer today. But I'd like to know if there were more cases like this. I hope that in future all the support that will be that will have a developed criterion that will be respected and that certainly in 2013 when we will discuss the support certainly will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5475	Thank you. The next is for an individual debate representative, Mr Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5476	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me take a brief look at the form of this report regardless of its content. The report is methodologically structured and gives a clear picture of the area of state aid, not only for 2010 but also respects a slightly longer period. By the way, in the text they are explained in my opinion in a satisfactory way the reasons for the delay in this report. The report sets out definitions of the concepts, methods of data collection as well as methodology of state aid. The time frame of this report is complete because, except in 2010, it covers both the 2009 and the eighth parallel years, and in some analyses it includes the period until 2003. In addition, in the 2011 support assessment chapter, we have that the report and claims a relatively reliable assessment of the support in the last year, so that we can conclude that this report is the basis for a full picture of the support granted in the previous period. It would, of course, suggest that in Croatia, there was a system of state aid that did not lead to economic recovery and development, an increase in investment exports. What this report lacks and represents a key element for the evaluation of the support system is an analysis of the impact of the support. In conclusion, the report also states the need to establish a systematic monitoring of the effects of the aid granted as well as a single guidance for the definition of the analysis process. This will enable the evaluation of individual measures for each year to be carried out, and identify exact indicators to measure the impact of each support. To establish the justification for the use of State aid is not an easy job. The existence of a market failure does not necessarily mean that corrective measures should be taken. Before the application of State support, it is necessary to assess all direct and indirect costs incurred by them, so as not to be more expensive than the disease. Moreover, it is necessary to demonstrate in an argument that the public sector, i.e. the state, can better address the problem than the private sector, or the market. The assumption for the implementation of selective state intervention is that the state has an analytical capacity to choose branches and companies that can become winners better than the market. Or to decide which ones are worth saving, and to determine the measures that should be implemented as well as the moment when aid should be interrupted. But it's a very demanding task. Furthermore, there is a risk that the state falls under the influence of stakeholders who are successfully lobbying to maintain state support even though this is no longer economically justified. In addition, new candidates who could use State aid always appear. Under the influence of stakeholders, state support is difficult to lift, new ones are being introduced, and this vicious circle is difficult to break. State aid also leads to unfair competition between subsidised and non-subsidised enterprises. And of course support is increasingly burdening the state budget and questioning its fiscal sustainability. All of the above shows how successful the reform of state support is, a complex process that must take care of a number of aspects, starting with individual measures of economic policy, to the ruling political and economic and social environment. Although, as previously said, there is no system to control the effects of state aid, we can conclude that state support has not yielded the expected results. The Republic of Croatia lost not only huge money that went into inefficient support but lost valuable time in which structural reforms could be implemented. 42.7% of the share of state aid targeted for agriculture and fisheries failed to strengthen the agricultural economies and thus prepare them for the competitiveness of the market by entering the European Union. Nor should sectoral support amounting to 44.2% of total support, which had above all to enable sector restructuring and infrastructure strengthening, and bringing firms into a state of financial stability instead of financial correction, poor corporate governance did not achieve the desired objectives. If we look at the support structure in EU countries, we can see that the largest share is horizontal support, over 85% of the total support, while this share is 13.1%) in 2010. If we bear in mind that these support is intended for research and development, innovation, environmental protection and energy savings, the promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, employment and the like, then it is no wonder that the biggest support providers are for horizontal objectives and the strongest countries of the European Union. Because only such investments can contribute to increasing the export competitiveness of industry and increasing the gross social product. The report states that, for example, support for research, development of innovation in the Republic of Croatia accounts for 3% of the total support granted to the industry and services sector. In the European Union, this share is 18%, regional development is rising by 6% while in the EU it is almost 24%. Environmental protection gives 23% and the Republic of Croatia half of the total support to industry and services. Another negative feature of support in the Republic of Croatia is the high share of total support in the gross social product. In 2010, it was 2.8% of GDP, while in the EU it was 0.6%. In this sense, this report is useful because it gives us a general picture of the size and structure of state support in the Republic of Croatia and points to the direction in which those in future developments should be followed by the rules of the European Union. In this way there are also general provisions within which Croatia's policy towards state aids should move, i.e. Croatian industrial policy in a broader sense. It is necessary to coordinate support with the rules and practice of the European Union, then improve the transparency of the granting of state aid, and control and impact analysis. Gradually, changes will have to be made, as EU policies and rules will be followed, which advocates less but better quality support. This means that support will have to be reduced and directed to horizontal objectives. Employing state support to finance horizontal targets for example research and development, environmental protection, employment and regional development contributes to economic and regional development and strengthen competitiveness and strategic economic activities. In contrast, State aid should be granted through the basis of individual approvals to certain entrepreneurs, in particular those in difficulty, should be an exception to a one-time nature which it finds its purpose in restoring the long-term sustainability of entrepreneurs on the market. And to conclude, this report points to an inefficient system of state aid, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, as it has already announced, regulate the state aid system both because of the takeover and implementation of the EU acquis and to strengthen fiscal control and other mechanisms necessary for the effective and controlled fiscal and economic efficiency of the measures implemented. And to conclude that this report is largely contained and formally correct and should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5477	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague, Sagar, incorrectly that the support paid in agriculture failed to strengthen the agricultural economies. It is incorrect, they have managed to strengthen a number of agricultural economies in the framework of operational programmes in livestock, fruit growing, etc. Significant shifts have been made, milk, meat production has increased, etc. But, of course, competitive agriculture isn't created overnight, it's a long-term process. Therefore, this phenomenon of reducing support in agriculture also comes as a shock to farmers who will not be able to continue their business under these circumstances and create competitive agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5479	Thank you. We're done arguing, we're done reporting. I'd like to ask Mrs. Olga Spevec for the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I end up feeling the need to say or explain a few other things that I probably didn't at first make clear and loud enough. So when it comes to this report, the methodologically real agency prepares it on the basis of the report provided by the support providers, therefore both at the central state level and at the level of units of local and regional self-government. And in that case, we are also dependent on their zeal, or on their data, and there are no mechanisms other than rushes that we actually get all the data we're looking for in the way we're supposed to get them, or at the time that we're expected to. Well, of course it also causes a certain delay. However, this year the delay was also due to the problem of synchronising the home numbers and the OIB, and here we also wanted to be honest with you that the Parliament was in an interruption due to the election to wait for the European Commission's 2010 support report to be submitted to the EU on December 1st and to include these recent data in our report we actually delivered it later. However, it is not a matter of this report and is not its purpose to point to the level of support. So, from this aspect of the delay in whether there were 9 billion, 9 billion and 400, the purpose of this report is to point to the state of the support sector in terms of structure, in terms of state aid policy and to actually help those who shape that policy to sort of conclude how successful their support policies are and what results have been. So whether a month before or later the report was delivered is actually less important, it is important that all data and all analyses are in the report itself. As for the alleged failure of the agency to assess the effectiveness of the support, I think that today's discussion has shown that in fact the report has shown quite a bit, and in every sentence, it has pointed to the effectiveness of the support system. Because the current system, or system that we had in 2010, is evident from the very report as to how effective it is and what results it has given. So I think this objection may be a little premature. It is our idea, namely, to bind the efficiency issue of support to horizontal support. Therefore, the support to be granted in the future for horizontal objectives and that the methodology that will be pre-known to the support providers ensures that they themselves actually establish an impact measurement system by setting targets, by monitoring the implementation of the results of the aids allocated and similar to the methodology that we have already prepared in the Agency and which we will provide to the support providers. When it comes to the effectiveness of sectoral support, there is no need for a specific analysis because it is clear that the support to the sectors that have been given in Croatia, as I have already said before, so both transport and railways, is irrelevant because these services are important for the provision of services to citizens, to provide services to the economy and it is only a matter of restructuring of these sectors in the sense that, with less state resources and support, they deliver better results. So efficiency is one task for the future when we have more horizontal support. As regards sanctions for support providers, and this support actually shows that it has not been spent properly or in accordance with the intentions of the grantor, there are no sanctions there either. Our law does not provide for any sanctions for donors but foresees sanctions for recipients of support. So for the user's support, the only sanction is the return of interest support. That is the case in the EU, so will the future of Croatia when the EU controls its support. Therefore, I appeal already at this time that support providers, especially those at the central state level, when granting support are aware of the fact that unless it is granted in accordance with the rules on support, that the sanctions, i.e. the result, will be borne by the support user, and not by the provider itself. So it is and perhaps in some Member States there is a sanction for donors, but in most cases there are no sanctions. It is therefore the responsibility of the provider to direct support to that user who will use it in accordance with the regulations. As for EU entry and the roles of this agency, the majority of the jobs, therefore, of the support control, are being transferred to the competence of the European Commission. What we have stated in this report is a sentence that says that although the Commission remains responsible for the decision on aid in the EU national knowledge and experience of the competition protection body remains irreparable to the Commission in order to successfully control the support in a rapid and effective manner in all Member States. So you're not talking here in any case about the irreplaceable role of this agency I don't know where that idea came from, and I didn't think of writing my report that we're irreparable. Therefore, it will definitely be necessary for the state of Croatia to establish a system of cooperation and monitoring of support, regardless of what the European Commission will also carry out since 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5481	Thank you. That concludes the debate, we'll vote when conditions are made for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5482	We move to a statement on the annual State aid report for 2010, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Economic Committee as the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: An annual report on State aid for 2010 is accepted, please include and vote. It found that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of the 107 vote for, no one against, 3 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5483	We move to the next item of the agenda, this is on the proposal of the Proposer - Proposal for a law on amendments to the general tax law, first reading, P.Z. No. 12., Proposer – The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – party of work. - Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Administration Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 13, Proposer – The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – party of work. The proposal is for a joint debate to be conducted. You've received a proposal for action. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance. The government delivered an opinion that you also received on the benches. Would you like to speak on behalf of the Proposer? Here you go, Mr. Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's not a boycott, it's a club. What are we offering this bill? We offer a tool for a quick and effective settlement of the situation in which a man, I will not say taxpayer, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia comes to property, and in the previous year, two, three did not pay taxes. He's a social case, he's unemployed, he's carefree, and by the way he's driving around town to Lamborghini, by the way in the elite part of town has a villa, along the way he's got a couple of villas at sea and he bought a few million shares of a profitable company. Such a person can do all this provided that he pays the sales tax of real estate prescribed and that of 5% how much he already is for which real estate and movable property because no one will ever ask him, listen to how you get the money for that, did you pay the tax while you were making money for that property? This is what we offer as a solution to the Tax Administration Act where we propose that the tax administration undertakes to monitor this situation with all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, not only those who report it, they reported a little less than they earned than anyone. Why are we offering this? I said it already. In Croatia there appeared a layer of new rich people who are practically on the road and not in their workplace because they do not have it, and they make fun of both the tax system and the country's legislative system as well as this country as a whole. In the same way, those who report a minimum tax and cheat on taxes make fun of themselves to say it harshly, but still have enough decency to report something. What the current law now says, says the tax administration can exercise that control. The IRS is doing it with who? With him whom He chooses, he will not spend with whom He does not choose, by which standard he chooses, but I do not know. Is this a political criterion, whether this criterion is family, tribal, cousinly we don't know it, but there's obviously a criterion. What does the minister say? First of all, what does practice say? Practice says that this criterion is primarily of interest, that there are lobbys and stripes between those who create laws, between those who enforce laws and those who apply them and who benefit from the law. And what does our minister say? Our minister really says that's the way it is. And he says that there's this last few days or weeks they've found that there's one time at 500, once at 1,000 I don't know what exactly the data is, people who haven't paid any taxes or minimum taxes have crazy big assets, and now they're going to get them. Now they're going to get caught and a set of regulations that's been in force for years and nobody's caught anyone. What's going to happen so suddenly now? A change of complete consciousness change has now come a new team that will catch all thieves, and so far the team has not caught one, it doesn't seem real to me. In a situation where the law allows the tax administration to work according to reason and when the main verb is in the legal regulations of power rather than necessarily. We believe that the tax administration, like any other state service, cannot have the power to enforce the law, enforce the regulation or not to implement it. The State Service must implement every regulation to be voted in this Parliament. One of the reasons for the government's refusal is that the situation is regulated by income tax and that there is really no need in any way to change regulations. The income tax applies to income, so to what has gone over the bill, to what man has earned, reported or tried to excitate, not to report, avoid but mainly to something that has gone through legal channels. This explanation won't be funny the moment when crime is greening, drug dealing, marriquettes with fake companies and so on become part of income. The legal income that a man reports and writes with a nice bribe I earned 5 million kunas then he can be caught if he earned 6 million bribes and only reported 5. However, such things often do not apply to income today, and that is why the argument that this situation can be controlled by better monitoring income tax payments is ridiculous in fact. What would we want by this law? We'd like this country like many civilised countries in the world to catch thieves when they spend money, because they can't get caught stealing. We should each have one cop each, it's not exactly like a good country where a man wants to live, but a moment of spending money can be traced in a thousand and one way. Among other things, over taxes on cars, real estate taxes, through stock exchange transactions, the problem is still no problem. We would like to see such people caught, that those assets be frozen, and the legal procedures taken by those people because they earned by stealing, thieving, crime, and returned to those to whom it belonged. Croatian citizens. Taxing such property, so we establish these 500 or a thousand people the minister found I don't know what mechanism, but let's find them, who earned and bought the property and didn't report taxing of such property is actually legalizing theft. These people didn't buy the money they earned with a fair deal, because if that money had come through a fair deal, it would have been reported and paid a income tax on it, and then there's no dilemma. So these people have earned money in a completely different way and that property that has been spent on can't be taxed in any way because it's stolen property. We hoped that this simple bill would be adopted and that the tax collectors in some near future when things agreed, when things started to really work out this legal state of ours, would be able to come to the citizen and ask the gentleman where did you get the money for it. Today, the tax collectors can neither do nor want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5485	Thank you. The government delivered an opinion. Government official, does he want to take a word for it? Here you go, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Very short. Here I'd like to tell you two things, your intention that makes sense which is positive, you went with a positive amendment proposal, but here it's done on the other hand to enter into a change of law, so in this part we felt unnecessary just because we said it was defined. This is more about how to implement it. So I say amending the law in this regard, we do not see what is necessary since this is clearly defined by the Income Tax Act of Article 63(1), (2) and (3) and the General Tax Law. So these legislations are in line with EU standards, so there's no problem here, we don't have that kind of problem with legislation. There's a problem with implementation. I'm saying I wouldn't go back in time, let's try to see and hope that the goal and the opposition and the opposition are to put in that order and hopefully we all have an agreement there, so let's try to look positively at these things that we're going to try to solve these problems together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5487	I'm hanging in there. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Here you go. Representative Mr. Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go. The Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5488	Dear Vice President, Deputy and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As the parent committee, the Committee on Budget and Finance discussed the draft law of the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party. In his opening statement, the representative of the club, Mr Vuljanic, pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has continued the poor practice of the previous governments, as a rule, to reject all proposals for legislation sent by the opposition in the parliamentary procedure, and the majority support such a view by the government. Since Mr Vuljanic thus said that such behaviour will continue in connection with this bill of law and law, which is next at the agenda point, MP Nikola Vuljanic left the committee session. The members of the board condemned such inappropriate behaviour by representatives of the Croatian Labour Party Club and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament did not support the draft law in question and unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the General Tax Law proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5489	Thank you. I hope that Mr Vuljanic's abandonment wasn't the reason for the rejection of good. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, a representative of Mr Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5490	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I just have to look here because I wanted to look right there. I'm sorry there are no representatives of the government, and I'm going to link this situation to the Committee on Economic Affairs. I've listened to all these years when the SDP was in opposition how the government that acted until last year was in power of HDZ and their partners were doing everything wrong. When I was on the first Committee on Economy then the chairman of the board and the board members spoke as Minister Shuker said, they did not even say former Minister Schuker. So they admitted that what the past government was doing to keep this one going and that what the past government was doing was good. The only thing I don't understand is Mr. Shucker saying when it was good. Mr. Shucker was present, so he knows about it. This explanation of the ministry gentleman is very unusual. The first time you read the board's argument was the first time one MP was convicted for leaving the session. I'm sorry, sir, but leaving the board meeting, I'm sorry, I'm talking to the agent, leaving the board's session is a perfectly legitimate act. Leaving the board and protesting the board is a legitimate act. Well, you're not gonna forbid us to stand up and beg you and ask if we're allowed out. And yet we're not in that kind of relationship and we'll never be. So what you wrote here is a shame that the Parliament works that way and that you even built that sentence in there that you built. Mr Vuljanić shouldn't have left the board by your side. Yeah, he's protesting, yeah, this is behavior, we've said several times it's government continuity in behavior. You haven't accepted a single decimal in 20, and I don't know how many suggestions we've already made. You've never... Not even the agenda, you never did. [[You don't understand.]] You spoke in an inaugural speech that I mentioned was one of the best, the media mistranslated except for Mr. Gotovina, and then I said it was just words, waiting for deeds, no deeds. Here's to introduction. So why did we propose this law? Says the ministry gentleman needs to look positively. We're looking at the positive, which is why we wanted to change the law. That positive view has shown us that you don't want to continue to catch thieves. Our intention said you made sense, so if it makes sense, read again what it says to us. So the intention isn't evil and the intention makes sense. It's naive, not to say stupidly, to expect the same people with the same laws, with equal favor to those who took it out of our pocket, to behave differently. No, it'll be all the same. So this government has decided to keep everything the way it is, and as we know it ourselves. By this law we actually wanted someone to finally become responsible for setting the red alarm light on fire. As at least in Croatia it is stolen with a sock on its head and with a rifle in its hand because the biggest Croatian thieves are often the pillars of society, someone should place those pillars of society in the right group. Someone needs to be monitored when someone has multiple, larger assets than income, someone needs to be alarmed, someone needs to be analyzed, and someone needs to freeze that property first, and then in a court case if it's wrongly acquired to take it away. Our proposals go that way. How to detect drug dealers, pimps, smugglers, white slave smugglers, non-tax-paying fushers. We should catch them, we said that a hundred times, when they spend money, when they buy villas, when they buy yachts, when they buy cars, when they buy planes. I drove a year ago with a gentleman from a concert in a nice car, then I asked if he bought that car through a company, said I don't have over my company, says I don't have a company. I asked him where he works, he doesn't work anywhere. There's a car worth a million and some kuna, a million, 200 thousand kuna. It doesn't work, if he's getting social help, I don't know that. We have suggested that such people be spotted as soon as possible and that they are processed as soon as possible, unless, of course, their aunt from America left them the property, if they won the lottery, and now they pay taxes on the lot, they were never paid before. Many with 1000, 2000 kuna incomes are users of social assistance, and they have more than hundreds of average citizens. Taxes must register the disproportionateness between assets and income, i.e. the tax paid. It shouldn't be Sherlock Holmes to find out how, for example, the former prime minister was receiving money he didn't earn. How can I claim that, so simply because his property is bigger? Society was alarming, media alarmed when they asked where the watches came from, when they asked where the art came from. No one from the departments, the police, the State's Attorney's office has ever responded. Who actually cares about being caught as little as possible by thieves, that this disproportionateness between assets and personal incomes covered by a paid tax is not revealed. These are certainly politicians and ministers and MPs and mayors and mayors and mayors and tax collectors and businessmen, those who have used holes in the law so far. With this proposal, the two laws wanted to shut those holes down. The government has shown that it does not want to catch thieves and has sent a clear message to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5491	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovec on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's where you said the same interesting thing, that you were driving as far as I heard, that you identified that person. Well, here I am right now calling today if you said we didn't want it, I think it's every citizen's obligation, so I said if he knows, he has knowledge of reporting it. I'd like to ask you so nicely, there's the head of the IRS, in the IRS, I think you're a conscientious citizen. If you've noticed that, if you know it means you report it. Nothing else, I just wanted to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5493	Thank you very much. We have a further discussion on behalf of the club. On behalf of the HDZ Club, representative Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no left-hand side, but I think about a subject that's as old and human as it is, and you can see, after all, that customs are often mentioned in the Bible, we're getting into some kind of political debate, and I think if there's nothing politics or politics can't handle this topic that's being discussed here today. And I also think that as a minister who suggested a personal identification number, I have a lot of right to say some things that I'm about to say right now, for the simple reason that for purely professional reasons I can't allow the IRS to be spoken of in the way it's spoken. The first thing there are thousands of honest, correct people doing their job. And as I've said since God and man was there were those who controlled someone to pay what they belonged to the state, whether they'd always avoided it. And the successes were different. But there's also something that's true that we can't escape from, which is that the IRS isn't working on self-reclaming and the IRS isn't functioning on principle if it determines a certain tax irregularity to publish it through newspapers and to be the main attraction tomorrow. I will only tell you one example in 2005 revealed over 400 boat owners in the Republic of Croatia who introduced these vessels to what so-called. double citizenship based on this or that they had some nationality in another country, so they bought a vessel, introduced it into the Republic of Croatia temporarily and never after three months of exporting it, etc. Customs is once systematic control, with the police, etc. established over 450 such owners. And let's say in the area she introduced order. The second thing, as far as I know, since 2004 and before, has been certain provisions, who buys real estate over 2,200 kuna and the movable has to make a statement about the origin of the funds. So, and now we can fight here one way or another, go to the IRS, apply for real estate tax. You'll get a form that you have to fill out, it's in there writing you a origin for buying real estate, and you have to specify whether it's an inheritance, whether it's a profit, whether it's a loan or anything else. The IRS is obliged to check it out and see if these things are consistent. However, given all the shortcomings that existed, etc. It has started working on a personal identification number project, a project that has been working for three years and a project that has now been revived and what is now the current head of the IRS, I apologize to the head of the IRS, the Director of the Tax Administration and Minister Linic for saying that they have discovered some who have disproportionate assets in relation to the assets is the result of the use of the OIB and one new model and how to control income and spending of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, something that has not been written about for two years now, and this has been done by collecting various data, including what is written in the media. And then when it's all typed into the system at a given point, you show red. It means that someone with some kind of purchase and acquisition of property exceeded what he legally reported to have earned. So when we talked about the OIB, then we said that the last practical wheel to make the OIB fully operational was that the High Commercial Court recorded all the owners of the company that were registered in the High Commercial Court under the old law reregistered under the new law, so that all those who founded the company are registered in the High Commercial Court. When you type in an OIB you are practically made a beauty of ownership, co-ownership, whether these natural persons or these legal persons over other legal persons. And this information will not only solve your problem of profit and property acquisition, but it will solve among other things some interlinkages that have unfortunately been in recent years indivisible generators, and ultimately if 65% of those blocked companies are companies without any employees then it clearly indicates that it is a cancer wound at the moment and that simply a man has to solve the problem first you have to solve 65% of companies that do not have any employees, so they generate practically 60% of the blocked funds and 63, four percent of the nominally blocked companies. So the instrument we found, it started to apply and it's not good, I say speak in this way as it's spoken. The other thing is, what the deputy minister said. The obligation of each of us if we notice certain anomalies to report. The OIB is exactly and one of the reasons for the introduction of the OIB was to simply stop bidding in Croatia who has what, who has what and where someone gained something. That's exactly why. And we don't need it when it comes to the OIB, we don't need any more stories about obsolescence about privatisation and some other stuff, we just don't need it because we're going to have all the data in the central register. And anyone who has an asset disproportionate to what he has earned or what he has earned will have to give an answer to where that property came from. I know that some people find this funny, but the OIB is definitely an instrument that many people didn't like when they realized what he was bringing. The OIB is definitely something that made me personally uncomfortable. But the OIB is definitely an instrument that will bring down many moral verticals in Croatia, so be assured. And what is now said to have been seen to be 500, 600 or 1000 of those who have disproportionate assets in relation to earnings is due to the use of the OIB. And you'll see this isn't any empty story, it's just something that's a fact and what's going to happen in this country, so you'll see that, this OIB is the work of HDZ, and then it won't be able to say that HDZ was hiding something. Because at the end of the day, we all supported the OIB in this High House, all the political options supported it. But the OIB results probably won't like many. I said many moral verticals in this Croatia will be imagined after some things. Because just like you said, there won't be any more opportunities for someone to receive social assistance and any help from the state, and it has shares, it has ownership of shares, it has property in or co-ownership in companies, it has some other property. Because we will also have to define the relationship of family members in providing social assistance, it doesn't matter if someone who has two or three thousand kuna pensions lives in a family household together with several other family members who receive twenty, thirty thousand kuna or that pension alone spends. So that's a series of definitions that this House of the High will have to discuss, which this House of the High will finally have to say, and that there have been a lot of things, that it simply can't do with it anymore. But in order for all of this to be done together, it had to be done what was done. And I repeat, in 2008, the OIB was nominated from the World Bank among the top ten IT projects and make sure that they would not nominate it as among the top 10 IT projects if it weren't for the quality it is. But I repeat this now that she was a minister's statement a few days ago is just a consequence of the functioning of the OIB. Thus, the law is all defined, and all those who have a problem with certain matters should be careful not to prevent those who do their job with their political influence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5495	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, representative Mr Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5496	Here I would only correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Shucker who said the IRS is checking the source of the money. Here I am, the gentleman from the ministry tells me to report it. Here I am reporting, I've had twice as much as 200 thousand kuna transactions and it wasn't even being checked I begged the taxpayer because I was proud of what I earned and he said who was going to check out that small money. Here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5497	Okay, thank you. Representative Schuker's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5498	My colleague Vuksic did not correct my claim. I said there's a pattern that needs to be filled out in the IRS, and he can't fix it if I say there's a pattern and it's something obvious. He can't fix it because it's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5499	It's a fact, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5500	So you can't fix something that's a fact. I said, I send him to the IRS to report real estate and he'll see that he gets a form that needs to fill out where he writes the way he acquires real estate funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5501	Of course, we understand. Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, although few. I don't even see any MPs on one side. It's not my place to comment, Mr. Vice President, but it's interesting, yes. The HDSSB Club will support the proposal of the Law on Supplements to the General Tax Law as well as the proposal of the Law supplementing the Tax Administration Act, which was sent to the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Party. Why would he support these two legislative proposals? Well, because from these discussions that we've been having so far today, there's been an agreement between all of us. We've had that agreement for 20 years. But it's obvious and more than obvious that I'd say it this figuratively or metaphorically there's a fig in my pocket when we support saying tax purity. Right, there's a fig in the pocket and in the former rulings, and in the ruling ones now. And that's what the outing of the board he was talking about in the opening part seems to me to be Mr. Vuksic or something. Now, when I'm reporting my taxes by the end of February, that's how I collect all possible data on my incomes and those expenditures that I've had a relief on, etc., and when I forget something, some kind of document comes to the IRS and then the IRS tells me, and sir, you didn't bring us how much income you had from the court's art. Which I forgot because the court didn't, the Public Court's accounting didn't send me that document or I forgot to put it in. So it's true that all of the incomes that any of us have already existed in the IRS is through that OIB that we're already so much discussing and discussing, but which is actually still a newborn. It didn't fully come to life. Namely, that's how it is and that the IRS has either a wish or a intention to sanction what's wrong then we shouldn't actually have some kind of special discipline and confusion in reporting a tax card because everything that comes into the account, everything that's done, it exists. It exists on the computer and stands by every taxpayer through the OIB. So then one year I asked the IRS, which is why one of these so I could tell the tycoon that there is doubt or rumor that a certain person owes hundreds of millions of kunas in tax debt. So I am responsible that I have no right to know from Article 8 because it can only be learned if there is a judicial dispute or a complaint. So the court dispute in which the court can then request such information, and I as a natural person, regardless of which I am not exaggerating the role of a parliamentary representative, I cannot find out because it is a tax secret. Now, with all the opportunities that the IRS has now talked about, I know well, and I know people who drive to say angry jeeps worth hundreds of thousands of kunas, and at the Bureau they're for employment. Well, I don't think there's a quick and spotting reaction in that IRS then we wouldn't be talking here and talking about it and discussing it here, Mrs. from the IRS, is as Mr. Schucker's head of the IRS said, that in the gray economy, there's not nearly a third of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. About the gray economy, actually it's not gray but black economy, we've spent a lot of words here and I wouldn't repeat it. This is why it is not bad to say it is a good proposal, which is referred to by this Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour and Labour Party which, in fact, in the event of purchase, is the purchase of certain movables and real estate, and therefore this legal proposal controls the money from which to obtain these properties. What's the problem with all of us? I don't know. What is the problem and why there is resistance at both clubs, I am talking about the most, let me tell the most numerous clubs in the Croatian Parliament? And one more thing, when I was already given the opportunity to talk about this tax, I wonder when we have already tax rates relating to salaries, receipts of 12, 25 and 40% why the possibility has never been considered, and this law was changed 8 or 9 years ago to tax on income that takes place outside of basic occupation, on a contract of action or, as I have stated in court as a court expert, always taxing the rate of 25% no matter what the amount of receipt is. Why doesn't he go to that income you're earning, which is why he doesn't go at the rate. It's always 25%. Is that so? If that tax is already charged in order to tell the employer where you have earned income outside your basic profession, you are not even obliged to apply, but is already paid at a rate of 25%, you do not have to report that income. I, for one, reported myself neatly. Now, therefore, I think that if we are treating this country fairly, then this law has no harm, if we think neatly about our tax, if we think neatly about what we owe the state, then this Law can't do any harm. for those who honestly think about taxing their country. That's why I don't understand there's opposition, and the HDSB Club is for such legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5503	Thank you. We have a correction to Mr. Ivan Shuker's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5504	Thank you very much. I have to say on behalf of the HDZ Club that there is no resistance, we said that there are all the instruments that charge for all this, another thing, as the OIB system develops, so certain things in the law are going to change, at this point you simply can't know what's going to happen, so there's no resistance, but we argue that if the tax administration applies all the existing provisions it can do, at the end of the application of the OIB that's actually started now, everyone who has property is disproportionate to profit. So it's not resistance, it's simply the fact that... at this point legally it's all settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5505	Thank you. It is clear more or less the legal framework is given and further is the practice. We're moving on to an individual debate, MP Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5506	Your Honor, Mr. President, the representatives of the ministry and the other MPs. What was left here, I was going to start with an appeal to colleagues who were not present to prove in some way that the prime minister in his opening speech was saying something that made sense, which will prove itself in practice when he said that no automatism would be rejected all proposals coming from the opposition side. However, this not only is the message that there is no intention of doing so but it is such a rather boastful proof that we were right when we suspected that this was exactly what was going to happen. It was definitely really unpredictable that at the 16 hours of the week the debate could take place then it's normal that the Club of Representatives was scheduled at that time. When it comes to the proposal of this Law, we are definitely acting, we did not propose it, which we did not propose to do at all when everything inside the existing law is defined, it is perfectly clear and makes it possible for all those who are working under this law and who are the basic part of the job to do exactly what we suggest we should prevent, or that those who have the property that they could not have on their own incomes should be determined. I'll be a little bit less ironic to say so I ask if that means that all the workers of the tax administration were incompetent so they didn't know how to determine it? It's definitely not like that, and you know it's not like that. Therefore, if all this worked together and all of this was well-assembled, why did it happen that there were no such cases in practice. What you colleagues mentioned was why you did not report such a case, so all of Croatia can be accused, we all saw in the media that then the prime minister has no idea how many watches, how many pictures, no one has reported, couldn't even log in. As much as Mr. Schucker mentioned, it was a civic duty and a duty for all citizens to act on it, so whether anyone reacted at the time in such a way. What a colleague on this side is currently missing, frankly, is far more than we expected and we expected that no proposal on our part would be accepted. I think this is more of their absence from this debate, I think it is more of a message to Croatian citizens than it is to six representatives of the Croatian Labourers. It is obvious that the message we will do as we please and as we will and what our colleague Vuksic would say is the government of continuity continues its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5507	Thank you. We have a replica of your presentation by Mr Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5508	As a journalist for 33 years working in journalism, I reported all these cases, wrote about people's names and names, I was one of the most concrete journalists, I don't see anyone reacting. It has never responded to this text, it hasn't responded to the state's attorney's office, it hasn't responded to the tax administration, it hasn't responded to the police, it's started to react in the last two years, it's started to react, but it's also too slow for us citizens, someone needs to give an example to the citizens. And the example should also be given by the tax administration and the police, and the DORH and we politicians agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5509	Thank you. Next for an individual debate representative Mr. Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5510	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Clearly, when we talk about a serious subject like this and talk about it, it's sad to see it like this in that part that it's an empty assembly room. Why am I saying that? Because tax laws sort of blood flow of a state. How high-quality they are, how expendable they are, is the success of a particular country when it comes to its financial operations. We know what the financial business of the Croatian state is. On the one hand, we increase the value added tax, we hit all layers of citizens while on the other hand we do not want to process in that part and we do not want to sanction those who steal, who cheat on the state and who are rich in an illegal way. Clearly, the question is why? It is said here that good intentions with this law are good intentions not only to support it enough but also to be incorporated into laws and should be done, we implement the verse of the law and in any case what we have proposed to this law, which is sanctioning all those who in some way illegally and illegally reach their wealth. It's no secret we all know. Today, if you're going to do something and you want a master to do something for you, then you have two prices. One price is the one with an account, and the other is the price you can negotiate which is 30 and 40% less than the price that is for the account. On this basis, the state is wrong, and therefore this business is covered up and therefore created on the other hand a certain wealth. There are examples in companies where workers are paid part of the salary over the payroll and part of the salary is paid by hand. Clearly, this is where the state is being deceived, and clearly this is where the other particular wealth is being created. We also have a situation that practically through tax obligations you simply do not want to look at yourself and do not want to look into the truth in a way that is very important for a country in all normally regulated countries. The biggest fraud and the greatest sanctions are practically fraud to the state through tax laws. That's the only thing we don't want to see. We're talking about an OIB that was alive a few years ago and it's not in office until today. We're talking about some things that they're well-placed that there are forms to write on but we're not talking about whether it's feasible, how it's feasible and ultimately whether some of them benefit from it. And in our good intentions, we wanted all those who benefit in some illegal way that they sanctioned that they felt they couldn't do it, but as far as we can see, there's no will. Clearly Croatian Labourists in their pre-election promises said this and Croatian Labourists will continue to advocate to correct certain things when it comes to illegal wealth and sanctioning those who are not subject to the tax obligation of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5511	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5512	Well, if we're in the Croatian Parliament, then we should speak Croatian. In Croatia, there is no value added tax, but a value added tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5513	Thank you. I believe it was a lapus. We have one replica of Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5514	A neighbor from the neighborhood would be said in Zagreb to my neighbor, so you were talking about the part of the salary paid through the payroll, the part of the salary that goes to the hands in cash, which would be said to be in cash eating. However, there is also a part that is paid in bonuses that you can only spend in your boss's company. So we've got a shopping mall, and I know those who are registered in Slavonski Brod, so you can only spend those bonuses in the markets of that owner. About what was said and it seems to me that you or your colleague said that every citizen should, with some knowledge, report illegality and tax or something that smells like I don't smell like tax returns. So isn't there a tax inspection and everyone else who's obliged not to report it. So why are we paying the tax inspection? To report tax fraud and illegality of that kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5515	Thank you. We have a reply to Mr. Zlatko Tušek's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5516	Thank you, sir, for warning me if in any case when you mentioned the bonuses not only is that part of the exception but it's almost a rule in the company's mass to be paid in bonuses which clearly in that part we have and certain things that the IRS does not sanction those employers. And what that means is that we should get the bonuses into the pay system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5517	Thank you. We're done with the reports. I'm calling on the government's representative, Mr. Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you only briefly for the debate was useful. And what I'd like to say is actually that by not accepting this law of the bill, we're not going in that direction to protect someone, we're actually just saying that it wouldn't remain unclear, so it's all written, things that we've all touched here and in your discussions, and what you've shown is an implementation. And that's what we're actually going to be different about if we're going to be successful in solving tax ejaculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5519	Thank you. I call on the proposaler's representative final. Here you go, Representative Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just a few sentences for the place. Of course, I was encouraged by the discussions that were being held here. Mr. Deputy Minister will say it was a useful discussion. I sincerely hope so, and if we have this legislative proposal that won't go away because most of it won't be for him, if we've given these legal proposals little thought elements, if we've raised a subject in public that we all know all about, we all know everything. Because we can act as crazy as we want, but we all know all about it. If we have raised this topic to a level of importance for the Republic of Croatia then we have done a great thing. A fellow Shuker was talking about the functioning of the OIB. The OIB we know isn't working yet. It's being introduced, as the OIB spends its time connecting to the grantovnica, so by the time it connects with the other state office, it's going to be a long time. One of the problems of the Republic of Croatia is that the ministries and state institutions do not have compatible interfaces and the data that you have in one place are elsewhere, but there is no connection between them. This link is, of course, one of the tasks of a correct and smart government. Also colleague Shuker said one sentence that actually tells me how right we were. You said something had to change, and now he's willing to change. It is wonderful and it says that in Croatia things change when political will is obtained and acquired. So it's not the thieves that get caught stealing or spending, it's the political will that these thieves get caught. Well, if the time has come for him to have political will now, let's do this job. Why is this all important? Because the scam, when you're fooled by that matchmaker with three matches, say, or when someone breaks into your house or someone robs a bank, he cheats on you at matches, he breaks into the house and steals the furniture, he robs the bank, but when someone cheats on your taxes, he cheats on both kindergartens and children, and disabled schools, schools, hospitals, and roads, and my salary, he cheats us all. Everywhere in the world this crime is the most serious crime for this very reason, because it's not a fraud person, it's a fraud of a complete society and all the values of that society, whatever they are and whatever society they are. The state is being materialized in fact through tax collection and the distribution of these money wherever it is necessary. Now, whoever cheats on tax cheats in that segment is practically an entire nation. What we've heard here is that everything in the system is fine. I can believe it is, the experts say it is, I guess it is. It's all good just that nothing's wrong, everything's good just that the tax ejaculation is huge. All good is we have 45 billion unaccounted taxes, those that are registered, and you can imagine how many of these aren't registered at all. Unfortunately, it is a fine custom of this Parliament that the government always and generally rejects everything that comes from the opposition and that the ruling majority always and generally rejects any proposal the government has rejected will also apply to this law. But I'm saying, if we've raised this topic to a level of such importance then we've fulfilled at least part of our pre-election promise and what we're here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5521	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5522	Thank you very much. So the incorrect allegation is that Vuljanic's colleagues are not tied to institutions, they are informationally tied to a compatible system and all information can be withdrawn. Whether or not someone does it is the responsibility of the one responsible for those actions of the state administration. And the other thing, I didn't say that there was political will now, but I said that at the moment the OIB was introduced, it was clearly said that there was a political will to arrange certain things.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5523	Thank you. We're done with today's work. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions on both bill proposals. Tomorrow we will continue with the agenda Final draft law implementing Regulation No. 648/2004. The European Parliament and the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 55. Thank you and good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-14-0.u5524	We move to a statement on the proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Law, first reading, P.Z. No. 12. Proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Party of Work. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law supplementing the General Tax Law is not accepted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. We're voting for the conclusion that it's not accepted. I find that it was passed by most votes, 73 votes in favour, 11 against and 26 abstentions.
