ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18801	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament I wish you a good morning and here in a few sentences I want to present an extremely important document to the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2012 to 2017. I believe that it is clear that exactly the National Strategy for drug abuse is a fundamental strategic document in the area of drugs and that it is a framework for the action of all state institutions and civil society organisations to combat drug abuse. Since the National Strategy to control drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006-2012 was in effect until 31 December 2011, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, in cooperation with the expert working group in which representatives of numerous ministries, counties, NGOs and scientific institutions participated developed a draft National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse for the period 2012-2017. In accordance with EU practice, the strategy is adopted for a period of 6 years, and the three-year action plans to combat drug abuse, which will be adopted after the adoption of the National Strategy, will describe the specific objectives and ways to achieve these objectives as well as the specific tasks of individual perpetrators for the selected budgetary period. It is important to say that, in line with the recommendations of the European Council for the Making of the National Strategy, the expertise of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction has been used, the results of the evaluation of the current National Strategy, the guidelines of the UN Office for Drugs, the World Health Organisation documents and recommendations and guidelines from other European and international documents. It is also important to describe the national strategy to say that it is based on certain principles, that drug policy should be based on several main principles such as: the principle of constitutionality and legality, the principle of human rights of addicts, the principle of child protection, youth and family from drug abuse, the principle of globality of drug abuse and global participation, the principle of decentralisation, the principle of a comprehensive approach to addressing drug issues and the principle of balanced and multidisciplinary approach. The national strategy contains strategic objectives, priorities and measures that will effectively ensure responsibility for the implementation of a comprehensive national anti-drug policy. The vision set out in the national strategy is to reduce the supply and demand of drugs in society, and through integrated and balanced access to drug issues to provide adequate protection for the lives and health of children, young people, families and individuals, thereby maintaining the state of prevalence of drug abuse in the context of socially acceptable risk so as not to undermine the fundamental values of society and endanger the safety of the population. The mission of national and national drug policies is to implement different programmes and approaches aimed at preventing drug abuse between children and young people and reducing health and social risks related to drug abuse and child protection programmes, young people, families and society as a whole from drug abuse and addiction, as well as to implement an effective policy to reduce drug availability and organised drug crime at all levels. The main objectives contained in the national strategy are to reduce demand and reduce the supply of drugs in the context of which they are the main, expected results of a measurable reduction in drug use, addiction and related naturally health and social risks arising from drug use. The specific objectives of this national strategy that we propose, prevent and reduce drug abuse and drug addiction, especially among children and young people, reduce the extent of the problem of drug abuse and social addiction as well as related health and social risks arising from drug abuse. Furthermore, reduce the availability of drugs at all levels and all forms of drug abuse crime, and improve, build and network a system to combat drug abuse and fight addiction at national and local level. The main areas of the national strategy can be described in the following 7 points: demand reduction, second reduction of drug supply, education, national information system that should include monitoring, research and evaluation, coordination, international co-operation and funding for the implementation of the national strategy. Within each area mentioned above, specific objectives and priorities are defined which are directly linked to action plans and implementation plans at national and local level, and not to an international cooperation plan. At the end of this recital, the financial resources for the implementation of the national strategy are provided in the budget paragraphs of the offices and resolution ministries in charge of implementing the national strategy measures for 2012 amounting to €31,688,550 for 2013, amounting to €31,407,008, and for 2014, 2015,2016 and 2017 amounting to €31,927 500. Here's so much in the opening explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18802	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues agreed yesterday that we have a united debate, but out of correctness towards you representatives and clubs in the Croatian Parliament, did we not agree that an extension of the debate would be necessary from 15 to 20 minutes? My opinion is that we have a rational relationship with time, so let's keep the debate and clubs within 15 minutes. If there are any objections or other suggestions, I accept. Let's make a deal. Thank you very much. I think we made a deal, 15 minutes per club. Do the workers want to take the floor? No, I don't. Yeah? Dear Dunja Špoljar, Educational Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18803	That's right. Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On 11 October, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament considered the proposal of the National Strategy to combat the abuse of others in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2017 as an interested working body. The opening argument was tabled by representatives of the applicants in the debate, the importance of timely identification of the problem and the taking of measures to protect children, young people and their families with the aim of strengthening health education and prevention programmes in the education and education system was stressed. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a national strategy to combat the abuse of others in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2012 to 2017 with the following three amendments. So all three amendments concern the implementation of health education in the strategy and it is that there has been a time shift from the adoption of a strategy to the discussion of a strategy in Parliament, and in the meantime, the health education curricula has entered primary schools as mandatory, and we propose these amendments. Amendment 1, in Chapter 1.2 – Development of a drug abuse prevention system in the Republic of Croatia, the education and education system has taken over most of the responsibility for the organisation and implementation of the Programme for Prevention of Dependence in Educational and Higher Educational Institutions and High Schools by implementing the Obligatory Health Training Programme for the Prevention of Dependence in Primary, Medium, etc. Schools. Amendment 2, in Chapter 4.1.1. – Prevention of child and youth addiction, paragraph 2 is changed and it is said, and now that I am not just reading everything, I will read the part that is changing, "As the largest number of children and young people is covered by the education system, it is necessary to systematically educate teachers and teachers and teachers and teachers for the best possible implementation of the health education curricula of the basics and secondary school addiction prevention module and other preventive programmes, projects and activities to be included in the annual plan and programmes of schools and other educational systems." And Amendment 3, which talks about education under number 4.3, adds a point in the middle and it is second, "organize the permanent education of all health education institutions module prevention of addiction in the education system." Since the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a Decision on the introduction, monitoring and evaluation of the health education curricula in primary and secondary schools, the proposed amendments complement the strategy and strengthens the role of health education so that its implementation in the education and education system of the Republic of Croatia is as high as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18804	Thank you very much. Presidents and representatives of other working bodies do not want to. Before I open the debate, I welcome the Deputy Ministers of Social Policy and Youth and Deputy Minister of Health who will accompany our debate. I'm opening a debate. We're going to the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Assembly and respected Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18805	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the motionary. Well, here's because we've united the debate, and we haven't heard the 2011 report, and we, as Parliamentarians, have a united debate, and I hope we can coordinate. The strategy's plan and what is highlighted is that units of local and regional self-government must be more involved in the prevention of addiction, but I believe that reading the 2011 report may be on the trail that all of this and such plans can result unfortunately in some bad expectations. In fact, reading these reports, we see that the counties are becoming less and less single each year for the implementation of action plans, and also less and less for the prevention of drug addiction and the state budget, which in 2011 was lower by 24.1% compared to 2010. I will give an example in Istria County, which is unfortunately leading by the number of addicts to 100 thousand residents with 542.2 addicts who have been incontinuing since 2009 since these indicators have been monitored year after year. With this strategy, we have again made it necessary to decentralise the responsibility of the county and local self-government units, but we have not remembered that we should also decentralise certain funds that would be good for these counties and local self-governments in implementing the strategy and action plans. As far as the strategy is concerned, and as far as some of our plans are concerned, what and how we should be doing so is well written, however, we are facing a very large number of problems. Every year, in municipal, city and county councils, we listen to the Ministry of the Interior's report on how much the increase in the number of addicts in a particular unit of local self-government or regional self-government, but everything ultimately stands at it and the municipalities and cities simply in the absence of their funds and money do not do anything to reduce addiction as such. The problem of drug availability is still worrying. A large number of our drug dealers are being caught by the police of other foreign countries and are unfortunately in their prisons, and with this strategy we are not solving the consequences of the cause. We have in the report a lot of cases under criminal or criminal law relating to the consumption of intoxicating drugs. However, I think we're still at an invisible level as far as catching big fish is concerned. We heard from colleague Dunje's report that the education system has taken a major role in the prevention and education of educators and education of children and young people in primary and secondary schools and it is certainly good because it is precisely this prevention that we can show young people and how we should live to avoid the hell of others. However, we have not heard that in this education system, a large number of parents should be educated. And I think that education institutions are exactly where teachers and professional staff of primary and secondary schools could involve a large number of parents, also in getting to know drugs, which means drugs, and what drugs even look like. Unfortunately, a large number of parents don't even know what drugs look like. The risk of child behavior is influenced by reduced parental supervision, lack of parental rules of conduct, specific tolerance of parents according to individual means of addiction, financial situation and education of parents. Thus, the impact of friends who take drugs and who do not recognize the risks of smoking and drinking alcohol and taking, especially easy drugs, is extremely important. Psychological factors that are characteristic of children who are consummates of alcohol and psychoactive agents refer to low self-esteem, signs of depression in female consumers to antisocial and delinquent behaviour. That is why I ask that a little more care be taken into account and that is, I cannot say, raising, but I can say, parent education in primary and secondary schools. One important link in the anti-addiction system is certainly social care centres. Centres such as these should be tasked with acting preventively but also curatively, i.e. helping young consumers. In addition, centre experts have to intervene on the basis of police and state attorney's notices and implement the measures imposed by the court, one of the important guidelines for changing the attitudes of addicts towards psychoactive substances. The task should be to help them create a new, better-quality lifestyle. However, reading reports of 7665 addicts who first started treatment for addiction in 2011, only 3.6% and 276 of them ended up in treatment thanks to the intervention of the Social Labour Centre. On the other hand, the family only sent 8.3% of the addicts, or 639 of them, to treatment. The largest number of addicts still decide to treat themselves, so when it is evident that they no longer function and can no longer, which is just another indication that institutions no matter how much national strategies and action plans have included in solving the problem, the detection of the problem at which the earlier stage is still these interventions on the invisible branches. We have heard that the strategy has been modelled on, here are the high European standards, but I would like to warn this opportunity and the new legal drugs of the dragons consumed by more and more young people in Croatia, and I think that in the implementation of the strategy, and action plans, especially with the Ministry of Interior and certain legal regulations that we bring to this high-level Parliament from breaking to criminal law, we should pay great attention to these phenomena in our society. Namely, some of the new drugs are advertised by some of the Zagreb nightclubs and cafes that offer guests the outdoor enjoyment of this legal drug, to call it, in the family atmosphere of the club. Otherwise, it can be obtained legally for 99 kuna. It is a mixture of dry exotic plants of commercial name magic dragon which, combined with tobacco, smokes more and more young people in Croatia. Dry plant packages with a freshener declaration of space are sold legally at a price of 99 kuna, and can unfortunately be ordered via the Internet. Thus, this legal drug in the Zagreb area can also be ordered with delivery. They advertise it, so these nightclubs and cafes that offer guests the opportunity to enjoy that legal drug. Various mixtures of plants sold as a means of aromatising the space of young smoke because they have the same effect as cannabis. That's what they're called. The problem is that their consumption paves the way to addiction. Some EU countries have banned such products, namely the emergence of new psychoactive substances and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of Croatia, which has only given a guide to alert the public to its adverse effects. The police, therefore, are powerless because the product as it is sold does not contain substances on the list of intoxicating drugs, so there is no basis for further treatment. Otherwise, Germany, Austria, Luxemburg and France so-called Spice products have already been placed under legal control because of potential health risks, and other EU members are also considering it. So here's only in this presentation to the representatives of the Ministry of Health, to take care of both that and that, with all those large lists that we have about harmful substances that we can't use, maybe even these substances can be found on these lists so that the police, or the ministry can act in a preventive way, or in a criminal way. Several times here, when he was a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, we talked about how much a police officer in the community, as far as drug addiction is concerned, the consumption of particularly light drugs would be desirable for all of our black statistics to be further reduced and that would also be one of the means of preventive action. On the interior ministry's pages, however, there is still a Community Police Project, but there is no evidence that there is not enough money in the state budget to cover all national strategies and any action plans that we bring as such in quality and financial terms. And no matter how many states and counties and municipalities and cities have faced the problem of addiction and further we need to be aware that we need to involve more and more NGOs in prevention of addiction, that these governmental organisations that, as such, submit money-based programmes, we need to monitor from the beginning to the end of a specific programme, that the funds to NGOs should not be given once in one year, and then we say that the money is no longer available because if there is a particular prevention especially with addicts, the treatment of addicts does not last one semester, it does not last a year, the treatment of addicts takes much, much longer. It lasts much longer and the treatment of the family because addiction is a family disease, not an individual’s disease. And then we should think about all these things very well because NGOs precisely because of these situations come into problems where, in one year with a certain programme and the amount of certain funds, a certain number of users put on the treatment which institutionally, which home treatment, but next year in the lack of funds, this addict is on his own again, the family is left to itself and unfortunately institutions that should take care of these people at that point do not show much interest because this addict, or this family, is going to be treated in another institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18806	Thank you, too. The next club is club IDS and respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18807	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives of '96. I read it somewhere for years, so the first strategy was shown. So, from the first day since this strategy was presented to this day I've been speaking for this Assembly speaker, but where are we today? The problem in 2012 is certainly far greater than it was in '96, which is clearly not surprising. And man really asks himself what to do when it comes to this evil and how it simply eradicates it. All our strategies so far have been excellent, but what is worth to you when from year to year this problem in Croatia is either in every county or every city more and more pronounced. And now let the phrases go, but the fact is that every year young people die, the fact is that every year our families are being destroyed and the fact is also that by one point these young people are just running away from help. Just today in one newspaper, "The Morning List," yes, never mind, here's Mother Snow White: "My daughter got her drugs in class and gave her class. Now they're threatening to cut her throat and burn her. My daughter was threatened with death, so I went to class because the principal couldn't. She coldly told me, "I know they threatened her and last week. Go to the police.", etc., etc. What is the point of this strategy in some way is said in the very introduction of this preface, so it is said that the national drug policy needs to be implemented through health, social, educational, repressive systems and civil society organisations and public media through various programmes, approaches, etc., etc. We know that the number of addicts in Croatia is growing from year to year. What deeply saddens me is what Mrs. Tyrelli said is that Istria is at the top of that monster, if not at the very top. And do you know the same thing as sad? That the counties rather than increase the prevention funds due to financial imperceptibility, they reduce the funds year by year. When I talk about counties, I mean cities and municipalities. I always argue that it is better to build one rotor less in one county, and for those few million kunas to increase prevention in the fight against that evil. I know that's not how elections are won, maybe elections are won by rotors, not by fighting drugs, but I know that's how elections will be won soon because addiction is the same disease and it should be solved. It doesn't always have to be a shame, it can happen under quotes "almost everyone" happens, normal kids, I don't think it can happen to us, it doesn't just happen to others it can happen to our families etc., etc. What's tragic, which we talked about yesterday, is that individuals were buying from that crime-mill information from those judicial officers who were employed at USKOK and preventing almost every crime, especially when it comes to drugs. Similarly, gentlemen have been going on at these local levels. On the side of the 79th of this National Strategy, these tables are given here, and among other things, it is said that, I deliberately apostrophe Istria, that persons treated for abuse of psychotropic drugs and rates on 100,000 inhabitants aged 15 to 64 are said Istrian county 804 addicts, a rate of 100,000 residents 483 which is not at the top but at the top of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I am convinced that prevention in Istria may be more developed than elsewhere when we talk about this treatment. Is that so I don't know, but once again I'm going to say that you are capable of fighting this monster in every way possible, and not as if it prevails in some perhaps opinion in Parliament that we should legalise marijuana. Here on page 41, it says: "The frequency of disagreement with people should be allowed to take cannabis, growing with age, with men more prone to women having a positive view of what it means to be realized, 22.5% of men, versus 14.1%) of women. We are 2. It is said that only 2.3% of respondents indicate that they agree that people should also be allowed to take heroin." Enough, this brave qualification or finding, but it's probably not far from the truth. My personal position clearly, not legalizing marijuana, but let the police listen less to the ones they don't need, let them stop less for 10 or 15 km faster driving, and let them focus more on solving these cases. Not drugs and dots. It is said here and there that children from 16 years of age should vote, let's say in local elections, slowly with that, "let the children be children" by 18 years, they will come very quickly, then let them vote, let them be elected, let's not try to like the solutions that no one knows or almost no one else is going to break into our heads, not to us, but to the state, more specifically to the heads of those we should care about. In Croatia, we see that 39 thousand crimes are the abuse of drugs, which is only 10% reported, it is said. We all know that the 39 thousand crimes are actually some tip of the ice. On page 8, this drug abuse prevention strategy, among other things, is said: "In Croatia, too, developed prevention of abuse of drug addiction and testing procedures for drug and alcohol employees." which is regulated by the general rules on work, etc. etc. I think we should definitely extend that to school kids, to colleges. Perhaps that would make it easier for you to get to know, or perhaps that would make it easier for you to get to know the problem that the Republic of Croatia is dealing with. In particular, an example of the fight against drugs should be given to public persons, whether they are in sport, whether they are in politics, whether they are actors, whether singers are like this or not, in one word they should give an example. I'm also afraid that the more pronounced the crisis, the bigger the drug problem. I get that impression, I don't have to be right. The less money, the more drugs, the richer society, clearly that doesn't mean there's less drugs on the street, but there's more of us every day of that drug. And you just can't see the end of it. The only question is whose child is going to come to that in some environment, the question is whose family will be destroyed because of it, and the question is what damage this society will cause and how much it will cost the community. What only the Penal Code in 2004 also solved well, that drug addicts and alcohol addicts can be determined to rehabilitate in these therapeutic communities, or health institutions. Of course I'm against, I'm going to say once again, legalizing any form of drugs, easy, hard, but we all agree, too, so we don't need to criminalize kids for one joint. There you should be careful, there you should not show your children to criminals, there in some way you should help work with your parents and so on. But the fact is that this drug problem is between us, I didn't know that in Zagreb's cafes there's almost legal stuff that can come to, I don't know, 90 and so many kunas isn't even that small for those who make 3 or 4 thousand kunas, but I know that around the playground, that around the schools from Pula, and then unfortunately there are more and more needles. We have on page 11, 12 of this strategy said what are the principles on which this fight rests, so it states: the principle of constitutionality, legality, protection of human rights, the principle of child protection and that the main objectives of the national strategy are to prevent, reduce drug abuse, reduce the extent of drug abuse, reduce the availability of drugs at all levels and all forms of drug abuse crime, improve, build, network the drug abuse system and fight addiction at national and local level. I'm going to say once again that I'm in favour of testing, that the local bodies tend to this monster, to discuss it on the councils. Because as the people and fish would say, it's clear from tail to head, it smells like head to tail, so somehow, the problem or the problem of addiction should be faced as locally, in one word as low as possible. When it starts to deal with the state, Parliament, Government, MPs, so it's almost late, well, the state is there, it's locally present, that through the police, in the area of the state the police, through customs, customs is engaged, through education, good education is in the jurisdiction of the local self-government state, the judiciary is in the domain of the state. So without a state, no local action can be done, but local self-government also has an unforgiving place in the fight against drugs. What are the objectives of the strategy, I mentioned, these 4.5, is a clear emphasis and always on young people, on young people, on young people, but something else about how to resocialize addicts, how to reintegration them into the working community, how to include them in the work world? And there is no job for those who are in a permanent working relationship, who are employed. On page 24, there are some measures about this, but if we fail, if we fail to reintegrate these young people into the world of work all these strategies will be just a dead letter on paper. We're going to talk, the police are going to "hit" under quotes, unfortunately after those kids with one joint or I don't know what, the courts are going to punish these people, the big dudes would say "Istrians won't touch them, employers will shut people off from work, not the same ones they're taking in, and therefore they should come up with special stimulating taxes I don't know what measures for those who will be taken off the street into the world of work. So, to receive how to receive into the world people who've been through hell of a drug. I know that someone will say or someone else's children so we're exemplary, and now under quotes, "we can wait" for these others to be hired. Although I don't think we should look at these things that way. I know that in all these situations the decision will be made not by politicians, not by Parliament, by employers, and in order for those young people to be admitted to work, but in a way they have to be stimulated, they have to be under quotes in some way "rewarded" to see these people into the world of work to get them off the street. If this were to be considered, perhaps the problem of addiction would be somewhat smaller, although I fear that from year to year, this monster in Croatia will carry more and more young people instead of simply returning to work or some other activities. For the end, what do you say? I absolutely support the strategy, but I'm afraid that next year will be a problem of addiction and greater, not smaller, and that's why it's worth a real commitment to that problem, but we also need to be honest and admit that none of the current National Strategy was bad, almost everything was excellent, but as in that joke of surgery, the patient ended up as it ended. That's the problem we'll be facing for a long, long time. And it is good to discuss the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and action plans to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia at least once a year because it is possible to send a message to the public in this way that will not only stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18808	Thank you very much. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18809	Dear Mr. President, you said not to criminalize kids, not drugs, etc. But this doesn't criminalize the kids, it kind of pulled me back to replicate. What's this about? You are a prisoner of your coalition and you are in some way a prisoner of that somehow let's call in Croatia a left option even though you don't know what that means anymore. Why? I'm saying because of that, I'm about not to criminalize the kids, but if this lady you listed from the Morning List said that her kid at school had to get into the drug class, the police should make contact with that kid and hence, and thus start fighting drugs. If we don't start fighting drugs there's no fight at the top or against these major criminals. And how it's gonna start when the late Racan says I was smoking joints, drugs. It's nothing. You're obviously kind to this question. It's not drugs, let's decriminalize the mild forms of drugs. We will not punish those for personal use. So what are you talking about? How are we gonna fight drugs? And on the other hand, you say I don't believe in God, your president says I'm an atheist, etc. So we're creating a general situation where practically drugs are allowed. Even these children, gentlemen, you are proposing a law now, it is said that they will have to pay fines if two young people are anointed in a car in Split's Žnjan and Linic will introduce taxes only drugs will be allowed. And what kind of drug fight are you talking about? Diving some crocodile tears, rebelling that the government has not given a million more or a million less for some programs that are de facto not getting any results. Only a family education gets results.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18810	Thank you very much. Time's up. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18811	Mr. Marasovicu, I am a free man, no one's prisoner. The truth God is a member of the left coalition that I truly support. If you want me to tell you honestly I've never seen a joint let alone smoke, let alone that I would in any way, in any way be to legalize any easy or difficult forms of drugs. But your stand and what you've mixed up in the end has included God himself as if he's giving up a man who's on heavy drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18812	Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18813	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's me, like Cain, I've never tried either drugs or easy or heavy, but I have to tell Mr. Cain that I agree with you that it's actually this report that's well-assembled and what's listed in it, which is data on the number of treated etc., it's actually an ice santa, and that's what Cain says is in progress and numerical and every other one, regardless of what it says here that the total number of treated addicts is smaller in 2011 than in 2010, but when you look at the second data, and Cain mentioned the therapeutic community then says nicely: "In 2011, therefore, the number of newly treated in these therapeutic communities has increased by 40%." What does that mean? So, that the number of those who moved away in that mile, in the drug industry, is a terrible increase and then we wonder if we have succeeded in preventing and all the other forms of combating this, this monster, this evil, if the number of those who treat the therapeutic communities increases even 40%. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18814	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18815	Did we succeed? I don't know. Maybe no government will, but every government is fighting that monster. But I agree with you, Mr. Grubisic, that this is the tip of the ice santa, that the real problem lies beneath the surface of the water, and that there is actually this problem, 7, 8 or I don't know how many times more pronounced, as much as that ice is simply immersed in the depth of the ocean or some water. I am afraid that we will not succeed fully, but if this Parliament simply shows by its example the will to fight it, if order is made in some institutions that this Parliament can oversee, I think that many, many parents will simply be relieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18816	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going through clubs, a SDP club and a respected representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18817	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the honourable representatives of the motionary. Here, today we are discussing a problem that is actually a modern problem, a problem of global character. In developed countries it existed long before we did, and in our places it has taken a wave in the last twenty years. Why do I say 20 years? In fact, 20 years ago, our country had just experienced a major political change that also led to a rise in standards, but also a change in the way of thinking. Consumer mentality has become our daily life, a profit race, too high targets, and drugs should have been a means to help overcome these difficult situations. However, drug consumption has also ceased to be only for those rich who could afford it, since the race for profit includes those poor or poorer who thus become drug dealers and consumers. Simplifiedly, one of them was using to work, and others were working to get high. The extent of this problem certainly speaks for itself a great deal of the fact that 205 million people in the world consumed some kind of drug in 2010 and 25 million addicts in the world. Our country has a very favourable position, when it comes to tourism opportunities, traffic, economics, but unfortunately, that position has just been recognised by those who are involved in the drug business. The additional problem is also the Internet that destroys all borders and bridges what has so far been insurmountable, so we have an extended supply of drugs and that way. The 2011 report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse shows that the number of addicts infected with HIV or hepatitis is reduced, which is certainly good, due to good prevention through health institutions, the work of associations, and I also stress the work of the Red Cross and the work of religious institutions. The number of homeless addicts, prostitute addicts, more motivation and interest of treated addicts has been observed, especially for the completion of early secondary education and in general all types of education and requalification. So here we have some positive shifts, in any case and that growth curve of the number of addicts is no longer so steep in the last few years, but that should not be everyone's reason for pleasure and migrating because the number of addicts is still increasing year after year. It's a problem that can't be eradicated, but it can at least be reduced to some socially acceptable risk. Of course, good coordination between all institutions dealing with this problem is extremely important, so the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Health, Education, Home Affairs, Justice. Here I can say that I want to live in a society where a child or a young person who is well informed about everything he carries will never want to try drugs. Of course, the importance of a positive family and school environment should be emphasized. In addition to everything that has been used in the drug fight strategy, I must especially stress the importance of school programmes, here is a colleague on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science said about it, namely health education in schools, I consider it an extremely important segment in order for the children there to hear all about drugs, in order to be able to recognize in time and resist temptation. Unfortunately, today very often, children get the first information from drug dealers, of course, the dealer will bagatelize what drugs mean, bagatelize the consequences of drugs. So the dealer certainly won't tell the child that, for example, Taking each tablet of ecstasya may be a Russian roulette, so that no one can say with certainty what will cause one tablet of ecstasya to the brain or body in general. The dealer certainly won't tell the child that long-term drug use will lead to complete mental and mental breakdown and financial. Why am I saying that school is exactly the right place to get information? In fact, here I can tell myself through my childhood, through my schooling, I've never had a situation where someone offered me drugs. I didn't even see her. I've never seen what an ecstasy pill looks like, what marijuana or heroin looks like except possibly on TV. Thus, these trials in the childhood of many parents today were neither present nor present, and they do not adequately identify the drugs, nor the clinical picture that drugs cause. And it is logical, too, that most parents, with good will and desire, will not be able to respond well to how a child is directed, counseled, and how to identify him if the child has possibly taken drugs. That is why I find schools extremely important, and I find it extremely positive that this topic was introduced officially through medical education, not that it was more than ever left to the enthusiasm of some directors or professors who were interested or doctors who were parents of a child who attended school and gave some lectures to inform children. I also find it extremely important for children to hear about other addictions. I also think of smoking and alcohol that have been consumed in the Republic of Croatia since 2007 by 84% of young people in the last 12 months by alcohol, 43% by drink at least once. So, we often fool ourselves when we think that today's kids online, television is learning everything they need. The Internet can be a good source of information, but also disinformation. So I think it's important for the kids to hear that she's the color pill that someone offered them at the party might be the beginning of a fatal path, to hear that drug abuse is actually a chronic suicide attack, that most drug addicts don't experience 50 years. I think it is important for children to enter wings like – using the brain, not drugs; be smart don't start and so on. I find another segment extremely important, and these are the media. Since they have a strong impact on the younger population, they can help fight drugs in the prevention of highly interesting messages and by placing accurate information on the fight against drugs. What I think is good in this strategy is the fact that enough time has passed since the first strategy that was adopted 11 years ago, so objectively all the gaps so far, the weak link, or places where the strategy needs to be further elaborated. For example, the need for greater decentralisation is mentioned in many segments of our society and so on in this. A greater role of the county commissions is needed, better co-operation between local and state institutions is needed. The non-governmental sector has many prevention programmes, I am personally addressed to many of them very high-quality programmes, but the need for better quality assessment of NGOs' programmes to finance the budget is seen, indeed, those of the best quality and best. The strategy also cites the need to increase the number of experts in working with prison and community addicts. So it's not just about prevention, it's about the strategy, and it's about already existing addicts. So the room for improvement still has and we can't say that as a society we've done everything even though it's done a lot of things. Given the improvements this strategy offers, I am sure that the data we will be reading in future reports and strategies will be even better, so the club will support the SDP's proposed strategy as well as the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse for 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18818	Thank you, too. We've registered two replicas to your exhibit. The first is the replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18819	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Borzan, you have well noticed that the race for profit as you have said or earned a lot of evil in terms of developing a number of addicts, so smoking, alcohol, drugs. However, very few are in our Parliament but also in society in general talking about another profit race that he said might be a worse monster than this, and that's insane. So that's what's called Latin, right, that's a gambling addiction and betting that's also affected our youngsters, and it's mostly minors. This addiction is almost the same if not worse destruction and family, leading to various disorders, property delicacies, devastation, psychological problems, psychiatric problems and even suicides, and here we have never had a report of this addiction in the House that affects some data and the latest knowledge of about 2% or over 2% of the population of the state. And two or more percent of the population, that's 100,000 people. 100,000 people got infected, infected to say gambling and betting. We will never get a report in the House because it is precisely those who earn profit and profit that they do not care about either prevention or treatment of this addiction, and it must indeed be called addiction. And it's very or even more dangerous than this addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18820	Thank you, too. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18821	Here's a respected colleague, Grubisic, I agree, but I would add another one, and that is a dependence on the internet that is increasingly widespread. So today's world is changing at such a rate that simply society, parents, therefore the family environment, the school unfortunately does not arrive to react well enough. Or I often get the impression that in the fight against drugs and against all other addictions, we're always a bit of a cough because it's always what you say, which you don't care about, about prevention, about protection, so it's always kind of a step ahead, like every thief who always finds a way to pick a lock, and here, unfortunately. But here's why we're here to see where there's still room for improvement and this strategy is definitely one of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18822	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18823	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague Borzan actually said a lot of things exactly. What I answered for the replica is actually a reference to something she said was crucial good information. I wouldn't quite agree with that, because good information is important, but in no case is enough. The best example is actually the addiction to cigarettes that you also mentioned, where absolutely there's good information about the entire population, there's definitely no one around, I think who is, for example, in our country, who doesn't know that smoking hurts, so we still have a situation that every 3 adults smoke. Therefore, good information is important, but it is not alone. It is crucial, and I fully agree with you, and education in schools, as well as raising in families is very important, because it will be possible to act preventively. And I'm so glad that in this house, too, it's stopped sending messages that are completely wrong, which is about easy drugs like something harmless, and heavy drugs like something that falls out of the sky. We all know that, it starts with easy drugs, that almost no one starts with heavy drugs, but starts with easy drugs and then, of course, entering that world, half world, etc. He's slowly moving on to heavy drugs. And it's unfortunately that path that destroys many people. So, of course, we all need to take it together, and I think of a clue to it is this strategy, all we can do against this devastating, execution of today's time, but I say again, it's important to send the right messages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18824	Thank you very much, Vice President. We also have a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18825	Dear academic Rainer, I agree that it is not only important information, but I am here, as in all other segments of health care, always. And I think good prevention is the key to many, the solution to many problems in our society. I'd like to take another look at the other part of your replica, I'm afraid it may be created from your words or from some other colleagues, not just today, but generally in the Parliament, that the SDP advocates decriminalisation in terms of the legalization of light drugs. We never talked about it, so the only thing that was mentioned by colleague Cain on behalf of the club was that a kid who found himself with the only joint not to be made a hard criminal, but to be seen in him by a child who needed help. It's the only thing, but we don't share drugs on light and heavy in terms of legalization, so now we think marijuana is okay, and heroin isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18826	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. HNS Club and Honorable Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18827	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, I would like to apologize, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the honourable representatives of the ministry. When a man reads the strategy, or at least it seemed to me after I read the strategy that is a key problem that we are facing and which in some ways the strategy recognises is the coordination, coordination of all those stakeholders, participants in this anti-drug abuse process. It seems so obvious to me that at least 20% of all the indicators in the strategy are in some way related to cooperation, coordination of various bodies, various institutions, various individuals, various organisations involved or should be involved in this process. And actually when you're reading who's all involved in the drug fight process then it's as if you've made one list of state, public, local, regional and regional administrations and self-governments in Croatia, because they should actually be all involved and they're all involved and it's a reasonable approach. However, since we live in the real world then, in me personal, and in my colleagues from the HNS club, it is quite an inconvenience because we are taught by experience, we know that one of the key problems of the functioning of the Croatian state at all levels is precisely incoordination, chronic incoordination and poor co-operation between various bodies and various levels of state, public, local, regional administration and self-government. So what we think first is that the action plan that follows on the basis of this strategy needs special attention to this particular problem of coordinating all those who should participate in this process. I would even say that we have to do, in addition to the strategy against drug abuse, we have to make a strategy against the incoordination of the government's body in that fight, because without it we won't do anything, we won't move one step further. What I'm saying also confirms the evaluation of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs, which the strategy mentions, which is just saying that the weakest point of our fight against drugs is communication and cooperation between institutions. So that's something that the strategy recognizes, it's something that the promoter recognizes, but it's something that we all here need to keep an eye on, because we know how this communication and coordination between the body, various authorities and administrations in Croatia works. And this is about a particularly sensitive problem, especially sensitive fates, so not getting into it at all, it's clear to everyone what it's about and why it's important. Since I have already mentioned the evaluation of the European Centre, the second problem that this evaluation mentions is the problem of the prison system. So again in one serious problem for Croatian citizens and Croatian society, we are actually facing a serious problem that we know to be a serious problem in this country, which is the situation in the prison system and in prisons the general overcrowding and sub-capacitation of our prisons certainly represents a huge obstacle to any treatment of addiction, rehabilitation, rehabilitation of prisoners, and here it is, of course, always about additional problems because in the prison system there are people who most often have other disorders or occasionally, or often have other behavioral disorders, especially when it comes to perpetrators of serious crime. So, and this is something that both the strategy and the Action Plan must certainly be particularly concentrated, which is the problem of treating addicts who are in the prison system or who are perpetrators of easier or harder, does not matter, criminal acts. The problem Croatia has is this unfortunate Balkan route and the fact that we are a country with an extremely long border relative to the size of the territory and there will also be a big problem with coordination. Our border will certainly be at the moment when the EU's external border becomes under additional pressure to enter the EU market. And there will also need a serious and large coordination of all activities, and of course in this segment a special effort of the repressive system to get drugs into Croatia either as a final destination, whether as a transit country reduces and stops. What the strategy mentions, and colleagues have already said about this, is that the number of addicts on the rise in Croatia, however, is not quite clear, and I hope that one part of this increase is, in fact, by the fact that more and more addicts are in some kind of treatment. So, to register more and more addicts as such and then result in this statistical defeat which is in any case good and should continue to work on it because addiction is a long-term disease, which is treated long and which often or very often needs to be constantly monitored to make sure that we have cured it or that we have at least prevented the person in drug consumption. However, speaking of growth and statistics, what I would like to point out here is that marijuana is the most consumed in the world, according to the data given by both the strategy and the report, the most in Croatia is consumed marijuana. But what needs to be kept in mind is that the greatest damage in terms of the psychological consequences of the consumer itself in terms of the consequences of his family and in terms of the various other consequences of society that the greatest damage causes me to call it or not to call it heavy drugs, but let's call them intoxicated, so starting with heroin. And it seems to me, and it seems to us at the HNS club that it should be in some way an indicator of the direction in which the fight against drugs should go in this country. So that we don't see a tree from the forest and bury the system with a bunch of people and a bunch of cases that there are a lot of because it's something most used, and then we don't use those resources to fight what actually creates the greatest damage for individuals and society, and maybe it's not the most widespread phenomenon within this segment of drug consumption. Just one statistic. So, 2010. 82% of all treated addicts in Croatia took opiates and opiates also caused the largest, far most deaths especially if we are talking about directly related deaths, so drug overdoses. Another important aspect that we in HNS would like to highlight as the priority of this strategy is prevention and education. In this regard, I would especially like to emphasise when I talk about education not only of those who are potential drug users but of all those who are involved in the anti-drug process. And here I return a little bit to one known problem of state and public administration in the Republic of Croatia, and this is a lack of professional personnel. I give my right hand to the hive that colleagues and colleagues involved in the fight against drugs will also confirm that the system lacks professional personnel, that there is a lack of opportunities for education, that at the end of the day, and that it is particularly sensitive here that there is no unification of knowledge, information and methods used along and across the entire line of the system, especially because this system includes, apart from the body of state and public administration, civil society organisations, so NGOs, include religious communities and various other organisations. Therefore, education and prevention must also go to the education of all those involved in any way in the process of combating drug abuse. So the strategy itself recognises this problem that I was talking about because in one part it stresses therefore that further efforts should be made to improve the quality of services and programmes implemented in the NGO sector, and we in the HNS seem to be one of the more serious priorities. As far as prevention itself is concerned, it is carried out occasionally, segmented and without effective evaluations. It's a quote from the strategy and it's something that needs to be changed absolutely immediately the same second of the day today. It is especially important to prevent and educate young people, of course, when it comes to drugs, when it comes to their dangers. However, I would like to point out one more thing here. It's very important when we educate young people, when we do prevention programs with young people, it's important what these programs look like, what people do, what rhetoric they use, what examples they use, what dangers they list as crucial, are they able to reach a person of 12, 13, 14, 15 years. Because if we happen to have the argument used, that the examples used, that ultimately the technology itself used in this prevention and education is causing the laughter and ridicule of those to whom we are talking, then we will have a counterproduct, not that we will have the effect of preventing and preventing education, but we will have the effect that those who think that we should prevent and prevent it turn out to be ridiculous. So it's something that's also particularly important to keep in mind. We know well what generation or unfortunately we don't know well, it's probably more right, we don't know exactly what generation we're dealing with at the moment when we're talking to people of 12,13,14,15 years, and that's why these particularly sensitive stories need to be specially studioed and cleverly prepared in a segment of prevention, education and education. But regardless, prevention and education are certainly a key priority in this process, that's what the strategy tells us, and we agree with that, but of course it tells us common sense, that's what experience tells us. Investment in prevention is certainly money invested, and speaking of money, what needs to be kept in mind is that world drug trafficking is moving at an annual level approximately in the oil trade range. So, we don't stand a chance, not us, the United States has no chance, if that fight isn't maximum rational, maximum coordinated, because we're fighting an enemy who has all the money, all the resources of this world, and there's nothing to lose. He's completely beyond all categories of society at the beginning. So in order for us to even be able to fight, we need to know what the priorities are, that means that the limited resources available to us need to be dealt with rationally, that means that we can't bury the system either repressive, not judicial, not educational, not health-old people who have smoked a joint, we can't because then we don't have any room, no money, and we can't deal with the problems that cause the strongest damage, and these are opiates and addictions to opiates. So, although in this strategy, and of course it is fully justified from the point of view of the promoter, he did not mention the termologically easy drugs, heavy drugs, or any distinction between drugs in this regard, however, should be kept in mind that there are drugs that are used massively and cause very little damage. And many Western countries enter the category of socially acceptable risk, I'm talking about marijuana, even in some countries its health benefits have been recognised, so it can be obtained in some situations and in some cases with some diagnosis, in some specific variants and recipes. And there are drugs that show up statistically much less, when we talk about scope and scope, but which, as far as the damage is concerned, cause catastrophic consequences, and in our opinion, that's a priority to deal with. So, we at the HNS club will, of course, support this strategy, absolutely support the efforts mentioned in it, but we believe that the fight against drugs should be based on the next three pillars. First, coordination and rational use of all the resources available to us. Without that, we don't have to do anything else or start, so until the proposings and all those involved establish system coordination, they don't have to do anything else, because without a coordinated system, that fight is lost in the beginning. Second, education and prevention as the best way of wide-ranging population, especially in a potentially risky population of young people. Both here and in the context of the budget, this should be kept in mind in the context of the programme being carried out, and in the context of the end of this interdisciplinary, multidisciplinary approach discussed in the strategy. And third, the concentration on opiates and other drugs that cause severe addiction and psychophysical effects on consumption as a priority in that part of treatment of addiction. Here, colleagues and colleagues so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18828	Thank you, Your Honor. We have 3 replicas on your display. The first is the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18829	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear fellow, I told my colleague Cain that he is a prisoner of political, one option or coalition, and I don't want to offend you, God forbid, you have the right to your opinion, so you brought him up, but I don't think you understand the matter, and I am deeply convinced of that. As one footnote, I don't know what you HNS co-ordinated, you're like big coordinators. It seems to me in this government that everything that you've caught is decoordinated and you've kind of broken into parade parades and you've brought down some promises for a beautiful future. But let's get back to the subject. So, you... Let's act when there's heroin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Colloman's late, it doesn't mean anything in terms of prevention, and also in terms of therapy very little, it's a done deal, then we're saving what's being saved. The prevention should be directed at the time of people's lives when they are in primary and high school, when our dealers are in the schoolyards, the prevention should be directed when they take marijuana. We should ban marijuana, we should, means ban and prevent easy opiates that lead to severe opiates. That's where we disagree, okay? That's your opinion of what you said, but I mean what I said. And you understand nothing, and there will be no success.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18830	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18831	... If it were, I wouldn't go into it as much as I understand it, but my colleague Marasovic didn't understand what I said. [[Specially enabled.]] So, prevention absolutely as far as all narcotics are concerned, it's not at all controversial, I was talking about that the concentration of the health system of treatment and the repressive system and the judicial system should focus on heavy drugs on opiates, to avoid the expression of heavy drugs if we're not going to use it. Secondly, science has not agreed whether consumption of light drugs necessarily leads to consumption of heavy drugs. Statistically speaking, it's not safe. Because in the world, you have a huge amount of people who use easy drugs, hugely compared to the amount of people who use heavy drugs. So just because something happened before, and something happened afterwards doesn't mean that this followed up as a consequence of this before. The consumption of heavy drugs is most often the result of some mental, social and other conditions in the individual, and it did not happen because he tried marijuana and then went on heroin rather than happened because it was a need for some altered state of consciousness that resulted from drug consumption. We can also say that all heroin consumption before smoking cigarettes or drinking water from the water. This does not necessarily mean that they consume heroin because they drank water from the plumbing or because they smoked cigarettes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18832	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18833	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You said a few things about drug welfare, a little harmfulness, the health efficiency of easy drugs as I understand it, then you listed three pillars or your suggestions to prevent and coordinate and concentrate on opiates. The addicts don't start with a needle, they start with a joint. And you said another very important thing that institutions aren't coordinated, that they don't have enough knowledge or expertise. This is the third National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. I believe and believe that these people who have done this, and according to the report of this National Strategy, are highly skilled and have sufficient knowledge. What is the problem today, both in the world and in Croatia, is so-called Redesigned drugs that all those dealing with this problem are facing, and it's very difficult to detect these things. That's why I think you're wrong because you didn't say one very important thing in those three pillars, and that's the legal obligation of parents to raise them. That's where it's all going. I won't say from conception, but I mean it from conception, so on, your education is the key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18834	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18835	That you have a colleague, Babic, absolutely right. In this whole story, certainly, especially in the story of prevention, education is important parents. My colleague Tyrelli talked about it, so parents need to know what's going on and what's going on and I totally agree and I don't have what to say or add or take away. As far as professional people in the state and public administration are concerned, it's absolutely professional people. It seems visible to me from both the strategy and the report and from some other moves that have been made here that people who do so are professional. What seems to me to be the problem, and I am absolutely convinced that there are too few experts. So that's it. We need to strengthen the resources, personnel resources of the state, public, regional administrations and self-government precisely in this direction, so that at all levels we have enough professional people who are able to deal with this problem and with all other problems that we face as a state because we generally have a problem with insufficiently professional personnel in public administration. But it's not a specific problem just here, but here it may be particularly problematic because it's highly sensitive cases that directly affect human fate, families. So there perhaps we should be further aware of the importance of the speed of change in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18836	Thank you very much. And a third replica and a respected representative of the Sun's Head. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18837	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you told your colleague Coleman that some drugs work well. All drugs are beneficial, that's why they're manufactured. Because you want to be high, because you want to reach another level and that's why you're eventually called the same name, which is junky – a junkie or whatever you want. And I would disagree with you if science hadn't agreed, as you said, with that finding. You don't need science to agree, it's enough to look at your parents, your families, and they agree that today you need 20 kunas for a joint, for example. 20 kuna is one pack of cigarettes. Because of a pack of cigarettes, no one came under attack to break into someone's apartment, rob someone, kill someone. So, one joint of 20 kunas, the recession is for everyone, so we can tell them who are selling drugs and who are getting more available, and that's what you're talking about about those conditioned milder forms of drugs that are increasingly available to our children and who rarely have a sandwich or something from their parents' allowance that they use, don't kid themselves, just for these purposes. About prevention and consequences, I'm going to talk about ways on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18838	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18839	So, thank you, Mr. President. I never said that all drugs have beneficial, or actually you said that all drugs have a beneficial effect – I can't agree with you, I don't think all drugs have a beneficial effect. We know well that there are drugs that have a catastrophic effect on the psyche, on the physical state of the individual and on society as such. So, I'm afraid I can't agree with you or that was what I said. Well, neither did I. I did not say that all drugs have a beneficial effect, I said that some countries in certain diagnosis under certain conditions in specific variants, so not those used, which you buy on the street and put in the joint recognized the beneficial effects of marijuana and can be obtained on the recipe. That was all I said and that's a fact, that's a fact. So it's not something we can discuss too much now. As far as I'm concerned, and even if I wanted to turn this debate into a world-wide debate about easy drugs, which I might not, but a comparison of a joint and a pack of cigarettes, so we could discuss here that one joint is less harmful in every respect than one pack of cigarettes, for the organism, for the psychic part of the organism. So we can discuss it and discuss it, and besides that, and that's probably something we can see together, we can look at a little statistics of offenses and crimes, but I give a lot of my own money in a bet, that no one goes to rob movies and shops because of any joint. So what we have a problem with always in this debate is to mention the consequences of opiate consumption and heavy addiction to opiates in the debate on marijuana, light drugs, or whatever we want to call them. So it's a mistake we shouldn't all be doing together, so we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18840	Thank you very much. Before we continue the discussion by clubs, the notification shall comply with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in 10.47 minutes have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Secondly, please agree on this united debate alone had 8 other clubs reported, so four other clubs and 18 individual debates, so please agree that today's session plan will be free of lunch, so the continuity of the debate? Thank you very much. Next is the respected representative Ivan Grubisic on behalf of independent representatives, the Independent Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18841	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the ministry. I'm taking the floor to discuss this issue, about the fight, about the national drug control program. As far as I can tell from the debate, it's not just about drugs, it's about other addictions, and there's definitely something to say about them. So he'd like to expand this to a national programme to combat disease addiction without just staying on drugs. What my colleague Grubisic said, new forms and added by Mrs Biljana Borzana, new forms of addiction are emerging, increasing and threatening that we can freely conclude that Croatia is a nation or citizens of Croatia, that they are a large hospital and that we are a sick society, that we are a sick society and that we tend to deepen this crisis. In my opinion, it can be concluded from some statistics, so it is concluded that we have a million and a half smokers in Croatia, that we have about 300 thousand registered alcoholics in Croatia, that there are about 120 to 150 thousand registered addicts in Croatia. And we just heard that the gambling addict has almost 100 grand. If someone in the family is sick, then the whole family is conditioned and we can conclude in those three, all times three at least, that we are a mentally rather troubled nation and a troubled people. With indicators not indicating a reduction in these risks, but an increase. Here it is also mentioned that education is needed, I would say the education of educators is primarily the education of educators at all levels of the family, to school institutions and other institutions, education of educators, sick parents or addicts of any kind themselves generate a sick offspring. Education of educators should not be left to the will of individuals or institutions, but should be coordinated, I agree, and should be a persistent and long-term education of educators. I had a seminar in the early 1990s in Split for educational staff and I know that the topic was just the education of educators, and teachers were invited to teach social sciences. They agreed that this was important in the transition from one way to another, we say democratically. But this is not about a disease that has affected an area like Croatia, it's about civilization trends, civilization trends, and civilization trends we can't stop, it's one comparison, a metaphor that "Klika can't be stopped by a broom." So the same civilization trends cannot be stopped by an annual debate about the problems of addiction that are pressing us. That is why it is necessary, because Croatia really last week was on one round table or one seminar with the President of the Republic, Croatia is extinct, Croatia is sick, Croatia is extinct. Where do I see the addiction problem? I see the problem that one general problem is not at all talked about, it does not consider its meaning and role, which is that civilization as such is not only an individual but civilization has lost a deeper meaning of life. Now I do not perform as a priest that the long meaning of life is sought exclusively through the religious option. I think we should look for this deeper meaning of life through civic spirituality and that means through the life of certain values that live in families and pass on to the offspring raised by the church community if it is well articulated and sensitive to problems that long meaning by some psychologists and psychiatrists say that the underlying disease of modern society is a lost deeper meaning of life. This deeper meaning of life is not a recipe that is easy to find, then we have the Taliban, but it's a search that doesn't last long but lasts a lifetime to discover deeper meaning. Just these days I'm reading the autobiography of the great Ghandy and the title of his autobiography is "My Search for Truth." The search for the truth of battle, for the truth of life doesn't last long but only as long as we live. I know that I did not start a country and problems with this step, but I tried to point out the search for a deeper sense and that this House of Parliament would have to talk more often about the fate issues of Croatia, the Croatian nation and the citizens of Croatia, which is that it should unite forces, all social forces, and not go one way, and I'm afraid how much I followed the Parliament even before the Parliament and this pay phone didn't hear much about the loss of a deeper meaning of life. When he loses his wanderings, they're almost normal, and the consequences are extremely difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18842	Thank you, Your Honor. Five replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Ante Babic and first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18843	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, at the outset, you colleagues Grubisic started talking about a sick society, providing information about a sick nation. If this is still referred to that paradoxal nation, and I don't know what it is that doesn't really raise the same nation for 50 years, and you know very well when an individual gets out of something that's easier to manipulate with it. And then you say you've read Ghandy, but I'm telling you that you don't have to search for that truth, the truth will set you free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18844	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak. ... Oh, no? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The sun's twilight? Excuse me. It's all misspelled. [[Intruder: Đurjica twilight.]] I apologize to both you and the Sun. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18845	Nothing, sir. Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's simply my colleague Grubisic. I had to lift up the line because it was on your side when I listen to you. I really have to hear you talk awful about the psychically ill nation that the Croats are a nation that are mentally ill. This is your philosophical debate today in this House we've never heard it in the House that one of the MPs is, but very rarely I hear it outside, and very rarely from professional people to call a nation of Croats mentally ill. And very nicely told you fellow Babic what you did to your colleague Grubisic to show young people what their purpose of life is? What did you do so that you could say something like this today? I'm so sorry to hear that from your words, I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18846	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of the respected MPs Đurdice Sumrak and the esteemed representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18847	I meant this wouldn't be welcomed by applause, but I didn't expect this much misunderstanding. What have I been doing for 50 years? I know very well that I tried to push Mosor without Mosor moving. That's a fact. But what I've listed are statistics that suggest, not me, that the nation is sick and physically ill, biologically ill because all of these addictions lead to a reduction in life and a reduction in the reproduction of Croatian peoples and citizens of Croatia. When someone goes through addiction, whatever, it becomes a deity to him and the meaning of life. Then the question of marriage and offspring and nations is lost. These are again facts, not my interpretation that there are fewer populations in Croatia each year for a smaller town of about 10,000. What are the reasons? They need to be investigated, not politicized where there is no room for politics, but facts, data and a clear head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18848	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18849	Thank you very much. Fellow Grubisic, you said that, you were talking about the meaning of life about Gandhi, about family, about everything a little bit, that Croatian society might be more precisely defined, which is that "sick" are political elites and structures. Yeah, that's right, don't be screaming your head off if you weren't supposed to say it, I'm allowed to say it. So, political elites and structures that are inaction, failures and sins, if we're going to talk about your sermon, then so to speak, have led to Croatia being truly in a demographic crash that no country of Europe or any country is experiencing. When you talk about educator education, then you need to know that first of all, the church says, but also the worldly family is the foundation of society, and then the family and the head of the family need to educate first of all so that they can recognize the disease that occurs, that is, the monster that appears in our children, to prevent it. So, whether secularly, whether religious or whatever you want from Stjepan Radic who said that the family is the foundation of society, and today it is so, without it, without that fact in vain all preventions, all preventions, all moves, all strategies, all invested money was local, regional self-government or state in various programs and in connection with these monsters and other monsters affecting Croatian society. We're no one sick, we're not in that sense we're not on the ground to say low branches, the problem is in the elite, I repeat, and the structures and the archbishop Cardinal said because of his sins structures only no one can say that anymore, neither can you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18850	Thank you very much. Time's up. The next replica and respected representative, huh? Here's your esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18851	I have to answer not to say what I think, so I don't even want to talk about the sin structure, and they are not small in Croatian society either.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18852	Thank you very much. It was an answer to the replica of respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18853	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a statement, one statement that I am not speaking here as a priest for a long time. So, and the fact is that you don't speak as a priest because you can speak here as a parliamentary representative, so I pray you, uh, understand that this is the Croatian Parliament and that here you really speak as a representative and that you don't want to, I say insult you, that part of the priest within you, no matter what the church decides about the fate of your clergy, that you do not use for this speaker anyway. And here, I would ask you because each of us could talk, now don't talk like I'm an engineer of engineering or someone else as a veterinarian, etc., so to stop that priest from inside because you're no longer a priest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18854	Reply to the replica and respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18855	I am the archbishop titled doctor, Don Ivan Grubisic, therefore I remain a priest, but I did not want to use the Assembly speaker as a priest but as an independent representative, and I remain a priest and no clergy can drive me out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18856	5 replicas and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18857	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Ivan Grubisic, you said what your colleagues have already listed, a psychologically troubled nation, a sick nation and so on in that style. I, gentlemen, agree with Mr Ivan Grubisic. Because if that were not the case in Croatia, we would not have one man, one priest who is part of the church hierarchy and whose church hierarchy defends explicitly with its Canonese rules which are part of, an integral part of the Croatian legislative, to establish a political party and to deal with politics. And he, despite the ban, established a political party, enters politics and says it is not a political party, and could have called it "Mare Marice", but it is the political party that brought him here to the Parliament and holds the sermons here as high. That he doesn't speak as a priest, so we know he doesn't speak as a priest because otherwise we locals know a little better than that. But Mr. Grubishic, you've always been closer to those who declare themselves to be agnostics, I don't know what it is, but I know it has nothing to do with God and these atheists like the Prime Minister. He won't come to the theater when the Pope comes, that's the message we're really talking about, so Cain didn't understand me either. We preach a system of values without God. If there is no God there is no sin, if there is no sin only it is profit, if it is profit, I have the right to sell marijuana and you are with such always good and instead, you should not tell me that you do not preach as a priest here because you said you were preaching a civil spirituality. What's that? It is a common civil, or spiritual category that is nothing. Moral, if it is moral and the consequences of morality, then it is again the image of God in man, and you are not preaching the image of God in man, but you are fully advocating, let us say a world - view that has nothing to do with God.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18858	Mr. Marasović, please do not enter into the personality of any representative, nor do you assess his personality, please. I'm asking you nicely, and I don't want to pollute with you. And now the reply to the replica, Honored Representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18859	I'm not surprised that some MPs don't understand the speech I've been saying, it doesn't surprise me, it just points to the one I'm not going to tell the conclusion, but a warning that it's a sick state in this nation and even in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18860	This I think would really be too much to allow to assess the health of a single body, such as the Croatian Parliament. Whether you're happy with him or not. But in the name of tolerance, we go over it and I call on the HDSSB and Igor Chesek Club for the first part of the debate on behalf of the club. Next part or second part of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18861	Dear President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. There are several kinds of addictions, addictions to tobacco, alcohol, cubes, gambling, and, of course, the most difficult of all kinds of drug addictions. And that's why it's a good thing we're discussing this issue today. The HDZ will accept the 2011 report on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the Republic of Croatia, and we will also support the proposal of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2017. In any country where there is a difficult economic and social situation, as well as in ours, it is an extremely suitable factor for the spread of drug abuse and other diseases and addictions. Although police drug confiscation and arrests of drug traffickers are becoming increasingly successful, the public needs to know that the fight against drugs can produce results only with the contribution of the entire society. It requires not only repressive but preventive and educational measures by authorities, parents, schools, teachers, health institutions, NGOs, media and ultimately the police must unite efforts to protect young people and society. Problems related to drug abuse should be understood primarily from the point of view of broad social issues where poverty, neglect, unemployment and consequential social exclusion arise again in the first place. Therefore, the priorities that the state will give drug-related policies depend on the state of spread of drug abuse in society, economic opportunities and level of social awareness on all dimensions of this problem. According to the 2011 Croatian Institute of Public Health, the number of drug addicts who were in one of the forms of treatment was 7 thousand 665, and what is positive is that the newly registered addicts who were 1151 were in decline. More than 80% of registered addicts are opiate addicts, and they're 6198. As far as problem addicts are concerned, it is calculated that in Croatia the figure ranges between 6600 and 12553, while the number of intravenous addicts ranges between 184 and 1833. In his debate, Mr. Cain made a proposal that I like very much and I support him in talking about incentives for employers who employ former addicts. Because these former addicts, when they find a job and get on their feet, will be best able to work through their life stories to prevent drug abuse. And if they do not work and are rejected by society, it is very likely that they will return to the street again and consume opiates. Unfortunately, still in our society is a disturbed system of values. The family is in the last place, young people are unemployed, everyone sees a golden mole that enjoys uninterruptedly in expensive intoxicating drugs in the VIP salons of Zagreb clubs. And we're witnessing the consummation of the rebellion. Here we can read in the media this morning that a student of the University of Restaurant and Tourism in Zagreb has been lying in the hospital for 13 days because of the consumption of the rebel. Also on the same day, a colleague in his class was found half naked at an elementary school. He didn't know how to get home. Both reportedly consumed in school a femininity, a dangerous and poisonous plant that is not even on the list of illegal drugs. I think she's become popular in the affair of the Chief of Staff, this particular plant of reluctance. However, this experiment, I suppose, was an experiment, perhaps HDZ was trying to make a set of mass production rebels, but it had fatal consequences so he was expelled from HDZ. ... The possible decriminalisation of light drugs suggests an increasing social reluctance towards narcotics, and this is especially the case for young HNSs seeking the legalisation of easy drugs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It would be best for 102,000 young unemployed to be high and not think about not having a job, not having a future. But as honey and milk flow into Croatia, I apologize, not only milk, but more and more poor, I'm afraid the number of drug addicts could grow as anything that doesn't need to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18862	Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic, second part on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18863	Here's a thank you, Mr. President. If I had said that the state of this nation is sick, that the state of this Croatian Parliament is sick or that the sick in this House would probably have come for me and had this beautiful performance on all possible televisions. This way in the spirit of tolerance goes over one statement, which I think is a bit scandalous, because I do not believe that the patients are sitting here, but that the representatives who came through the party lists are sitting here, no one was in the direct elections they eventually chose, the Croatian voters chose. But come back, therefore, to these addictions, of which it is certainly one of the biggest drug addictions, and there, above all, should avoid this division of easy and heavy drugs. Because I think that such divisions should not be because who can guarantee that the one, to say the smoked joint marijuana or one tablet of ecstasy, since no one put that ecstasy into heavy drugs, but in synthetic drugs, can be more harmless than cocaine, heroin, or I don't know which other types of drugs. It is certainly also an addiction to alcohol and, in recent times, dependence on gambling, gambling where in every city, in every village, in every catering facility under cover, so to speak of sports betting that the state does not control very often, very often there is no insight into the real state of gambling especially in young people, regardless of the ban that this cube is banned under 18 years old, that at this point it may be a bigger problem of drug addiction. Certainly with addiction, with treatment of addiction, first and foremost funds should be invested in the very prevention that should begin immediately in the family, not wanting to offend any parent, many parents are not educated to recognize the danger not only of drugs, of alcohol, but here at this most recent time precisely of this greatest and I would say the most devastating addiction, which is a cube. It should continue in kindergarten, whether they private, whether they church, whether social should continue in primary school, in high school, should ultimately be through the full participation of society, so from units of local self-government, church, family, sports clubs, should continue this constant and constant prevention. What affects addiction itself? Has anyone tried to understand these young people when they come out of their family who is overwhelmed with all kinds of problems, which often faces mere survival, which is what this young man or young person comes out of that family, not only on the Internet, but on all our streets can see? It can see practically two layers, one poor layer and one very small layer of rich people who are allowed to have everything, who don't need everything at all in this social situation in general, and think that these young people often escape through this addiction and from the real social situation. I will not mention now and a huge number of unemployment, all that is related to, at this time for Croatian society, the very imperceptibility of young people who very difficult to get their permanent employment, very difficult to provide and start their family, very difficult to have children, these children sent to school, these children put on their feet. Because we have led Croatia to the fact that life in Croatia is becoming unspective. I wouldn't talk about a sick nation, not even a dying nation, but a nation, a country that has no perspective, no matter how hard we try because the only perspective we have right now is to get out of this reality. Unfortunately, we have brought ourselves into it, and right now, and only the EU, do we not have other alternatives. Often families of addicts become victims, often cured addicts become heroes. But here, too, one topic needs to be opened which society learns from cured addicts through various communities. I can boast that, we especially here in Osijek-Baranja County had 3.4 such communities, the City of Đakovo also has a prevention centre, and there is a council for prevention. In cooperation with the MUP is about education, both the youngest and the families, so all layers of society. But what is this treated addict after everything society, after all, and his family who eventually became the only victim, what is learned from him? Did society ever, even that part of the repressive apparatus of society, ever ask an addict who actually offered him drugs first, who first talked him into certain deviations? Did that addict tell you the truth after that? I think it should be them who discover the whole system not only of drug dealing, but of those bosses who import it into Croatia. Unfortunately, these structures are also in this part of the repressive apparatus and in the part of the state in narrow terms. I find it particularly interesting, and I also want to open one topic here to decriminalise easy drugs, so I argue that it is not yet defined what is easy drugs and that it is not just marijuana, that it is just one part so I would say that the current parties to the authorities are also pushing for the decriminalisation of easy drugs even though it is the beginning of a heavy addiction, while at the same time the Law on infringements against public order and peace is being sent to this House, where there are various provisions, for example. from a curse addressed to the President of the Republic, to the Prime Minister, to a parliamentary representative or mayor where he slowly goes to, or insults the character and actions of the president both the state, government or one mayor, where that road to the Goli Island is slowly introduced. Fortunately, there is no Google Island today. There are also certain things in this law that are related to the creation of the USCOD sexual brigade, so I would like first of all to warn that no easy drugs should be decriminalized, that we are strongly against it because it is the beginning of all addictions. So, in the fight against addiction, this strategy should involve the entire society, family, church, school, parents, and us parliamentary representatives. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18864	Thank you, too. Before we do the replicas, dear representative, I welcome your concern for the reputation of the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian public, it is good and I am glad to have you take care of it, and at the same time I will tell you this view of the world from my own backyard very often and always almost leads to the wrong and wrong picture of the world in real condition. Don't judge everyone from your own position. And now two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You can see this proposal by colleagues Češek and Vinkovic, this second legislative proposal of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia should be called the National Strategy to combat drug abuse and other addictions in the Republic of Croatia. That's exactly what you fellow Vinkovic were talking about when you were talking about alcohol, smoking, gambling, betting, etc. Furthermore, why is it even like this to say a significant drug addiction rate? Well, because according to scientific research, there's a huge supply of drugs, it's under number one, and a second change in the quality of life up there. The quality of life on top is worse because people don't have what it is to man, and that's work. A man without a job is a man without dignity or a man without a job. A man without a job is a man with no hope. A man without a job has a sense of emptyness, imperceptibility, and it has increased motivation to take or consume means of addiction. Until the Croatian society has improved in this segment until the structures work on the segment, not on spies, so that employment can be increased so that Croatia moves forward economically clearly that we will always have a certain rate of drug addiction, but then certainly the motivation for drug use will be significantly lower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18866	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18867	You're right fellow to exactly the state of society, and this shows a number of analyses affecting the increase in addiction. And even these new addictions that are called not only sports betting where practically many families become victims and they can hardly recognize when they really all disappear from their family that very often this is exactly the state of society which, and this is totally unspective, because no one can and it is written in the Constitution that everyone has the right to work and a worthy life from their work. I didn't want to talk about inflation, or about 323 thousand unemployed, I didn't want to talk about tycoons driving angry cars, I didn't want to talk about everything that's going on in this Croatian society where a young man who finishes school or college can't find his place of work can go to this 1600 kuna volunteering, but afterwards all the possibilities of staying in this beautiful country are closed. And to you, Mr. President, there's always a boss in the yard, and in my backyard, I'm the boss, and I don't know who you're in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18868	Thank you. Next line, counterpart Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18869	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Vinkovic, I will replicate a nation that has no perspective. That's your point of view and your opinion. You know what, it bothers me a lot, I'm getting a little tired of these statements and these kinds of shows. Croatia is a nation that has a bright future, a beautiful perspective. A colleague of Vinkovic that you are a resident of Split like me, so on Saturday you go to Solta in front of the port you see 3 overseas ships, cruisers, the whole world wants to see us, the whole world wants to visit us. We went out on the highways 10 years after the war on all our borders, the infrastructure was solved. We have a state, it's a guarantee of this nation's bright future. If we had stayed in Yugoslavia without our country, then it would have been the destruction of the Croatian people and the Croatian nation. I don't like your attitude either, it's not good, it's not good, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's all Croatia. No matter what the change, this nation will have a good future, it just needs one good government in these times. Our economy has collapsed because, I don't know what reasons and I know what reasons transitions are, 10 billion costs a year and after-war consequences. And today we almost pay 10 billion a year. If it hadn't been for the war, we'd have reached Slovenia and Switzerland long ago, but we'll outrun her despite this. We need a better government, we need to do everything we can to get out of this economic crisis. This nation has a future. The Croats used to stay on fewer people than they are today, even in Bosnia at 30,000, now there are 400, 500. The number of inhabitants will not be important to determine that future of the Croatian people, the Croats will be here, I will not say forever, but it will be long enough that our generations will enjoy what this generation has won and created.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18870	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18871	... Now I finally heard one great truth, because practically SDP=HDZ. [[Specially enabled.]] It is my pleasure, so in the eyes of the citizens it is indeed so, I did not say that these are not Croatian parties, I only claim that from today, therefore from this point of view Croatia has no perspective. Now, if you think there is, then I suggest you meet with your party leadership and sign a kind of coalition, since you have so kindly defended the current situation in Croatian society. The fact is that cruises, overseas ships in our tourist resorts is just a question of who and what does it have to come to Croatia? Croatia where tourism is indeed one of the basic, alongside agriculture, one of the main branches. Even that tourism can't get away with it. Look at everything that's been happening to us, so from 1990 to today, it's not the only culprit of the Homeland War, although Croatia suffered the most in the Homeland War. Not to mention the victims, the destroyed cities, the villages, but it was the most robbed in that transformation and privatisation, where the consequences are still felt today. Where we sold out all of Croatia's gold for nothing, for invaluable, where many workers, including many peasants, have lost their future, where many Croats and Croats are definitely wiped out from that future. I think you understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18872	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. The next club of HSU and a colleague of Vishnya Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18873	Thank you very much, well-respected vice presidents, ministry representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. The first national drug control strategy, the prevention of drug abuse and the assistance of drug addicts in the Republic of Croatia was adopted in 96 and was adopted in 2001 and the Law on the control of drug abuse, and later amended in 2011. This led to the identification of current data on state and movement, the problems faced by individuals and society as a consequence of drug abuse. As the need for a balanced, integrated and multidisciplinary approach and the harmonisation of the legal property of the Republic of Croatia with the EU proved, in 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted 2. National strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2006 to 2012. And it was implemented in practice through a two-year action plan to curb drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. Participants in the implementation of the national strategy were institutions that had any bearing on the problem of addiction, and could contribute to the prevention of drug abuse. We think about reducing the demand and supply of drugs, prevention, reduction of the damage caused by drug use, treatment and psychosocial treatment, rehabilitation and inclusion in normal life, but also criminal policy, education, monitoring of phenomena, research war, evaluation, education of experts and international cooperation. This included the involvement of specific tasks of individual authorities of state administration, local and regional self-government, police, education system institutions, health systems, social care, justice, scientific institutions, civil society organisations and the envisaged need for their integration and cooperation. Therefore, it was also necessary to provide an institutional framework for the insurance, coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan, which consisted of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to combat drug abuse, the Office for the control of drug abuse and relevant ministries and at the county level of the County Commission. The monitoring of the implementation has enabled insight into the way in which the tasks are realised and the difficulties that have been encountered in practice. The evaluation has shown that the weakest points of communication and cooperation between institutions, but there have been shortcomings in the implementation of some concrete programmes in different systems, lack of guidance, research and evaluation of programmes and projects from all areas of drug abuse. Progress has certainly been made, but there remains plenty of room for new challenges and the development of new programmes to reduce supply and demand, as well as a lot of space to connect and co-operate different participants at regional, national and international level. Therefore, the key recommendations for the new National Strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2017 were that it contained specific, measurable, realistic and attainable objectives. This certainly applies to objectives that should also be realised in the field of social care, as these are also assumptions that the tasks identified could be fully realised. In determining obligations and tasks, it is therefore necessary to take care of organisational, staff and professional capacities, in particular social care centres, which are also the most prominent participants in the social care system. Although centres have always met with addicts who have been treated over the years because of very different problems and the achievement of different rights and services since the adoption of the National Strategy, they have established activities aimed at preventing and resociating addicts. As in the previous National Strategy, the most important task is to provide timely assistance to families and in time to take measures of family and legal protection, primarily to monitor parental care, advisory work, and through this to strengthen activities aimed at strengthening parental competences, empowerment and support of parents' families in dealing with the challenges of everyday life, especially the educational challenges. It is still important to include children from risky family environments and developing risk children in groups of preventive programmes implemented in cooperation with schools with the support of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and local self-government and administrations, which include primary work with children and parents. This is of paramount importance in the implementation of this strategy. Therefore, part of the children will continue to be included in the half-day stay with an extended professional procedure in primary schools, given the increasingly complex situations that we face both types of programmes would be directed and extended. Underage and underage perpetrators of drug offences or drug offences or other offences, which have been found to have started experimenting with drugs, are required to refer to existing drug withdrawal programmes, most often within the framework of specific obligations developed. It is equally important to include young people who have problems growing up and finding themselves in various programmes of psychosocial and sociopedagogue treatment either in the centre, or in existing programmes outside the centre. As with the boredom of children and young people with more pronounced psychological problems and associated interference, it is necessary to refer specialists to child and adolescent psychiatry and all of this in time. In the previous National Strategy, centres were given as holders the task of detecting children who had left schooling and designing education and training programmes and involving children and young people in the same thing that could not be realised in practice. Namely, the Centre for Social Care can only come to such knowledge if it has in the treatment of a family whose child is at risk of leaving school or has already left it, and the centre is also unable to provide education and training programmes itself because it was not and is not only in its jurisdiction. However, after obtaining information from the school center can provide psychosocial support to families and children and encourage them to continue their education and to participate in existing programmes offering an educational system or in different programmes offered by representatives of civil society. Here is a special emphasis set on educational and educational institutions, i.e. schools. There are our children, there are problems, and if schools and school representatives do not respond in time, believe, and it is time to invite the family to include the Social Care Centre immediately in the area I am convinced that these problems would surely be much, much less. In most of the above activities, it is particularly important here I repeat my cooperation with the school especially with the primary because they include all the population of children and parents and may also have the first information on family problems, and timely reports by the Centre for Social Care of Schools or other participants can also contribute significantly to the timely interventions of the Centre for Social Care in the Family and protect the welfare of children. It is necessary to further support the role of civil society and to improve already established cooperation with associations and clubs dealing with various cultural and entertainment, sports activities and to implement various psychosocial and sociopedagogical programmes. It is particularly important to support cooperation with those who provide support and need to addicts in the process of resociation and their integration in the community at local level, and I repeat to their families again. In addition to activities in which the focus is on prevention of addiction and the task of the Centre for Social Care is certainly to participate in the project of resociating addicts through informing addicts about the possibilities of professional orientation of training and continuing education and providing psychosocial and any other support within their jurisdiction. In a similar way, the centre should also provide a post-tretman reception for minors and adults, returnees from the maintenance of prison sentences, and for returnees of educational institutions after the enforcement of the educational measure, and provide them with psychosocial support as well as for the real needs and different forms of assistance according to their legal frameworks. The institutions for children and young people in the system are social care, can and should contribute to the prevention of addiction through their regular programmes that will further complement the topics on the importance of health and health and lifestyle, and prepare them to face the different problems life brings daily. A significant, preventive role is also played by family centres that strengthen families and parental potential through different forms of work, and workshops for children in primary schools inform and strengthen children. They also make a significant contribution by making various publications intended primarily for parents and children, as well as professionals who work with them. In order for experts in the social care system to deal more successfully with the problems of addiction and with basic education to acquire new skills for working with children and young people, especially at the threshold of prevention, it is necessary to engage in education that will further help them. However, it is equally important that they transfer their knowledge to other participants involved in the national strategy. A significant gain for all is the exchange of experiences and knowledge of the activities of all participants. A good example is regional education in the project of resociation of addicts, organised by the Office for Drugs of the Government of Croatia, and lecturers and participants are experts from all systems participating in the project. Also, at local level, it is important to exchange experiences and to know as many experts as possible in centres, about types of drugs, their actions, the consequences, the possibilities of working with experimentators, which is good to realize through cooperation with the Institute of Public Health for the Protection of Mental Health with which in Zagreb we have extremely good cooperation and already agreed education for a number of experts in the centres. What we find extremely important for the more successful implementation of the national strategy and action plans is good cooperation between all participants in their implementation, although the evaluation has pointed to a lot of shortcomings on this particular plan. We must point out that the centres of the year-to-year improve cooperation with everyone, and in particular we find it important to cooperate better with representatives of civil society that we have identified as important partners, and through the establishment of a partnership of relations with the work of associations, especially those who implement different programmes for young people at different stages of life. And we try to contribute together to improving the lives of young people and their families. Some also had formalized cooperation through the signing of the partnership, and we should be open to expanding cooperation with all who can contribute to the protection of our children's best interests. We are also working to establish best inter-resorship cooperation with all other participants in the implementation of the national strategy and action plan, but also to all those who can contribute to improving the lives of children and families. We estimate that there is still much room for improvement on this plan, which we consider to be one of the priorities in the work. Although it may seem that the welfare system, especially centres, does not have a large number of tasks, we believe that their professional and responsible realization can contribute significantly to the prevention and prevention of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. From the above, the HSU club will support the national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, which we consider to be a very important document for young people, families and society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18874	Thank you very much. The replica of your presentation has a colleague Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18875	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague described the strategy and its achievements, the content, and we cannot, of course, disagree with that. What's not said is that this strategy needs money, bigger money than it's spent so far. But the second part of what the state needs to do, other than prevention, is repression. These big dealers that we talk about so much, they're not particularly bad people, they're people without advice and unscrupulous, but they go into it to make money, big money. And earn money, turn it into property, and what does our tax system do? An estimate, since this is about cash, is not the money that went through the account, estimates that property and paid tax disagree and then cuts the tax on that property. People pay taxes and that property becomes legal property. Then why don't we put cocaine dealers and white slave dealers in the list of professions and stuff like that? Our IRS that the Labours proposed to this House had a different intensity. Property for which there is no justification should be taken away and it is earned by crime. Of course, not all people with such assets, for which no drug dealers have any origins, there are other employees, there are interest rates, frauds, human traffickers and the like. The most sensitive moment and the most sensitive place of such people is their money. As long as we have to prove to him that he did it and that work, so we're gonna press the drug addicts or I don't know which other way, or we're gonna catch them with our hand in the honey, there's gonna be nothing of it. Our repressive apparatus and tax administration with it should concentrate on catching illegal property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18876	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18877	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The vision set in the national strategy is to reduce, as we have already heard several times, the supply and demand of drugs in society. In order to achieve the vision and national drug policy, it is necessary to do so through health, social, educational and natural repressive systems, and other organisations and protection measures. In this development of a national strategy, 3 in a row in Croatia from its draft, it certainly took care of the real needs arising from the current state of the drug problem. The annual report shows figures moving around the world of drug consumption, drug-types, drug-related money, then fatalities, intoxication, and other data. The figures related to Croatia are also shown to be on the rise. 30,000 290 people have been registered who have been treated in any way. I won't talk much about it because we've heard from my predecessors and predecessors, and there will probably be words and in the debate numbers will repeat itself several times. To compare, 31 million kunas have been approved for this National Strategy, for example, methadone processing in the Republic of Croatia is 42 million kuna. 3.6% of the world's budget is drug-related. I've only brought this information out so I can say what we all know and we have to say the war on drugs will be hard to win. The reports also show the efforts taken to reduce the number of addicts, in order to prevent drug abuse and intoxication, especially among children and young people, the reduction in the proportion of drugs, their availability, and I will look back at a part of the report that talks about people treated for drug use in Croatia. Compared to 2011, I would like to say that 7665 people were treated with a total of various forms of drug addiction, and for the first time last year, 1153 people. But there is little mention of the addictions that are growing, and I think we should say something about them. It's alcohol consumption, gambling addiction and betting. When we talk about drugs, there's a great danger and a growing presence. designer drugs cheaper than usual. They're mostly online, and we've heard that before today. Spice, for example, is sold as an exotic scent or a magical dragon sold in the form of scented sticks. For the crocodile I believe you also heard about, his addicts say he can survive anything from two to three years. However, what is worrying is the procedure for including a new asset on the state list of banned substances that takes a long time and requires a number of administrative steps with professional reasons, all of which is widely used by the death industry. Only last year, 14 such drugs were recorded in Croatia, and here every story of a permanent example of parental education ceases. And that's what we have to say. So, even those who are in this business every day, who deal with drug problems on a daily basis, can't be a step in with the death industry. They will always be a step forward, they will always produce something new that is not on the list forbidden and we will hardly step in with them. So what we heard today is that everything comes from the family, as far as younger generations are concerned. Here's a tragic example in the paper today. But how will parents be educated? Where will parents be educated and what about those addicts who have parents but become addicts in the late 30s, 40s, 50s? What about them? In some ways, the strategy defines it, but we can fight but we can hardly win that. It concerns the fact that there are over 10,000 people in Croatia with drugs, which is an illustration of a city the size of Knin. Drugs is a big business that knows neither borders nor manufacturers are interested in age limits. Consequences of consumption are of no interest to them, drugs are simply available. This is also a testimony to research that has shown that you can mostly buy it anywhere. In public places, closed places, you can call a dealer home, you can go to him, you can get it at any disco club, you can buy it via the Internet. So that's what's amazing, the drugs are available at every turn. In the replica, I said drugs are even more available because they're getting cheaper. And what is its quality about it can best be spoken by experts who do it anyway. When we talk about the age limits of the latest 2011 survey involving 37 countries and 105 thousand students who were 16 years old by the number of students who consume so-called "Students". "light drugs" Croatia is on the European average. Which means 21% of boys and 14% of girls, so 16-year-olds, at least once tried marijuana, but at the top are Croatian students when it comes to drinking and smoking. Two bad habits that are linked to experimenting with psychoactive means. We are in an infamous 7th place of 37 countries at the availability of marijuana, and it is alarming that parents continue to know that their children are, for example, heroin only after 3.4 years. So heroin addicts can cover their addiction for so long and it's proven by research. The social community is, of course, involved in prevention, education and resociation and a few words about those who have been conditionally said lucky. It's about ex-addictionals who got back on the labour market. So last year, 128 drug addicts, 86 men and 42 women, were registered. By 31 December 21 users of the resociation project of treated addicts are employed. But let's not kid ourselves. There will still be dissatisfaction, feelings of emptyness, people who lose their jobs, people who fall into temptations. Disrupted systems of value, and in young people, for example, the desire to prove, the desire to grow up as soon as possible, the desire not to be different in society, and the weakest ones in many cases of low self-respect. There will continue to be a battle between the industry of death, the vast business and those that will be dragged into the dark side of drug consumption. In Croatia, more than 150 people die of drugs, so all those who feel that there is a difference between easy drugs and heavy drugs should consider these figures, numbers that are actually human and their families. Is drugs almost always metastasized into the family, and ultimately it has consequences for society as a whole. Every time one life is lost, the industry of death has won. But we have to try these strategies, not to give a harshly worded one lost life for a new one, and that will be achieved by prevention, by measures like this, by reducing the number of addicts. The HDZ Club will accept the report and strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18878	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in the debate Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18879	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. So this morning we're discussing a big problem that must be one of the leading risk factors in both developed and undeveloped countries. I can paint it, this kind of problem we can view as one octopus, and everyone who deals with this problem is taking an octopus by the hips, trying to catch it, but it continues slowly but certainly tightens around the neck many. Therefore, the entire system of fighting should be connected, not only at formal level, but at a formal level, but at true co-operation, this primary protection that is managed through the education system, or through health care, to be as effective in mechanisms and disease detection as well as in prevention. In fact, it is necessary to connect all treatment systems and it is necessary for them to be complemented, and it is necessary that no matter where the system is, one who needs to be helped to kill know or work to connect such systems. It is also necessary to clearly distinguish the drug dealer from the addicts, i.e. from the victim that was in before, in the discussions mentioned, because in this way it actually reduces the unnecessary burden of the judicial system, i.e. to make it more effective. The success of prevention and treatment of addiction is exactly proportional to the time when it was actually discovered, the disease was detected, and the data on the average age of essential moments of addictive behavior certainly give us, show us the course of disease development. The report shows that school prevention programmes took place in many schools throughout Croatia, with more than 27 school prevention programmes. However, it concerns that 127 of them alone 35 were evaluated. And there's a problem by schools, we all agree that schools are the institutions where the most can be provided in prevention, but the problem is bad or no evaluation. And this small number that was evaluated he was evaluated purely through the implementation of the programme, not whether the goal justified the funds. I am pleased to hear the data that, that the prevention programme base has been created and that it will be one of the basics, that it will be the introduction of the structure into preventive programmes. One more thing about preventive programmes, I believe that the continuity of implementation is very important to them because prevention without real continuity kills and cannot be a real prevention. That is why I welcome the introduction of health care, the adoption of healthy lifestyles, and I hope that this health education will develop, that one day it will come within the curricula, that it will know exactly who, what and when it does, because as we heard in previous discussions very often it was left to people's enthusiasm. Something about substitution therapy, this substitution therapy is usually used by those who enjoy opiates, and here's the information that 82% are. Therefore, this substitution therapy should be followed exactly by a certain protocol otherwise it can be misused, and we are witnessing many abuses, we are witnessing an overdose with substitution therapy which is also absurd. Therefore, we should appeal to those who give, give,... and not to give them higher doses that they can or over the weekend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there's a way to control it, not to abuse it, to resell methadone, heptanone, and so they're taking heroin, and it's still poisoning. She'd say something about other addictions that we can't forget, according to ESPAD research, our young smoke cigarettes, smoke because they're very available and we have, very early start smoking. Then it's a consumption of alcohol, where we are now according to some data, according to studies in 3 places compared to other ESPAD countries. Therefore, without cooperation, there is no improvement without multidisciplinary approach. There are various obstacles to providing assistance, obstacles to non-acceptability, non-cooperation of parents, non-cooperation of institutions. We have various examples of this, e.g. a child who comes in an alcoholic state, arrives for emergency medical care, should not happen to his school doctor not to have a conversation with him, with his parents, etc. We know that children get into comatose conditions just alcoholized children. And if this remains only information at the emergency room where the child is accepted from it has nothing, we must act in this direction by connecting the institutions, connecting the information, the information must come to his doctor, or the cooperation of parents and doctors must be in that case. Also, without your parents' consent, you can't even do some kind of test. Here's an example in private high school of drug testing. Why? Because the parents accepted it, it was the policy of that school. But in other places it wasn't possible because a parent can say I don't want it for my child. And parents need help, I agree. They are the strongest link, the strongest should be the link in the system of raising their child, but they need help, they should be educated. Our colleagues and colleagues all know that Croatia is a transit area through which the roads vary and this Balkan route, etc., thus the Republic of Croatia has become a country where there is an increasing number of new drugs and simply where the availability of drugs is increased. According to the State's Attorney's Office, more than 6,000 persons have been reported to the perpetrators, including 348 minors. There's a huge rejection, almost 60.1% of applications have been rejected, but it's also a large number of relapsers. I will say only in the event of rejection if rejection is due to insignificantness of the work in that case we are missing essentially an opportunity to help young consumers to actually catch their behavior in time, or their disease when it is in the beginning. Therefore, the rejection of criminal charges should be based on the principle of purpose. In that case, he must be justified, and that way we can help better. It is very important that Croatia is precisely because of the geostrategic situation mentioned that it has very good international activities in the area of drug control, precisely because of the various experiences of other countries, and also because of the fight against criminal organisations, corruption, money laundering, etc. There's a new strategy ahead of us, and I hope that the future reports will be even better, and I'll finally say that these are very small shifts in very big problems. I'll go back to that octopus when everyone grabs her by the hips, but to get over the octopus, it's gonna have to be right by her head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18880	Thank you. The replica has a colleague, Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18881	Thank you very much. Well, I agree entirely with the fact that this prevention is the best way and I would dare say the easiest way to fight addiction. But something about repression, about arrests, criminal charges and rejections. Why is there a large number of rejections? Well, for the simple reason, because most of these works and up to 70% of them apply to easy drugs. And now that we're discussing repression in the fight against addiction and drugs if we close our eyes to having easy drugs and heavy drugs, if we close our eyes before addicts, i.e. consumables, and especially addicts, and not criminals, we can't actually do business in a repressive or preventive part of it properly. Therefore, the Croatian police and the judiciary are engulfed in the fight against individuals, regardless of whether they are underage, adult, so that they consume from time to time some of the easy drugs. At the same time, organized crime passes us, large drug trafficking passes. Given that the capacity of the law enforcement authorities is engulfed with this whole story, I simply cannot respond to the request adequately dared to say in the fight against drug traffickers. So I think it's time we accepted certain facts. So, I don't think there's any difference in the world between easy drugs and heavy drugs anymore, like there's no doubt that there are opiates and stimuli and that I'm not going any further. Because it's an alphabet. I mean, it's like you have differences in the weight of individual drugs, so it's also in drugs. The thesis that anyone who tries easy drugs to end up on a heavy drug actually makes it impossible for us to adequately fight drug abuse, addiction, and above all drug traffickers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18882	Thank you. The answer to Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18883	Thank you very much. Well, I think a structure needs to be introduced in the repressive system. And that's right. The first thing to do is distinguish a drug addict from a drug dealer. A drug addict needs help, a drug dealer needs to be pushed away. I also accept that there is a need to distinguish between easier and harder drugs, but with a message that both are very dangerous. I have to mention here that the law on probation is going to put order into this system after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18884	Thank you. Next in an individual debate, colleague Gjurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18885	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry and representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I've had a lot of it written, but since the debate here has been going on for a long time, and there's a lot of it said in all the previous discussions, I'd ask in all of it, and I'd say would one of us here who are sitting here, but also completely in the Parliament, someone on the street when we go out and say if you were going to offer a joint today, offer me no marijuana or any other drug that isn't heavy, we'd say easy, to our kid or our grandson? I'm sure 100% that here among us would all say no, we won't do it because it's not healthy. So, one thing we're talking about is I agree with everyone who said no hard and easy drugs, drugs is drugs. So if marijuana goes in order of the light ones, none of us will offer it to our child or to our grandson. Why? Because he knows very well that after that he will reach out for something else. The only thing to talk about is the vicious circle, how to get out of it, is best known families, unfortunately found in the whole story, whose children reached out. For what reasons, a thousand questions is why, and when it began, and where did we sin as a family, as a community, as an individual, where we lost our own identity, where we lost our faith and our own battle? Well, I'd leave that, though, so the answers to each of us, I'd leave it for a philosophical debate, but I'd say it's very good for all of these national strategies when we've already faced this, this monster and that problem, which has been brought to date. Because until recently it was very embarrassing to even say that he was an ex-drug addict or that he was an addict on the Stigma, or that the whole family was embarrassed. Today, it is slowly getting lost, and it is simply good to admit that there is a problem in the family, and it is good that this problem can be solved. Through these discussions I only have a few objections, what bothers me, and we know it, and I agree that family is the beginning of everything, and our children are the gift of God. So I'd like to pray nicely this way and the media, but also us Parliamentarians and MPs, of course, when we talk about kids not to talk about some kids and some kids, because they're not, kids are people, they're girls or boys. And they don't like kids to be called kids or anything else, I'd say humiliating and stupid names that come from some of the same times. It's even a little bit heard in the media, this way I ask the media to stop calling it children. Within the family when the problem arises then the problem of schools or education systems is naturally referred to. I would say that religious institutions also play a very important role in getting rid of addiction, so I have to say a very large number of young people, including older ones, but also children. Yet we who went to religious school, I went to church for 59 years, my child went to a religious school, but I, as a parent, paid full attention to it and to every religious science of any religion, surely no child will hear that he can freely try marijuana or anything else from drugs, because it's not so dangerous, but that the daves will hear something else. Every religion and every religion speaks of some good and noble, not only of the family but of the life it should be and what it is in reality a battle. As a parent or as a mother, I always waited for my son at home no matter how many hours it was, and it shouldn't have been for two hours, until I was 18, I hope he didn't listen now, until 18 years he shouldn't have stayed out, until 12 hours he could have been. Today I'm surprised and I'm up for it and we talked on the board, and I'm glad there's been raids because I can't figure out how some kid, boy or girl can show up after 12 o'clock, or at 1, 2 o'clock in the morning of his 13, 16, or 17. Right, I'm not going to say that drugs, but all the other monsters and vices, alcohol, cigarettes, and pills are the same monster, gambling happens in that one night, because it's like that because there it is under cover, very often children are exposed to these dangers. So how can this parent sleep or not look at his child come home and see what happened on him? I also agree with the education of educators, and I agree that parents should also be educated because simply some parents don't know, they don't even recognize herbal drugs, so they don't recognize marijuana, especially our moms or their grandmothers, so very often their grandchildren leave jars with marijuana that they care about as some flowers on the balcony and water them, because they simply don't know what they're talking about. It was only when they looked, and it was good, it was good, it was very often seen on TV, and it was tied to the strategy of just as suppressing, painting and marijuana as it looks. Well, from all that, then that grandmother was upset and she said Jesus Christ, so he's at sea, and he told me it was his plant. So it's important to educate our parents, of course we don't know, now we shouldn't say, we shouldn't, but we should know. And it's certainly education, and every education is prevention, and I'm going to stand up for it, and I'm going to advocate that no drug is ever legalized, that it's always said no drugs and that it keeps pointing to the harmfulness of how the whip itself uses it. So drug use, enjoying it the only regrettable and very common end is death or such a mental disorder that is no longer possible to bring back, and also suffer families who find faith elsewhere find faith in God. But here he is, and God may leave all these addicts, but they end up coming back to him, and I have to say that because the most religious institutions have addicts, they return to him, that's where they find hope, and that's where they find salvation and find out their battle. Here, so much for my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18886	Thank you very much. The replica has a colleague, Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18887	Thank you. So, I agree with the fact that drugs are evil. But I think we should agree on a thought for me of a notorious fact, which is to be able to fight against evil that evil you have to recognize, you have to get to know it and you have to define it. Because if you don't, then you'll use the wrong tools to eradicate it. You see, we've often had an opportunity to listen when we talk about decriminalization, you've been identifying it with legalization. If you talked about the difference between easy and heavy drugs, you didn't accept it, but then you could say in the next sentence that all easy drugs lead to heavy drugs. I think we have to be in a strategy if we're a serious country and if we're serious about it, we have to define some things. It's crazy that we still don't have the decriminalization of easy drugs. Look out, in many countries marijuana is a medicine. We are still afraid to talk and talk about marijuana in certain forms and in certain quantities being prescribed in a large number of countries in the world as a cure. Now you can't tell me that marijuana and heroin or cocaine are the same thing. Why do I say that? I'm going back to metrics. We need to know what we're dealing with to win this evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18888	The answer to the replica of my colleague, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18889	I understand what you're trying to say, but I don't think you've figured out what I'm trying to say. Now you've been talking about marijuana and opiates again, and you want to say here that it's not the same thing, and I'm going to tell you, and you're saying that, of course, marijuana is a medicine in many countries. I'll tell you, here's the doctor that knows every drug over the dose is poison, and that same marijuana, every medicine that's taken at a dose that's not prescribed is poison. I wouldn't stand for it, but you have to know when you're talking this way then you're talking to the population of the children of the first grade of elementary school who say here's Mr. Lucin said that marijuana is healthy so why don't I use it then. I'll smoke marijuana because Mr. Lucin said it was okay. But I'm telling you it's not okay because under control something to take for medical purposes is completely one thing, and the other way is simply epic to do marijuana.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18890	Thank you, comrade twilight. He did not say that marijuana is healthy, he said that it is sometimes used as a cure. Next call from my colleague, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18891	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So in her debate, Mrs. Sumrak mentioned examples of course from her own family and relations with her own child, and it made me remind myself of the provision of the Family Law for many years we have, but I think it's really what a dead letter is said on paper, it's a provision of Family Law that tells me that parents are mandatory and obliged, so it's a legal obligation, not to let children under 16 years of age after, or in the period between 11 o'clock, and it seems to me 5 in the morning without the parents or adults in whom parents trust. Why would I bring that up? Often, and here is the recent police action in Zagreb, it seems to me that 40 minors have been detained, some of whom have even appeared to us in the Committee on the Family, protesting police proceedings, and simply are not aware that they have violated the law as parents. I'm saying this because we often mention when we talk about the problem of addiction that makes the state not enough, that it makes the government not enough, that it doesn't make the institutions and that it doesn't make the school, and that many parents tend to stick to school and say you have to do something, and that they're completely detached or we're moving away because I'm a parent to the obligation of family and parents to take care of their children. I think that's where it all starts, and all we learn in the family is what we carry into the future or rather what we say about working, respecting others, and then, of course, about the dangers that we don't learn in our own home, we'll hardly ever learn again in schools and colleges. So, I appeal that this provision is either respected or that we talk about simply getting kicked out of the law if nobody respects it or carries it out consistently.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18892	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18893	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I agree with you. And of course this is one of the big problems you've listed right now, it's related to both family and children. Namely, there is another problem with this release of minors and actions that have now been implemented and need to be implemented further. However, there is another problem that minors are easily bought cigarettes and alcohol. These days, a friend of mine from Switzerland came in with his kids and her son told her mom this was amazing so no one's asking me for a I.D. at a coffee shop or anywhere else, so I can buy without a cigarette problem. Yes, unfortunately that's true. And that's addiction. And a cigarette is an addiction, of course for all smokers we know it's not healthy and they do it again. And alcohol is addiction, but there's still one kind of addiction, unfortunately in this society that we live in, and these are different antidepressant pills that are equally available on the market and that's the same addiction. And do we have to fight it? Yes, of course, there are some laws to be followed. They may seem very repressive, but unfortunately when you're wrongly parked, then you'll be punished, and the second time you think about whether you'll park in that same place again, because the spider will take you and punish you. Regrettably, when we don't get our hands on our pockets, or our parents, or in some other way we don't understand the real situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18894	Thank you. Next in the debate, colleague Ana Comparić Devcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18895	I would like to thank the vice presidents, the proposing representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Today, a few colleagues have said one word, and that's the fight against drugs we're going to have a hard time getting, and somehow they put a dot there. What I want to add to that sentence is, I hope we don't give up, not hope, but we just can't do that. Many colleagues and colleagues spoke today about prevention, the fact is that the fight against addiction goes naturally through prevention. What we can read from this report is that we are a little short of the evaluation of these preventive programmes because if we do not have the evaluation of the programme then we will have a very difficult time implementing prevention because we do not really know what is the preventive programme and a good preventive programme. Whether it's just a good idea on paper, and then when it's tried to get through the system it just becomes inconclusive. Why am I saying that? Because yesterday evening we discussed the report of the Croatian Olympic Committee and here we all agreed that there was a wonderful preventive program, and therefore it's called school sport, and in reality it's inconclusive, it didn't come to life, it didn't come to life in the way that we all expected it to be. I think sport is one of the best prevention programs in the treatment of any addiction and we have to work together to make sure that these and similar programs actually find their way and live, that they don't actually stay a dead letter on paper. They're firmly imagined on paper, but when we try to put them in the system somewhere something gets lost and they never actually come back to life. There are programs that work perfectly, and I have to stress that, let's say, that program that caused the storm when it was introduced, and it actually showed that it was excellent, which is why it's the replacement of needles and syringes, which today shows that it's extremely good that we have, therefore, introduced such a program which, therefore, reduced the prevalence of hepatitis b and HIV, while hepatitis c is still, we haven't been able to deal with it, but I am deeply hoping that these programs will actually lead to a better health condition for our addicts. What else I want to share with you here, and today there's been a little talk, let's just say, we're all based on prevention, which is absolutely fine, but I want to share with you a few thoughts about resociation. I think resociation is extremely important in the treatment and prevention at the end of the story, addiction. So we had young people who succeeded, I hope they get to the phase of resociation. And I'm going to share with you one of my experiences and one of the experiences of a young man who's been in the drug world, he's been a communal for 2.5 years, after which he's been two years, which he would say clean and free. Currently working in a multi-clerosis society, so it helps our people who are suffering from multiplesclerosis, has a girl who is also a former addict, who is currently at the end of college. So what happened now? I just wanted to show you what life looks like. It happened that he was sentenced to 1.5 years in prison for a piece he did 10 years ago. And now I'm asking all of us here, so we have a man who's been clean for 5, 5, 5 years, who's ready for a new life, he's got a chance for a new life, this country, this society has invested in him, when we've already mentioned money, money because it's money, it's all money. And then it happens that instead of giving him a chance, we put him back in prison, where he very honestly told me, "I'm not sure what I'm going to get out of there after 1.5 days of prison." If he gets into the drug world again, he'll come out as an addict, he'll be left by a girl, the question is what happens to that family of his. So I actually think that our system has to recognize this case and we all have to work together to actually make it possible for these people, and give life a chance because otherwise this resociation remains a dead letter on paper. In fact, we're going to invest big money, we're going to put a lot of effort into resociating young people, and then at some point something is going to happen that's going to bring us back to the beginning, and maybe even worse from the beginning. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18896	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First colleague, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18897	Thank you very much. My colleague, you're saying that preventive programs never come back to life. Well, of course, when a lot of these programs and a lot of these people started those programs just for their own personal interest and all that money that was located on them spent on their own needs. Did the club, did the associations, did the board. But it's an honor to make exceptions. Also, you said it was important to prevent but it's more important to reassociate. It's kind of like watching a kid play with some kind of chemical agent that's poisonous. You know that this child will poison the team and then as a responsible parent you will prepare the keys and car so that you can take that child to the hospital to show how caring you are. Instead of moving that poison in the first place that the child can't get to it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18898	Replication response, Ana Comparić Devčič.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18899	Thank you, Vice President. Maybe I wasn't clear. Maybe she didn't understand me. I'm absolutely for prevention. First of all. But I said that I had to share with you the experience of resociation because I think such programs are equally important, equally important, not important, equally important – because it's the possibility of bringing man back to life. I mean, I hope you understand me. I'm not saying that resociation is more important than prevention. No, the other way around. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18900	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18901	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Comparić Devčić and I also noticed this observation about prevention. And I agree with you that prevention is never enough. It is also clear that there is no review in Croatia in some way of preventive activities and that this should be done. I agree with you also that sport is the one that can absolutely help in that part. But I must warn, I must say that in that part of sports, not everyone is equal. In rural areas, in rural areas, in order to engage in sports, it must have terms and conditions of the sports hall and other things. Unfortunately, the tax policy of the local self-government unit is very poor and will not be able to build these halls that should take at least a hundred or a few hundred to be able to play sport quality. If we add the next thing to it – that people are in the country today and extremely difficult, that we are witnessing protests of milkers who cannot. These young people are frustrated, and they are indeed in grave danger. And also, if I can't deal with sports, if they have a complex economic situation, I think it's an extremely big problem that needs to be mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18902	Thank you. Next in the debate, counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18903	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable representatives of ministries, representatives, colleagues and colleagues! We've heard a lot today, and I believe we'll hear a lot about drugs by the end of the day. It's good to know that those who do drugs are watching us, too, and their parents are eating drugs. Both of them and resociation and discipline, scientific approaches at the moment won't help much. They'll be more based on this national strategy. I think it's well done, that it's done very well because in the 22 years of the Croatian state, this is the third national strategy. And to those who don't think there's a lot of work in this field, I say they're wrong, because it's completely referenced to reference centres, county centers, municipalities, cities, schools, churches and associations. The national strategy is actually set up here to reduce supply and demand for drugs, and we've heard the same amount of money actually there. And where the money is there's both profit and war on drugs we'll hardly win. As a society, we work hard, and I have no doubt that we didn't do it in that institutional sense, and we gave our maximum that we could. And that's what we're all about today and through this debate, we're all unique. Maybe not with light drugs or not, it should always be noted that the addict doesn't start with a needle, he starts with the first joint. But I will use this debate and say or rather remind us all of what is fundamental to us and of that we flee as individuals or as a society. In Croatian society, the values are reversed. We mock the fundamental values of this society, family, community, faith and work, we see our failures too late, realizing that we could influence it. Dear colleague Kosor talked about it and reminded us of the Family Law, we witnessed it two weeks ago what happened in Zagreb. But not only in Zagreb, similar reactions existed in both Split and smaller towns where your parents knew that their children as minors should not be so late outside, they were, first of all, offended by the people who brought them into police stations. or active police officers. Therefore, child rearing begins with the conception and behavior of his mother. Mother's life is completely passed on to the child because it's actually the same life. The birth of a child is infinite happiness. Unfortunately, we buy love for a child whatever we shouldn't — from the stamps of the famous carts, as if it were conscious. But it's not enough for parents. It is therefore important to say that parents and kindergartens work on aunts where their child will sit, who they will associate with, what they will eat, what they will sing or play because aunts do not know – that is what mothers decide. At school, it must have all five, because teachers don't know anything anyway. Parents' assessment is a measure of knowledge. The religious teaching might be better off if they don't go because the priests are pedophiles anyway. About adolescence or before, we are scattered in the purchase of any gifts – from cell phones and beyond, although this is not necessary for children. We're already at a crisis, at least down in Dalmatia, buying bikes, scooters. When they're at prom, they're supposed to have a driver's license or a car, because they're going on foot or they're going on suffocating trams or buses. The prom exams are too heavy, the teachers don't know it, they're living up to their kids, let's try to buy them. College, you don't need to study, you don't need to take exams, you just need to find money to buy a diploma. If we add more media, selebrites, styles that are being celebrated today in our society and others, today they are socially acceptable models and this is actually an excellent way to the world of drugs. A colleague in Germany told me, says when I read your newspaper, believe me, I don't know who's going to invest in this country when it's all negative for you, when you're only talking about negative examples, because there are no positive examples, we're spreading only pessimism, and it affects people who are or are on the road to drugs. In this way, we earn everything and believe it or not it's the way society is being valued and destroyed. We need to talk about it. Everything relativates, I also told Don Ivan today when you single out an individual from society then it's easier to manipulate her, because that's also the goal of global powers. If you look at it now, and that's what my colleague Glavak said on behalf of HDZ, 31 million kuna is secured for this national strategy, and only methadone processing in the Republic of Croatia 42 million kuna, and I think it makes everything, but absolutely all of this national strategy to reduce the demand for drugs and drug consumption. Everything a child sees, hears, or experiences in his natural environment and family environment affects his personality, creation, and behavior more or less. Breeding doesn't make perfect people, but people, we need to remember that. A healthy spirit in a sick body, or a sick spirit in a healthy body, certainly not desirable, they are tragic. From all of this, we have paved the way for young people to do drugs. Drugs are addictive and should be taken seriously, and those in their family who have problems with drugs are best aware of that. None of the addicts, I repeat, have started with a needle. People give up drugs most often because of disturbed family relationships, feelings of abandonment, curiosity, low self-esteem, emotional maturity, and our tenacity to distract him from the right values. In Croatia, work will sooner or later start to be valued, work is a man's destiny, and choice of what to do, as well as responsibility for what fate is done are important issues. But working habits can only be created by work, from advice, correction, and speech without work, there is nothing. With work and the problem of addiction, we must be solid, and we have an obligation to stand up for a man, especially one who is in need. If we understand our parental, educational, but also this political call in this way, then the 2012 and 2017 strategy will be easier to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18904	Thank you. Three replicas to your exposure. First Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18905	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I think we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18906	A microphone. She's making a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18907	So, I think we can work hard until we're exhausted, that we can do a lot of work, but if we go from wrong assumptions, there's no result. No results. You may be satisfied with these strategies that from year to year from middle term to middle term repeat the same thing, a few percent up, a few percent down. Unfortunately, one year, several deceased, others more deceased. I have to tell you that I belong to those who don't care. I'm interested in the following, to try to make a different approach, to go change, to try to change that strategy. Let's go to some more radical challenges. Let's talk about it a little bit differently, because we're going to spend 30, 40 million again, and we're going to meet up next year on the same story, and we're not going to have any more significant results. I know we can't have the same results every year in prevention and repression. Let's concentrate on one problem in one year, in the other on the other, but for that we have to make valid assumptions, otherwise we'll keep trying, we'll still sweat, and we'll spend money, and then we'll realize there's no major shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18908	The answer to the replica Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18909	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, colleague Lucin, I have no doubt, I don't believe there's any movement at all. There's a certain shift, and it's visible to this national strategy as well. Of course, what you're saying now, if your parents listen to you, especially those parents whose children are addicts, they'll never and never agree with what you say, and I'm personally against all radicalisms, and even radicalism may be the one that you advocate or I at least understood that we're trying with the easy drugs so that we can move on to those harder drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18910	Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18911	So I think you'll agree with me that there are no easy and difficult drugs, and I think that's the first and the basic thing that needs to be cleared up here, and that we can't decriminalize either easy or heavy drugs because there are new types of drugs, new kinds of addictions, that's exactly what the point of the problem is, and even in this national strategy. But a clear question that concerns the very future of children who are daily, so they are at risk of just the beginning of addiction. You have a case that society invests in a lot of money and prevention, and I agree there is much to be expected from units of local self-government that often and do not have the opportunity to participate with larger funds, society invests in the treatment of certain addicts, but always asks the question, and I put it in that debate in the name of the club that happens when this addict is cured, whether it's a simple way and I think it's simple for him to show his courage to betray whoever first gave him the drugs, that this dealer is because there is a repressive apparatus, I don't know if the police have that kind of authority to push him well to get to the end of that chain, and we'll see very quickly that in that chain that chain there is somewhere in the repressive apparatus itself. I think we should pay a great deal of attention to this Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18912	Thank you. The answer to the replica Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18913	Well, my colleague Vinkovic, of course, that we agree that in local administration and self-government units we do a lot of work and drug prevention, but we can put a zero tolerance rate on drugs, that would be the best thing for minors. Today, however, we have problems related to the purchase of alcohol or cigarettes for minors. So I ask myself, and I ask you here what our responsibility is, how much did we actually do to report anyone who does? Unfortunately, we don't, it's allowed. It's actually one road that leads to grants if you go on that drug trip. And I repeat again all those who are on that path, especially their families, know what they're going through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18914	And the last replica of Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18915	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Babic totally agrees, and you said it very well that the time has come today to mock the fundamental values of general life. And indeed that is the truth which is in today, and you have spoken well. It's not like having more kids, they're making fun of families with 5 and more today, with 9 and more kids, and I'm not even gonna talk about it. They're said to be backwards. Today he makes fun of those who don't have, and you're surprised you're incompetent, you don't. And of course living today in families that are weaker property is a shame, and a child should be fought and the child should know as one of those books and the title "A piece of bread and a nice word." How good can that be in your heart? What can move you to do? It's true, it may sound a little archaic today, but it's precisely what you said that we're making fun of today and that we've replaced and mocked the very basic values that we've taught and taught us and the faith that our own taught us, so I have to say both family and all those who influenced us to become human.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18916	Replication response, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18917	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. twilight, I might still be adding one thing I'm not in my debate, but you encouraged me to do something, so I'm gonna say it now. Many of us parents, because of our daily obligations, are happy to have those computers in our homes so that children may be interested in certain games, that is, so that they can spend their time behind them. But today we are already in a situation both in the world and in our homeland that the Internet is creating a big problem for us in society. Children who spend more time in front of computers are socially blocked, and their creativity is not to be talked about because it is destroyed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18918	Thank you. Next up for the debate of counterparts Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18919	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representative of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. So here I will agree with colleagues and colleagues who have previously said that drugs and addiction are the monsters of the modern era and I would agree that in the health system in the Republic of Croatia, with the threat I believe that addictions are the worst problems. Today we are discussing here the National Action Plan and the strategy to combat drug abuse and I would like to point out that the National Strategy has 6 fundamental areas, which is the coordination of the reduction of supply and demand for drugs, monitoring, information system, research and evaluation and international co-operation. I will agree here with my colleague Babic and say that just reducing the demand for drugs is one of the ways that we can solve this problem because we live in a society that handles some fundamental economic principles, which is that the offer always exists if there is demand. If we cut the demand then it will necessarily lead to a reduction in the offer I sincerely hope for. But let me also, as colleagues before me, specifically refer to prevention. I'm going to use one formulation that may sound utilitated if we only look at it on the financial side, but the fact is that one kuna that's invested in prevention is 4 saved kunas at a recovery, or one kuna that's spent in preventive programs are 4 saved kunas in later recovery, treatment, aiding addicts and so forth. We are also aware that there is a National Programme for Prevention of Dependence for Children and Youth in the Educational System as well as education and information for children and young people and all interested public on the harmful effects of drugs. But I'm afraid it's too small. Namely, our education system is increasingly down to the pure educational system. So there is no educational element, and as the colleague said, the educational element should come and perhaps from some other sources, but I'll talk about it later. What I was about to say is that what concerns me most is the alarming state between the school population and among the young people who are also the most exposed to this honor. So let me just give some information that we could read from this report. So the data relating to the consumption of nicotine products suggests that boys, so we're talking here about young people, or children of 11.13.15 years, so boys experiment a little earlier than girls, and the prevalence of experimentation among boys is just more than 11 and 13 years old. But what is worrying is that by the age of 15, there is no gender difference anymore. So that girls spend nicotine products as much as boys, which has not been the case so far. The prevalence of drinking, i.e. alcohol abuse in children, is in relative stagnation in all age groups, but relatively, that is what worries. A total of 16% of boys and 11% of 15-year-old girls responded in research that at least once in their lives they tried marijuana. Thus, if we compare it to the 2006 data when 17% of boys and 11% of girls responded, so we can get to a slight 1% drop, but that's also too little, especially if we take it to happen only in the boy population, so male, and not among girls. After prevalencing, drinking in the last month Croatia is in 7 places of ESPAT countries, in spending nicotine products in the last 30 days Croatian youth are in 3 places, with 41% So this is all the information that calls for alert, all the data that actually says that our young people are very exposed to this monster, how our prevention measures there need to still do their job. What should be pointed out is that there is also no systematic review of the monitoring of preventive activities carried out in the Republic of Croatia. I would therefore certainly like to commend that the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse during 2011 has developed a database for the prevention of addiction in order to gain insight into preventive activities. It should also be pointed out that there are several aspects of prevention, so above all an environment strategy based on the assumption that some individuals are actually encouraged by their environment, so the people and the societies in which they move, to try drugs, or to get in touch with it. This isolation, therefore, leads to a reduction in the impact of the environment on the individual exposed to drug abuse. Universal prevention is therefore a prevention that is carried out in all populations. Selective prevention also exists among vulnerable groups, also indicated prevention against persons who show behaviour associated with the individual high risk of developing drug abuse. There are national and local media campaigns that promote, or educate the public about drug harm. And so in this report we could read that there are a whole series of measures, even some NGOs, units of local self-government, it's just the state administration, etc. ... if we're talking about universal prevention, skills training, promotion of alternative opinions strategies, social skills training, community support, choose sports, say drugs not so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's always a question, is that true, or is that enough? A colleague, Babić, said in his presentation, at least that's how I realized it, that the situation in society is in some way an incentive to take drugs. And yes, I can agree on that. That it certainly has an impact on the family, parents, schools, and all of us dear colleagues and colleagues as neighbors, aunts, uncles, as older people in whom young people look at the pattern, we need to give this role model and help them and work to create a positive environment in our society. So every single person here can contribute. I would not agree that repression is always the only key to solving this situation. I'll give you an example from history, it's an example of prohibition in the United States when alcoholic beverages were banned. One sociologist in a serious study of this period said that in the United States, alcohol was never used again but during the period of prohibition. Forbidden fruit, as they say, is always the cutest. Don't get me wrong, so I'm not into legalizing drugs, but I also hold that an over-repressive apparatus can't help it. My colleague was talking about celibates, real personalities that often propagate drug use. I wouldn't agree with that, I'd say even if some of the celibates were a walking drug commercial. See, let's say the Rolling Stones look like after years and years of drinking and abuse of intoxicating comrades. I wouldn't exactly say they look good, and then our young or Ozzy Osburn anyway. Then we can ask our youngsters do you want to look like that under your old days? I think a lot of people will say they don't want to. Mostly to bring my discussion to an end, to praise all the actions and plans to be used, so in an effort to reduce the abuse of intoxicating drugs, but also alcohol, tobacco products and everything else, and to have a really healthy spirit in a healthy body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18920	Four replicas to your exposure. Zlatko Komadina first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18921	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, she astounded me on this replica of this issue about the offer and demand of counterpart Hajdukovic. I agree, otherwise, by the logic of things if demand is less that then no offer, is it going to shrink, but in fact it should also be vice versa and the offer should not be easily available, as it is available worldwide today, and of course in Croatia. So on that subject, I'm going to say a little bit of a word, and from personal experience in cooperation with police administration for years, namely, we spend a lot of resources on various forms of drug abuse, means prevention, and treatment, as well as repression. I feel like we're spending the least on repression. And why am I saying that? Therefore, at least the employees and at least the resources of the police departments are able to halve much more of these dealers, of course not those who consume the most often recruit those midline dealers among consumable consumers, they are not the subject of processing and should not, of course, be the subject of prison sentences, but those involved in organised crime can be reached, only need more employees. Every school when you get to the next drug trail, you'll get to the one who's been doing the drugs at the end and unpacking. But I'd say a little bit of a word that is actually a thin thread between what's starting to be a harder drug or those opiates that are actually socially acceptable. So as far as I know, alcohol is legal, nicotine i.e. The cigarettes are legal, and the first ones mention the wine from the Bible, and that's how they turn water into wine, is it all expensive? And by the way, a lot of works of art have been created right on display, not to mention drinking. It's like that in life, that's all we need to know. Baudelaire still said in his famous collection of Evil Flowers... Fold with wine, or poetry, or firmness. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, opacity is something that is an integral part of man's beings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18922	Thank you very much, dear colleague Komadina. The next replica is Gyurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18923	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's young colleague Hajdukovic, I say young because he is and I'm glad I listened to your debate today and I really agree with you. I wanted to further contribute to your debate and say that all these educations and all of our strategies that were still bearing fruit. And when one or two or ten of them were removed from the needle and moved to the treatment, it was all bearing fruit. I just wanted to say more about a study that was done in Zagreb, and why in Zagreb? In Zagreb, the largest number of drug addicts are treated, I guess because there are therefore institutions that are, but here it has been proven that it is not the largest number of users. Are there dealers here? I guess it is, the center is here, so I'm sure there is. However, here is what has been revealed by the analysis of waste water consumption in Zagreb. The drug consumption rate in Zagreb is relatively low compared to larger Western European cities. Much less cocaine is spent, methamphemamine, marijuana consumption is similar to that in Milan, and it has shown an analysis of the municipal waste water of 19 European cities. This was about a research approach initiated by the Norwegian Research Institute and by the Milan Institute, where Ruđer Boskovic also participated. Well, after this study in reality, it is suggested that these tests are done because the analysis of these wastewaters overall shows the state. We may still be satisfied because here we are not that we are not the worst but we are far below the level of those worst ones such as Antwerp, Barcelona, Amsterdam and some other European cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18924	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18925	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I am very pleased that we have a consensus and that is to say that we agree on this thing that is extremely important, but in just one small part, I would really disagree with you that we can be a little content. We can't be happy for me, even if we're so low, considering we're comparing ourselves to Western countries. So our goal should be to bring it down to a minimum, not to say almost zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18926	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18927	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic spoke about prevention and I agree in that part absolutely that prevention is never enough mainly regarding this younger age population. And in that part, you have rightly realized that unfortunately this life span is going down towards addictions and that, of course, there are both girls and boys, the same thing you were talking about, and in that part, you certainly need to make additional efforts. But I want to say in what way, that's where we disagree thoroughly. How do you think? A relatively relatived approach, so now it's easy drugs, heavy drugs, as we've heard from certain colleagues, doesn't contribute because it's a young population that accepts it. You were also talking about role models. And the other thing about the approach and the very health care that is now being spoken of is the big bells that he is truly revolutionary, how much he will bring I testify that there are some things that are being imposed on others. I believe that we have the same thing to say on this side as my colleague Babic said in a way that can be accessed, and this approach will not contribute to that basic message of yours healthy spirit in a healthy body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18928	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18929	Thank you very much. My colleague Milinkovic, I did not say that there are easy and heavy drugs, I would say that there are socially acceptable and socially unacceptable. Here's a colleague of the Comadin said that nicotine, or tobacco, alcohol is also some kind of opiates that are socially accepted. So, which are legal. On the other hand, you have the ones that are illegal. I'm still standing by to say that repression is not necessarily the only key to solving this. And I'm going to give you just one more anecdote from everyday life, so those signs on tobacco products that we find -- smoking kills, if you smoke during breast-feeding, it can affect a child, etc., my fellow who's a passionate smoker when he buys cigarettes if a saleswoman gives him cigarettes that says that smoking reduces sperm mobility says give me the one with breast-feeding. So it came to him, and he's well aware of the harmful influence, and I believe it will ultimately motivate him and stop smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18930	And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18931	The esteemed fellow Rolling Stones are here somewhere over 70 years old and still around them are those groups of girls, and otherwise the devils still play well, but here's the thing about Rolling Stones and what they had in their history, same as the Beatles, etc., LSD and so on, but I just want to, and I support everything you've said, and with that prevention, I would say one system of education both in primary school, and I said in kindergarten, but above all in the family, so that prevention should go from small feet, but also these money must be invested in repression, because regardless, we can educate, spend money on treatment of addiction if in every town we don't know how many dealers who are still standing in front of each school, dealing with this drug, nothing happens to them, because someone has a feeling that they're practically protected by someone. At the same time, the family becomes the only victim, new kinds of addictions occur, it is mostly gambling, where it comes to even the same as in drug abuse, drug addiction, criminal crimes, etc., and we have witnessed that many children therefore, and I don't understand how a 15-year-old child can go to the city at 11 o'clock in the night life and return at hours in the morning. So they say they're all going, I don't see any reason that any parent in Croatia, and that's the problem, not now in Zagreb, in Split, that's the problem in Djakov, that his 14 or 15-year-old kid comes out at 11 o'clock in the evening and comes back at 5 am, and... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18932	Thank you. Replication response, Domagoj Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18933	Thank you. Well, my colleague, in principle, we agree, maybe you just misunderstood me, I didn't say that the repressive apparatus shouldn't exist, though. But what I wanted to point out is that repression is not the only way to solve it. And I agree with you, however, that drug dealers must not feel protected, especially individuals who, with the intention of selling drugs, are consciously doing so, are dealing with it, they should certainly be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18934	We're continuing the debate. It's Dunja Spoliar's turn. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18935	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a national strategy to combat drug abuse, which is clearly diagnosed in the face of prevention of child and youth addiction, has not been made sufficient progress, and that addiction prevention programmes are implemented periodically, segmented and without effective evaluation. In doing so, it is important to cultivate a multidisciplinary approach and to develop different forms of cooperation between institutions, including, of course, institutions for education and education. Since the largest number of children and young people are covered by this educational system, preventive activities should be included in the annual plan and programme of schools, and other educational institutions, education on addictions should be an integral part of the curricula. Since a whole series of my speakers spoke of school prevention, or education, I will be completely specific. So we can all get together now what the situation was in the previous school year and how many teaching topics meant preventing drug addiction and adding up to our fingers. In short the teaching topics were the following: nature and society fourth grade, my body, understand the harmfulness of addiction, nature sixth grade, puberty, changes and difficulties in maturation, addiction. The seventh class of Catholic religious teachings, which is an electoral object and is not necessary, does not mean that there have been traps of modern addiction, addiction, and drugs. The eighth class of German, or French language, is a topic of culture and subculture of young people, fashion and fashion trends, style of dress, addiction and their causes, and a key structure... Biology eighth grade, addictions and key concepts of drug abuse and then election chemistry, which does not cover the entire population of addiction, narcotics, physical seventh and eighth grade, history of eighth grade Croatia and the world on the threshold of the third millennium with the key concept of drug abuse. [[The speech room speaks German, no translation.]] Unfortunately, that was all. But schools also have school preventive addiction programs. School preventive programmes have been implemented since 1997. The year and obligation of each school is to adopt a preventive programme which is an integral part of the school's annual plan and programme at the beginning of the school year, in accordance with its specific features. The aim of the establishment of school preventive programmes is to carry out concrete activities in schools during the pedagogical year aimed at preventive action towards national strategies and programmes such as the one we are talking about today, as well as the specificities of the institution. The school preventive program, except for the students, includes teachers, but also parents, so I also underline my parents. For successful implementation is important teamwork, cooperation between teachers, parents and others who deal with children and young people. Various forms of professional training at expert meetings, advisory work with students and parents, good information on trends in drug consumption in the local environment, and includes quality organisation and high quality teaching. And when it comes to high-quality performance of teaching work again in this assembly of education, education and education of teaching staff, i.e. teachers, and indirectly students and parents. Cooperation. So, in the meantime, new contents have entered the schools, so since this school year, health education has a module called first grade addiction prevention. So the prevention of first class addiction implies two hours, in the second two, in the third one, and in the fourth three hours, and not counting further. In addition to the prevention of first class addiction, it involves two hours, in the second two, in the third one and in the fourth three hours and not counting further. In addition to health care, there is a civil education that goes experimentally to six schools and raises for democratic citizenship that will direct young people into their rights, freedoms and above all in responsibility and teach them how to fight these challenges. Following all of this, it would be good if the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse concreteised preventive action in the system of education, stimulated the implementation of educational and preventive topics on addiction in all teaching subjects and contents, therefore in the curricula, as well as in the curriculum and programme, and highlighted the forms of inter-resorship cooperation. In this light, we look forward to an action plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18936	Thank you, too. We have a replica. Here you go, Comrade Commander.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18937	Only in two sentences. On the trail of my dear colleague's discussion, I'd like to say that at prevention we have the infrastructure exactly what my colleague said, which is the education system. So primary and secondary schools at that age, and that population is actually that population that can happen to slip into the world of drugs. So, while we are in the stage of education and education, let's say, if we're going to do less in the family, even if that's not the case, education at school, then I don't see any reason why it's not being introduced as a mandatory subject, and we already have the proposal and initiative of our fellow Minister Jovanovic, some kind of medical education or what he already called it, in which it would be taught – about sexual education, about the prevention of violence. Therefore, never enough, especially when exposure is so much, then there must be the possibility that these young people will hear about it all in one correct way. So, I'm in favour of being a mandatory class in schools, not any election or something that's been up until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18938	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Spoliar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18939	I would just point out once again that health education has been introduced since September of the month to all schools, that it is obliged and that it has a module called prevention of addiction, but that it will continue to expand and that it will be updated depending on us and on all the employees in the education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18940	Thank you. We have another replica. Comrade Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18941	Dear colleagues, I would really agree with you that first of all not only through school, so through a system of education and education, but this education, so the first education begins in the family. First of all, it should be done especially in all environments but also provided with material resources. So you can't go into any system without certain material resources. I also think about local self-government units, and I also think about schools that don't have any elemental resources at the moment to even maintain their material costs because there's been a reduction in that mini tax reform and there's been a decrease in that share of decentralised funds. Many units of local self-government have also established prevention councils and are systematically working not only on education but on the prevention of all possible consequences not only of these addictions but also of other addictions of which they are really crawling. However, I again argue that one big problem, so systematic education must be related to both the family and the school and the church who is a believer and to the whole society and right within the family must be those healthy foundations. Again I ask the question, to all Croatian families, to all parents, who has this responsibility? Regardless of which, on this Family Law, send a child to the street at eleven o'clock in the evening and allow him, therefore, a child who is underage, to allow him to come at five o'clock in the morning or to come the next morning. I don't get it. When the chacha told me, I was fourteen or 15 or until I finished high school, you have to come home at twelve o'clock! Come on, don't come home! And the beating didn't just come out of heaven but was present. The kid's calling Blue Phone today. [[/Upadica Batinić: Col. Vinkovic, fourteen seconds, fifteen, sixteen. You're done.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18942	Next to discuss Ruža Tomasic. Here you go, pals!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the Republic of Croatia, there was a steady trend in the number of people treated for drug abuse. According to all indicators in the Republic of Croatia, the supply of drugs has increased in recent years, which has become more diverse. The availability of drugs has also increased, leading to an increased trend in drug consumption, especially among young people. Children aged up to fourteen years are 17.1 young and aged 15 to 29 years 20.25 of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, all children and young people account for 37.35% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. And we swear to those children that they are our future and that we are responsible for them, but that responsibility has nothing to do with it. As colleagues used to say, we let young people stay out as long as they want, cafes work till 5:00 a.m.... I talked to the kids who go out so late and say that they'd love to stop working till one o'clock in the morning to come home, the bar owners say they'd like to close up at the latest and be at home with their families, estrada says they'd like to be at home too. And where's the problem then? It means there's a problem in the government, in the government! If everyone wants the cafes closed for about an hour, the singers wouldn't want to sing, the bar owners wouldn't want to work, and where do we see the problem? Or someone deliberately destroying the family, and we know that the family... Guys. [[You don't understand.]] According to research and epidemiological data, the number of drug addicts in the Republic of Croatia since the 1990s has been on a steady rise in pre-war years. There is a constant rate of 81.9% among most opiate addicts treated. By the end of 2010, in the register of persons treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, 30 thousand 290 people were registered for abuse of psychoactive drugs. However, over the observed period, another thousand to a thousand 400 people were treated in the treatment communities, and annually about a thousand 400 people of all criminal status for the crime of drug abuse remain in prisons and penitentiary. And now if we multiply what's real three times, we get the right number of addicts, which is scary. In 2001, the number of people treated for drug abuse addiction increased by 27% compared to 2002, 2000. In 2002 compared to 2001, by 9.2% in order to reduce the number of people by 2.3% compared to 2002, which means that the total increase in the number of people in the treatment system from 200 to 2003 was about 34%, and every year a thousand to two and a half thousand new addicts appeared in the treatment system, so at most in 2001 when there were about 2 thousand 548 of them, a thousand 66 of them. From 2004 to 2008, the number of new people in the system grew slower and ranged from a thousand 619 in 2004, up to 2,000 and one in 2006. The number of new people who come for treatment due to opiate addiction is relatively stable and in the last few years it has moved about 800 per year on average. Most people treated for heroin about 76%, then for the abuse of marijuana about 13%, and the remaining funds were slightly represented. According to MIP, the largest heroin seized in the period 2000-2007 was achieved in 2004. One hundred and forty pounds, and this year, it's four kilos, and I hope it's also about reducing consumption, not reducing police work. The total number of seizures achieved was the largest in 2006, while the largest quantities of drugs were seized in 2007 when the largest quantities of cocaine were seized and 150kg. According to data provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in connection with the criminal offence of drug abuse committed by minors, a constant share of 4 to 5% of these offences has been observed in the total number of prosecuted offences referred to in Article 173. Penalty law. Further results... research for 2003 shows that Croatia is at the breadth of drug use in young people among European countries with rising trends. [[You don't understand.]] Croatia was on the average of European countries after taking marijuana in 1999, while in 2003 it was above the European average by 1%. The spread of ecstasy among young people is 4%, and Croatia is 8th in Europe after taking this drug. In 2007, as in most other European countries, there was a reduction in the use of ecstasy and the number of students who took marijuana at least once in their lives, but the number of young people who had trouble eating marijuana, i.e. they took 40 times more in their lives. Although they have spent 5% on boys, and 2% on girls, it is a concern that about three average high school classes are 5 boys and two girls who are problematicly using marijuana and who are extremely risky to develop addiction. Data... 2007 [[You don't understand.]] According to the ESPAD survey for the same year in the last 12 months, at least 84% of young people drank alcohol, while at least once in the last 12 months 43% of young people were drunk, which is more than the average of European countries participating in the survey. All this says that it is extremely important to develop addiction prevention programmes, aimed at preventing all forms of addiction and especially prevention of alcohol addiction, cigarettes and other remedies. In recent times, other forms of so - called “regular ” have become more common. Modern addictions, of which are the most significant dependence on gambling and dependence on the Internet, however, there are still no exact indicators on the spread of these issues among children and young people, and programmes for prevention of these forms of addiction are implemented as part of regular preventive programmes, mostly through the educational system, and the health system. It is important to keep in mind that they are legal drugs, i.e. alcohol and cigarettes for children and young people under the age of 18 are illegal, since the sale of these products to children and young people is prohibited by law, and therefore, in the implementation of these programmes, a more significant role needs to be taken over and a repressive system, especially the State Inspectorate, the police, the State's Attorney's Office and courts. Also the Law on Playmaking and... The games were prescribed by the system and conditions of playing games that included betting games, and it was valid until 1. January 2010. [[You don't understand.]] Years. The law prescribed that ownership and participation in betting games were allowed only to adult persons who proved their identity. With the new law on gambling, People's newspaper No. 87/2009. which entered into force on 1 January 2010, shall also be prohibited from receiving betting payments from persons under 18 years of age, and in the event of doubt in meeting these conditions, the player shall be obliged to provide the editor with proof of his adulthood. It can be argued that the most common reasons for drug abuse and other means of addiction among children and young people are the social affirmation by peer groups of personal problems, the pursuit of comfort, curiosity, family problems, unfavourable living conditions and ignorance. Young people in the adolescence period tend to express a subcultural rebellion against the value of adults and accept different trends that are more appropriate to their generation. Furthermore, children and young people whose parents are underly engaged in their education are prone to drug abuse, and increased drug consumption is present in children whose parents are overly strict or lenient in parenting. There is also an increased tendency to drugs among adolescents with impaired family relationships, as well as those whose family is characterised by lack of parental supervision and emotional closeness. In view of many factors affecting drug consumption and the emergence of addiction in young people, programmes to prevent addiction and work with children and young people should focus on developing more versatile interests, creativity and abilities, and create an opportunity for them to develop into people who will successfully behave all their roles. In addition, exceptional efforts need to be made to identify risk groups of children and young people, and those from a risky family and social environment, or those who show behavioural disorders and have started to consume addiction funds to prevent further use of these funds and the emergence of addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18944	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18945	Well, a distinguished colleague said that considering the work of the catering facilities, the singers, that they, themselves the caterers, would probably go to bed at 9:00 a.m., so she indirectly accused, probably all those who bring in that working time of the caterer. So I remember, here in my time, so while I was much, much younger, those catering facilities worked up to 1 hour a weekend, night bars worked until 3. It was not possible then, so as a child or a younger person of 18 years, to even look into that night bar. Given the development of tourism, we really can't go to that extreme, but I don't see the possibility at all, so if the child has parents, guardians or even that business-skilled woman, that this child who's underage leaves, so at 11 o'clock in the evening, when Tom and Jerry passed by and came home at 5 a.m. because night bars work up to 3 in Croatia, they don't work until 5:00 p.m. Or Balthazar or that Calimer, that's what I remember when I was young. So the problem is first and foremost related to the family. There was no family law at the time, but it was the law of mother and father, and they didn't need a law that would bring the Croatian Parliament together so they didn't know where the son or daughter was at all times. Today, and I don't advocate violence against children, but if a father slowly or a mother, gently slaps a child who, also through these media-instructed, will go, that blue phone and eventually the parents will suffer neither guilty nor debtor. There's the biggest problem in the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18946	Thank you. He had a reply to the replica. Comrade Tomasic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18947	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I said two, three times by twelve, one o'clock a.m., I don't believe you've heard me. It's not just about minors, it's about children from 18 and beyond, when they come home at 5 in the morning, and 6 in the morning, and then when you go, I can't go to mass, I can't have a family lunch and they were still at 5.6 in the morning. And I don't see, I really don't see any reason why these cafes would be open until 5:00 in the morning, and there's a lot of faith in Djakov, I know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18948	Thank you. ... We have the next line. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Mladen Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Tomasic mentioned police investigations on several occasions, in terms of prevention and everything else. But I wasn't here all the time, I was on the board, so I didn't hear anyone else mention it. We have the impression that there's a lot of visitors left, unscheduled, even by that mile with the police, with certain circles in the police, not in general with the police, but with individuals in the police. It's not just about listening, it's about the rope and the drug dealing, and at least how much I've been in this room today, it wasn't about that. There's another part, which wouldn't even call a rope, but those cops who are left on the street, if I didn't say if they were alone there, there's few of them, they have a situation that practically, they have to be touched into big beasts then it's smarter for him to move to the other side, pretend he didn't see something and the problem not that he stayed, the problem increases. And I don't know if anyone's mentioned it here today, the drug testing protocol in schools that, at the same time, has been heard of it, something's been going on, I have the impression that it's either dead now or completely dropped out of it, so I'm interested in it, did it show any bad results, or was it simply a lack of funds, a lack of goodwill or a lack of a third to continue with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18950	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Tomasic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18951	Thank you very much. Well, pal, I agree with you about the police, most of their bosses aren't behind them, if they do good then great, the police are great, if they do bad, then they're responsible for their own actions. And of course the cops are afraid because they don't know who his son is, who his daughter is. It's a small country. It's very well known who's in charge and what's going on. And as for prevention or testing, I was still in Parliament's 5th session, so they all mocked me that after, for enrolment in the first high school to test children for drugs, at 2:00 p.m. in the third grade. So every year it's tested, and then if you notice that a child started taking something, there's still time, because it takes 3 years for children to become addicts. So we'd spend a lot less money on these tests than when it's too late and when we're treating kids or their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18952	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18953	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, representatives of the government, i.e. the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. We all know the people's wisdom that says the tree bends when it's young. Now, starting with the universality of this wisdom and applying that wisdom to the National Strategy to combat drug abuse that we are talking about today, it is clear that children and young people are the segment of society to which the strategy should be focused. And it's primarily through addiction prevention programs. However, experience so far has shown that, in the area of prevention of addiction, we cannot be satisfied with the results achieved and, above all, because prevention programmes are conducted by campaign and occasionally, I would even say appropriate. The best way and way of effective prevention is to raise. Raising as a systematic continuous procedure, so raising a child in a way that there's no room for drugs in his life, raising him for life without drugs. Raising is the cheapest form of prevention, it costs nothing. The repression costs a lot. This formula of education is only achieved if the institutions for education and education and health care and social care and religious institutions and the police and the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary and civil society organisations and sports associations and the media and local communities are involved in education. I didn't mention one link in this list because I want to especially highlight it, because I want to especially emphasize it because it is absolutely the most important. That link is family, and that's where we all agreed, there's a consensus. So, the family is key, and unfortunately the families, but family education is becoming less and less. Parents are torn apart between daily struggles to ensure their existence in order to peoplesly say our daily bread, torture how to repay loans and how to provide their children with just such a perspective. There's less time, the family's together, and the kids are raised by living with children. So, every day as much as possible with the kids. So parents are getting less and less with children, or we can say they're almost not with children at all. Preschool children are in kindergartens up to 4, 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. Children of school age are in schools and what schools? With a whole day's stay. The whole day's stay is a higher standard in education, so in this educational process, however, the consequence of the day-to-day stay is that children are still less and less with parents. Furthermore, grandparents are in homes for elderly and powerless persons so that they cannot participate in child rearing even though it is very well known how positive their influence is. With one word, children do not raise their family or do it too little. Children are raised through their institutions, but children are raised mostly by the world through global, information and communication networks. And in this new division of social responsibility for raising young generations, it is clear that the greatest responsibility has been transferred to the education system because children starting from preschool age to students spend the most time in that system. We must again acknowledge that the education system is becoming less and less educational. We're actually wondering how long he's been raised, and it certainly has to change. The introduction of health education by the current authorities into the education system since the beginning of this pedagogical year is an excellent move, but according to the first feedback received from the health care system has not been given its right place, and then the effects can not be satisfactory. Of course these are the first steps in implementing this measure, but it's important to set things right at the beginning. Namely, as it is now imagined health care should be realized by that large part through class community classes, and then by some other hours. When you ask children what they do in class class classes, then you get, so in the context of this introduced health education, then you get the answer that nothing really changes. The class continues to justify the absences or solves some other problems of the class community. About drugs, about preventive action, not a word. Clearly, teachers are absolutely the most important link in the process of raising children, but what teachers? Only educated teachers can educate, better say raising children, implement drug addiction prevention programs. So health education is an excellent model of prevention, but with certain assumptions, with certain requirements. So, to be permanent and to be realized by educated, competent teachers who act in this sense in front of the institution but to a large extent replace parents, compensate for this lack of family education, which is why we will all agree on a huge responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18954	Thank you, too. We have three reported replicas, the first one is Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, this is how you guys said at one point, actually it provoked me to react, raising doesn't cost anything. This education that we are talking about for this purpose is costing because additional contents are necessary for the child to complete his day so that it is not too exposed to these very dangers that unfortunately lurk upon him. To fulfill this content, it is not enough to bring such a strategy, this strategy is commendable but one small segment within that entire section of which unfortunately shows how many mistakes we have made so far, so we have a constant lack of sports halls that are in school, which are within some schools, which are available to these children, and have gone with some megalomanic projects of some arenas that are staring at us empty, which fall into the dubiosis, which are behind them all, instead of solving this particular problem, which would allow for additional content to those children. To do such a thing, in order to bring something like this to an end successfully, I think that a national strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia, whose component this was, would then not be seen in a partial way as far as drug control is concerned or this part would be part of it. Not a strategy, a strategy against drugs wouldn't come down to that partial part, and people who do commendable work, can just figure it out, but look at this part is beyond my means, this part is outside us, look it's the Ministry of Education, it's the Ministry of This, the Ministry of That. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18956	I'm sorry, colleague, too late. We have the next replica of Ivanka Roksandić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Jelash, that part of your debate where you said that family education is the most important thing I fully sign with you. You've also made a good point about the education at school, really in the 1980s because of all possible reforms, we've left the education at all, that word was not mentioned at all in primary, high school, but you've made a good point, and I'm glad that you've established it, that there's been a lot of noise about the introduction of health education, and that he really hasn't experienced his application now, it's not this school year. He was segmentary, and this is what counterpart Dunja Špoljar used to say, introduced in several hours, but today nobody mentioned one subject that today is still in the curriculum and the program, I speak in an old title because we still have a curricula and a program, which is also called the subject of physical and health culture, which in large part we forget from all sports activities that health part of that programme, which contains in itself the prevention of addiction, and the reduction of aggression in children's violence. As it is carried out, it is questionable, but I can tell you that most teachers, teachers, both in primary and secondary schools are very much due to the situation in which they are in school daily at school with children do not just ignore the part they often think they are neglecting, but are stressing that health care. It's obviously not enough. For all the reasons that you've listed, where the family is, where the society is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18958	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Nadia Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18959	Thank you very much. Well, I'm extremely pleased that you're the principles of this issue of implementing, or realising this health care education, or health care, physical health care. So from our colleges come the professors of health and physical culture, but it's interesting what they say. So recently I just heard from a professor of physical and health culture that he said that one part of his teaching program can't be implemented at all. You know why? Because children are no longer in physical condition to perform certain exercises. And you know why? I repeat the question in continuity. Because they sit too much in front of computers, in front of screens, they don't move, they Pope everything they shouldn't. So today you have to search for a child who can climb a rope.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18960	Thank you. And the next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Jelash spoke about prevention, and in any case I noticed it, and I agree in most of what you said, mostly in the part where you said that the family has to play a major role anyway, but it's also the fact that all these families are today many families are very difficult existential opportunities, and almost every day are struggling with these problems and many times they don't get to solve these problems that they should be. The second thing, you said that we should all engage in this prevention, so you mentioned religious institutions. I'm afraid I have to convince you that's not the case. And I am this health education that you have spoken of, and it denies the values that are fueled by religious institutions. I watched a part of it, where the authors of health care where he says it's high time for homosexualism to enter schools, etc. I've seen some things that I say in that medical education. And the third thing that you mentioned, that they're educational workers, that they must also be educated. They are in the same situation as these families, many of them are struggling with existential problems, you see for yourself what happens to education, and in that part I see that one link that is very important that, it will be very difficult to overcome because unfortunately it has to fight these other circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18962	Thank you. We have a response to Nadia Jelash's replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18963	I agree with you colleagues, therefore, that educational workers share the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is really difficult for everyone, and they are somehow afraid that this is not a good thing that I'm going to say is actually the worst in all of this. But I always say and believe that one huge number, and even all the educators agree that it's actually an enlightening call, that it's not a job. So it's not an occupation that people deal with, it's just a call that lives. Of course it's not for anyone, and it can't be for anyone's sake that the wages are the way they are, but you heard the Prime Minister, they're the first on the list when there's better time to raise their wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18964	Thank you. We have the next debate, Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what we've been discussing all morning, but I think that's one of the most important issues right now in the whole of society. When you read all these documents that we have received and the previous strategy and this current third strategy, and the report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan, I ask myself one question that is not available in all these documents and what else is missing, which we should do to reduce the emergence of addiction in young people. And today we also heard from colleagues and colleagues that new addictions are emerging, internet addiction, betting addiction, gambling addiction. So, with everything that's come to us, there are new addictions. We cannot say that this strategy has not been developed under all the rules of the strategy, the tasks of individual ministries and bodies of the state administration, units of local self-government, civil society, on the programme primarily of demand, drug supply, prevention of addiction, treatment and psychosocial treatment of drug addiction. Today, too, the question was raised. The problem of addiction is primarily related to the availability of drugs. In Croatia as well as in Europe, there has been an increase in the supply of various drugs, and every day, we have heard there are more and more newer and newer, which we have never heard of today. We are geographically located in the area of the so-called so-called area. Balkan routes, and there's a forceful opportunity for drug dealers and drug manufacturers to travel this way. Almost no moon, I'd say for weeks now, that our police, in cooperation with others, are carrying out drug-absorbed actions, that they don't burn almost, that there aren't any weeks, large amounts, and the moon of the same drug. However, there is still a growing and greater phenomenon among young people precisely those who consume drugs, I will not talk about easy drugs or heavy drugs, I will talk about drugs because I think it is a monster for everyone. However, the drug programme and problem should not be dealt with only by state-level institutions, but I really think that more and more local self-government units must be involved in this, because of the social, geographical, cultural differences precisely at local level, colleagues and colleagues can be done the most. In addition to the basic goal of reducing drug consumption and supply, education is an important place. The strategy states that there is a need to ensure new forms of education for the planning and evaluation of drug programmes, to work on an interdisciplinary and postgraduate study in the area of addiction, and this is related to the education of teachers and well-educated teachers already at the university of teaching, that he is already familiar with this plight and occurrence there. Ensure permanent targeted education, but there is no mention of the development of school prevention programs in this area. We heard today that they started in 1997, and then I was alone as a principal and headmaster after I was involved in these preventive programs, and I can tell you that we are already really, we can argue, those people who are in the education and education system are far away from it. But apparently, the generations we face today at school, in society, generations of young people we have already told are far greater than 10 or 15 years ago, the availability of information, the availability of the opportunity to access drugs. They are therefore more, above all, informed of everything and normally that such generations require further and greater education for us who should deal with schools by preventing and implementing these programmes. I'm going back to school and kindergarten, school is about to start prevention, and she needs to be provided with funding. This report of yours shows that the funds were secured in 2011, that a large part of the programme was implemented. But why, colleagues and colleagues, we have to do it at the beginning of the school year. This year when we discussed the implementation of the budget, the state budget in 6 months was said that on these items, for extracurricular activities, for prevention, for the work of civil society associations that are equally involved in prevention, we did not spend a single kuna. The reason is that there was a tender for individual programmes, we must not wait 7, 8 and 9 months, it seems at the beginning of the year, or at the end of the year for the next budget. Because if we don't use it, we're gonna need those funds in the state budget. Col. Hajdukovic presented several other colleagues today, I will say terrible data after that, an analysis by the World Health Organization in thirty countries in Europe and North America, including Croatia through its international research and what data it has come up with. It came to us that smoking and alcohol, you saw, in a very high place in these thirty countries, that drug use, I'm not going to repeat now because my colleague really said everything well, that 27.8% of our students where they take girls, which was worrying, consumed inhalants once or several times. If 12.2 had consumed alcohol and tablets at least once in their lives, we heard very often and daily. These are really disturbing data. Yesterday we discussed here on the Croatian Olympic Committee Report. Most colleagues and colleagues stressed the importance of sports. I'd say the importance of sports from kindergarten to higher education. Why? This particular sport can be a major prevention in all forms of addiction. However, in addition to sports and extracurricular activities in schools, they play a very important role. That's why I think we need to let kids deal with really extracurricular activities, sports clubs, young technicians' clubs, and others' clubs, because we're really going to get them off the street and the challenges of really being able to reach out for any kind of opiate every day. Youths also need to be assured that they can talk about this problem, that they say and become self-aware of what they do daily. Sometimes it is in schools, you know, and hard, because of the way and method of teaching in general because of the implementation of such preventive programs. That's why I'm going back and I'm going to conclude: education is the most important thing, except for what it means to prevent, prevent, catch a drug dealer, punish a drug dealer, but education is not just about children, but education for those who practice education! My colleagues and colleagues, despite the introduction of medical education, civil education, let's call whatever we want, should be brought back to school. Because we still call our schools educational institutions. In the 1980s, we deleted, I'm going to repeat, the concept of education in school and focus on education by neglecting education, and from education -- today, colleagues and colleagues have agreed, and that's where we all agree -- that's where we have to have a consensus on this topic, here's the final sentence, we have to have a consensus on this topic, get the family back to school in the first place in the development of each child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18966	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Sunny Head. Here you go, pals!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Roksandić, we have already said countless times today that education is important, but education is also important. According to a very good survey by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, so the report on people treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs in the past year, the data tells us that the largest number of people treated has completed high school, the unfinished school has 9.3 and only the primary school completed 12.3%. Not even the most basic schooling has 80 people, 73 of whom are more than 19, and they will probably never finish primary school. A graduate school or college has 6% of those people. However, there is another information, I will go back to what I said on behalf of the Club, and it is not just children because the addictive population, both in Europe and in Croatia, is getting older and we can say that the youngest treated person was only 13 years old and the oldest was 69 years old. So we're talking about those who need to be educated and who need to be raised so they never get in this group. However, worrying is the fact that women, for example, are just beginning to treat drug addictions at the age of 30, men are doing something more, increasing even the age limit to just over 32 years, and I think we need to find a formula and model what to do with these people. So, we have examples, I'm going to say one example in Međimurje County, a person who was very successful, had a good career, a person who started drugging at 35 years of age! So what about people like that when environmental influence can no longer be when it's a formed person, when family influence can no longer be, so it's a much more complex problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18968	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. My colleague, Roxandić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glavak, you're a very good principle. This is a really complex problem. We've all focused on young people, I believe we just point out that at the lowest level of the child's age, or man's age, we have to cut it. However, in this strategy I have not seen exactly some particular emphasis and model of solving the problem of society at this level of adults, let's call adults. This is where the resociation is mentioned. Among the data, I also found information about the employment of the people who cured themselves. That's the same thing he's saying. In addition to my encouraging employment, I would say first of all to sensitize the public, and employers, that the most important people who have passed, who have been cured or have passed all these stages of healing receive back to work, give them a place in society. In 2010, it seems to me that I have found information that 11 people are all employed, and in 2011. 21. Progress is, but I think that just one particular chapter of this strategy should take up this problem. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18970	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Martina Banic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a basic strategic document in the area of drugs, a proposal for a national strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2017. The problem of drug abuse is complex and it is necessary to take this problem seriously and provide adequate protection for the lives and health of children, young people, families, individuals and adults. It is often repeated as a flossula that drugs are a monster of the modern age and that young people are, in that sense, one of the more risky groups. Such a superficial approach should change and do everything possible to solve the problem of drug abuse. The problem of addiction should be addressed from all levels from local, regional, to national level, with a view to stopping the growing emergence of drug addiction, drug abuse, and drug crime. Drugs is an evil that destroys an individual and an entire family, and our task is to protect young lives, as well as society as a whole. We've heard that in the Republic of Croatia since '90. By the end of 2010, the number of addicts is on the rise, so by the end of 2010 persons treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs by the Croatian Institute of Public Health total registered 30,000,290 people treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs. It is important to note that over a thousand to a thousand more people have been treated in the treatment communities, and annually about a thousand 400 people of all criminal status for the crime of drug abuse, stays in prisons and penitentiaries. These are the figures that we unfortunately need to add to the destroyed lives of addicts, which increases that number several times. When we add everything to the crisis that we are facing, which is also a cause for drug use, because we know that drugs are not only used out of curiosity, but often individuals think that this way they will escape from reality, while forgetting that problems will not bypass us. We come up with data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health in 2001, according to which 7 thousand 665 people in Croatia are treated from various forms of drug addiction, and last year, as many as 153 people last year. The problem needs to be answered by doing everything to prevent drug abuse. I would also like to briefly remind you of a few of the facts we have heard about the international day of fighting drug abuse, and then we heard that there was an ever-increasing presence of so-called. designer drugs. There was an increase in consumption of so-called illegal market. Design or kitchen drugs that can be found in everyday-use items, such as Air freshener. These drugs are cheap and available on the market and addicts are increasingly reaching out to them. I mention this in order to highlight the importance of education with the aim of curbing drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. One of the tools of prevention of addiction is parental education, which often do not recognize that their child is in trouble, and often it happens that parents do not have the strength to admit to themselves that their child has been killed. An educated parent may also be able to identify in time what problem his child has found and react in the right way. In order to fight addiction in prevention, we need to do much more because we have room to improve the system. Experience has shown that sufficient progress has not yet been made in the area of prevention of addiction, and prevention programmes are being implemented occasionally, which is obviously not enough in the fight against drug abuse. It is necessary for prevention to begin from the birth of a child, to be implemented through educational institutions, from kindergarten, primary school, high school, all the way to college. I would also like to point out this occasion to the significant role of educational institutions. The education system has taken part in the responsibility for the organisation and implementation of the programme of prevention of addiction in educational institutions, and high schools aimed at reducing the interest of children and young people to taste drugs and other means of addiction. Let us not forget family centers, which also play a significant role. It is clear from everything that only through the participation of the entire system will a satisfactory result be achieved. In Croatia, colleagues and colleagues are treated with 7 thousand 665 people, whose HZZO pharmacotherapy pays 42 million kuna. The question we have to ask ourselves is how we let ourselves get to such a large number of addicts and how we're going to minimize that number. I firmly believe that decriminalizing drug use will not solve the problem of drug abuse. On the contrary, it will yet deepen what we must not allow. And finally I use the opportunity to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that a strategy that we will support to be implemented and implemented in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18972	Thank you, too. Next for the debate, Lidija Bagaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18973	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament, the distinguished guests. Here is the debate that has been extended to us, but I think it is extremely important that we have a consensus on this topic and that it is discussed especially because of these young people who are now visiting us that they take this importance seriously. The study of materials from the report in the strategy shows that the previous national strategy from 2006 to 2012 raised the problem of drug addiction to a significant state level and that the suppression was represented through several systems, and the new strategy further extends and integrates the entire system. The strategy shall take into account strategies in previous periods and reports on their application as well as strategies and guidelines of the EU, the UN, the World Health Organisation and other international documents. The report, however, shows that there is no systematic review of preventive activities in the Republic of Croatia and very little information on effective programmes is very little, so it is commendable that the office has developed a database for the prevention of addiction programme during 2011. It can be said that the prevention and treatment system in Croatia is still at a satisfactory level. It is commendable to note that the Primorian-Gorski County, from which I personally come, is among those who single out significant means of countering drug abuse and that in these times of crisis, it has succeeded in increasing those isolations. As a result, there is a reduction in registered treated subjects by 2.5% and a reduction in newly-income drug addicts by about 15%. Although the total number of users is not alarming, there is a visible increase in the organisation of crime, which has been discussed by colleagues before me, especially the international connection so-called. The Balkan route that passes our country, especially several counties that are by the sea. By observing the analysis of trends, it can be seen that the number of persons reported is growing while the number of convicted and accused persons is falling, which is essentially contradictory. Accordingly, the focus of prevention should be on the greater involvement of the repressive apparatus, which involves the judiciary, the State's Attorney's Office, the Police and Customs, and all in order to break international chains, and thus reduce the supply of drugs on the market. Because drugs are available to young people everywhere. In a cafe, in a disk, on the street, in a school, in a park and it is particularly worrying and growing offers on the Internet. Youth dependence on the Internet would also be much to talk about. One of the starting points in the fight against drugs should certainly be to reduce the amount of drugs on the market, resulting in a percentage of young people coming into contact with it. As is known, frequent drug consumption often results in impaired efficacy of people in everyday life, family problems and the social environment, conflict with the law and side effects of health. However, the fact is that in the largest number of young people, consumption is limited to a short period or appropriate consumption. It often involves experimenting in youth, identifying with the environment and simply wanting to fit in as well as possible. So, like my colleagues before me, I want to highlight education, education for prevention. It is commendable that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports also launched an education programme in primary and secondary schools, and I would like to stress in particular that more education is needed for parents to be able to react as first in contact with young people in time before it is too late. Among the successful treatment methods of addiction and the one conducted in treatment communities in which more complete therapy is also given in addition to treatment for physical addiction. You can tell in a vivid way that it's both body and spirit. Infrequently, through various forms of therapy that includes also performing physical affairs in agriculture, but also spiritual restoration tries to bring former addicts on the right track. These forms of therapy take into account that the problem cannot be eliminated only by removing the consequences but must also affect the cause of the problem, which is often a sense of loss, confusion, and despair of addicts who do not see meaning in life. In any case, it should work on their empowerment and popularisation because the resociation and inclusion of former labour market addicts is very important for their later functioning in life and the community. In addition to the drug problem, I want to take this opportunity and talk about one more by myself and one more important and bigger, more worrying problem of addiction, which is gambling. The growing burden of society becomes dreams of easy earning and a quick solution to the problem, and there are more and more pronounced phenomena of dependence on gambling, and in particular the rise in the dependence of young people on gambling. And that addiction is like heroin and alcohol, and many find escape from reality and harsh reality, which is currently unfortunately in our country. I would also like to point to the problem of overly simple availability of automatic clubs that attract young people to literally each step without any order or rule. And here's what I'm suggesting is that this is another problem that should be considered more seriously in the sense of preventing all forms of addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18974	Thank you, too. Next debate, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18975	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Well drug abuse is a complex medical-social phenomenon with a number of health, economic and social consequences for individuals, families and communities, and drug users' mortality is several times higher than in the same age population. And this data, along with the data we've heard statistics that are truly devastating, speaks enough that it really needs to act on a constant, continuous basis and on that trail, of course, it worked. It's indisputable even when the registries register was set up in the '80s that had a thousand in the beginnings and 300 I think it was recorded, and now here's the number came to 31,000 and 600, unfortunately. The treatment system is therefore also based on high quality principles. There are specialized departments for detoxification, hospital departments, and non-patient activities where they play a significant role in public health services, treatment communities, etc. in that part. Of course, this framework of legislation is also certain, since we have so far 2 strategies here which are now, in front of us 3. That's for sure in that part, this one contributed. And in that part of the year we look at what we have done in this area, and this report therefore testifies to that in the contribution, which has therefore been made in accordance with and its structure has been built by guidelines, in accordance with the guidelines of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs with which we have, as we have heard good cooperation. And there is really nothing special to add, therefore, in the chapters of quality, with the fact that in the Republic of Croatia during 2011 no significant change was made in the implementation of the drug abuse policy. Of course, there have been speeches and there has been talk about the general population and specific groups where we are particularly sensitive to these, that the life of recovery is moving to a lower age towards a younger age, and that is necessary to warn and to warn, and to this place, here in particular in these circumstances when our young friends are in this high house. And certainly the attention of all of us has been occupied by prevention as such, and I don't think there's really anything to add that prevention is never enough and that we should continue to strive and insist and that surely we would have reduced these devastating consequences as well. Each one of us has, directs his attention to an area that is closer to him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll be as a long-term health care worker, I'll certainly look back at chapter 6. Health correlations and consequences. Namely, the results of drug-related prevalence follow-up and this year show a low rate of HIV infection and a constant decline in hepatitis b prevalence and a re-decreasation of hepatitis C prevalence rates. As in previous years, co-administered hepatitis c addicts are still high, but in 2011 after the growth of the previous year, the decline was re-recorded. As for additional diseases associated with drug addiction such as mental illness and diagnosis of disorders in 2011 most of them are affected by alcohol-related disorders in both opiate and non-opiate addicts. Surely there has been a great contribution here from both the Croatian Red Cross and the civil society associations that have carried out various activities, of course also centres for free and anonymous testing of HIV and, in any case, this trend should continue. That's, that's where they gave... As the colleague noted by the regional regional regional administration a certain contribution, it stands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also testify that in various counties statistics are slightly different, but there are counties that have therefore contributed in this material sense, so to ensure working conditions. And my county, from which I come, the Koprivnica-križevska in that part, certainly made one more significant contribution. So under these circumstances all these indicators of chapters and everything comes to us, here's this third-largest strategy to be made, of course, an evaluation that has made an extremely respectable institution of the institute, so Trimbot from the Netherlands. And they did a certain analysis, he was a representative of the government because he said he wanted to point out certain holes that exist in this system and there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them. One of these is communication at all levels, and that part knows for certain that this communication should be better at all levels and will certainly be of considerable attention in this strategy. Of course, I won't say anything new if I say, therefore, about the vision and the mission, as was said. And a vision of reduction, so demand, availability, etc. Well, there is no dispute, so those who are struggling with these problems and in a repressive sense, are making superhuman efforts but are inequitable in the game. It clearly stands, because the means with which those who oppose and fight, therefore representative methods, are twenty-three times smaller than those who are unfortunately accomplished in this second part. So that's for sure. I have nothing to add on those principles, principles that are spoken, constitutional rights, principles of equality, but also the principle of comprehensiveness. I would especially like to say about these young people the principle of comprehensiveness to which it must be given, if health is a complete mental and physical well-being, completely mental, physical and social well-being, then that says enough for itself. Yes, and these social opportunities, these young people should, therefore, do the quality of life, because we must clearly say that many young people are frustrated, and any unresolved frustration is causing new frustration. And that's definitely this one, leading to problems with these moments of availability and everything big. And that's why in that part, we have to be extremely responsible, responsible in a way that we clearly determine ourselves, that we have an attitude, and not to say now, easy drugs, like this, like that. We have a clear attitude, so no, clear attitude about drugs. Drugs, it's drugs, we need to know that the mechanism, the mechanism of production, the motives of taking and the mechanism of production, both in drugs and in tobacco, and alcohol are similar, similar. And in that part, we have to be responsible and clear, so not drugs. I don't have any thought in this regard, trying to create on these foundations, so a positive environment for these young people, with the engagement of all, and in this way we will surely, this great problem is solved naturally in this strategy in the way we would like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18976	Thank you, too. Next up for debate Boro Grubisic. He's gone. He's losing his right. It's a turtle, Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to try to focus my debate a little bit on some positive results that are in this report because if I don't, it means I'm going to repeat myself with 22 or 21 colleagues who spoke before me. And now that you've given me your word, I've been thinking if I should give up the debate, if there's anything new I can say or if I should take the floor anyway. But I'll try to explain why I decided to talk anyway. The 2011 report said there were 7665 people, 1151 of whom were first treated, 15%. The total number of drug addicts treated in 2011 increased by 1.5% compared to 2010. The proportion of new people in the system of treatment of addicts as well as previous years continued to decrease. Because of the abuse of opiate during 2011 there were 6198 people, of whom 343 were the first to be treated, which so far is the smallest proportion of newly arrived opiate addicts. So then he says, the results of monitoring the prevalence of drug-related infectious diseases and this year show a low rate of HIV infection and a constant decline in hepatitis B prevalence and a re-decreasation of hepatitis C prevalence rates. When it comes to the availability of drugs according to available indicators in Croatia, the trend of reduced availability of heroin in the domestic drug market continued in 2011. In 2011, 6342 people were seized of all types of drugs, which continued the trend in the growth of the total number of drug seizures. During 2011, with the support of local administration units and regional (regional) self-government, the objectives of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse planned for 2011. In 2011, more financing was spent in the county area and fewer registered drug addicts were recorded. In line with the county action plans to combat drug abuse in the area of counties in 2011, a number of and various programmes have been implemented to combat drug abuse. A total of 99 drug prevention programmes were implemented, 66 of which focused on universal prevention programmes, etc., etc. And why is that? For the reason that we had a National Strategy to control and abuse drugs in the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2012 and because there was an Action Plan to combat drug abuse from 2009 to 2012. And we also have to in this debate and confess to all those who do this work. From the MUP, from the ministries, from local and regional administrations, from people who work in communes, from associations that deal with the Red Cross and not to list everyone else. And if it wasn't for all these strategies and the struggle of society, of course they wouldn't have been such results and that the state of drugs and all opiates would have been much worse in the Republic of Croatia than it is today. And that is why it is important that today we discuss and bring a strategy to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2012 to 2017. And another thing that's very important, that we don't keep blaming each other because a lot of things start from home, from family, and it can't be an excuse that someone works too hard or runs for money not to take care of their own child. The primary family. After that, of course, the education system and everything else. And of course what has been in the debate several times mentioned, which many colleagues have said, means that those people who pass the treatment to find a modus, a way to include them in society to find a job, that they can start their own family and continue to live normally. And what my colleague Coleman said is that we try to bring this vertical between everyone who's dealing with this problem and then the results will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18978	Thank you, too. And the final debate, Mladen Marelić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kolar said he was going to give up. I was also thinking of withdrawing the discussion, and I totally have to change the discussion now because after 23 discussions, a man has nothing to discuss anymore. But I'll still be accepting to one local thing, that is, problems in our county. In the smaller environments, we have a big problem that smaller places do not have any sports facilities, especially school sports halls that are not there. So some of the places that had these sports halls were shut down so that new classrooms could be built in them. Unfortunately, the authorities say that the local community co-finances schools, local but also smaller cities and municipalities, it should be done by the county. Unfortunately, it's not so generous for us that our county, maybe we're not in the same wavelengths, and it hasn't invested that much in our areas. So this year, the town of Korčula finished the pool with 9 million kuna, and we know that the original budget of the city was around 18 to 20 million. Also, there will be 1.5 million more maintenance costs, all for children who can use these sports pools during the winter period, because yet with us sport is what can be the most influential and useful for drug prevention. We have one phenomenon, they say that drug dealers sell, sell drugs, we have large quantities in the south, in the islands of the south, the quantities of marijuana, bring us the sea under the houses. So we often have 10 kilos each to find that and later this young man who goes to the beach, throws it out the sea, they pick it up, sometimes they share it to someone, some sales, they're not dealers, and tomorrow they're being punished as real criminals, like real dealers. I think it's huge, because our neighbouring country down south, east, or when the columns of speedboats smuggle with it, they throw into the sea when there's a big storm, and that's a big problem. So that's a lot of large amounts. I think that more attention should be given to the fact that police are now visiting the islands of Dubrovnik, Mljet, Lastova and Korčula in winter. That's, like, a hundred kilos, 'cause these speedboats are driving by the wagons of that drug, the marijuana that's being split tomorrow, and it's spreading around the island. We can easily prevent only one activity and the Port Captains and the police, coast guard, I think it can be visited by these terrains, because they throw it into the sea after that storm, when they're followed by ships that are in control, that they can escape or that they can't sink into the sea. It means we should have a bigger prevention and activity after that. Here, I wouldn't really do it anymore because you've said it a lot, you'd think this part of us could get into that debate to deal with it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18980	Thank you, too. We have one replica, colleague Ana Devčić Comparić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18981	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the thing, my colleague Marelić, you encouraged me when you said that there are no sports facilities in the smaller environments and that our children have nowhere to go, so to play sports. I was just reading, which is why you encouraged me to give up financing the Spaladium arena that will cost the state and the city in 30 years a billion and 80 million kuna. If we add to that money and the money that Arena costs in Zagreb, then I ask you and myself, how many halls and sports facilities could our young people have for this money?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18982	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18983	... But I'd only give one more, plus that our county pays veterans who go to America for some, they're having water polo, some, they're playing veterans, and for young people nothing. [[Specially enabled.]] I mean, that's the sad thing, that's the money we spend on veterans, and for young people, nothing. I come from a place where I can be proud that we have a lot of natalities, a lot of young people, we talk to them a lot, and I don't have one of those halls, or the school hall that was, they turned it into classrooms, because there's no room. There's a lot of young people, and we've been working with them a lot, and I can tell you that maybe individuals are smoking these, which swims down there, but harder drugs, I don't think so, but we work with them a lot. And I think that, as parents, as politicians and businessmen, it depends a lot on all this together. There you go, so many co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18984	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the defendants for the hearing. There's no deputy minister to give closure. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u18985	Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2011. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2011 report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse is accepted". Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes with 121 votes in favour and 2 votes have been abstentioned to the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19180	We move to: - The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2011 HNB submitted this report on the basis of Article 62. The CNB Act. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget. Whether or not the proposalor's representative, I welcome Vice Governor Relja Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19181	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, in a few minutes, I will try to sum up what was important in 2011 in the field of monetary policy, which is a comprehensive annual report. However, I would also put this monetary policy in 2011 for discussion, which occasionally stirs about the very character of monetary policy in a slightly wider context. It can be divided into 2 important different periods with the beginning of the crisis at the end of 2008 as a clear section. In the years before the crisis, Croatia had a stable and solid growth of gross domestic product, however, it was long-term unsustainable, regardless of the crisis that broke out in the financial world, it was long-term unsustainable, because it was based on domestic consumption again based on foreign borrowing. During this period, the Central Bank warned of the dangers of such movements and sought to slow them down with a series of restrictive measures, wanted to destimulate and curb foreign borrowing of banks and the growth of domestic loans, and to ease the appreciation pressures on domestic currency. So monetary policy was clearly countercyclical. Often suffering from its restrictive measures at that time and harsh criticism, however, it gradually formed very high financial reserves both in banks and in the Central Bank, which proved to be a key stabilising factor in the face of our financial system with radically changed operating conditions after the crisis broke out. When the crisis broke out in autumn 2008, the situation changed dramatically in a very short time. There has been a break in the time of a very generous and cheap inflow of foreign capital. Financial markets have generally closed down specifically towards highly-indebted countries with high deficits such as Croatia, which were significantly hampered by new borrowing during the night under acceptable conditions. At that time, the CNB has changed the character of monetary policy and, within a very short period of time, practically from relatively restrictiveness has turned into an open expansion, eliminating all measures to detimise foreign borrowing and credit expansion and liberating huge and kuna and foreign resources. This allowed state financing in those first moments, prevented credit contractions that would otherwise follow the crisis and also the banking system remained stable and the external liquidity of the country was preserved. Since then, to this day, a virtually rough calculation shows that changes in monetary policy instruments have freed the Central Bank total of more than 46 billion kuna, which in kunas, which in foreign exchanges, and that additionally by buying foreign exchanges on the market, has additionally created 12 billion kunas. In 2011, the Central Bank continued its very high liquidity policy by seeking to have a stimulating impact on growth and financing conditions for the faster recovery of the domestic economy. Thus, at the end of the first quarter of last year, the minimum required foreign exchange claims were reduced from 20% to 17% which freed banks from 860m euros, equivalent to around 6 billion kuna. And even during the year, the net purchase of foreign exchanges additionally created 4 billion kunas. Thanks to this, monetary policy did not therefore affect the slowdown of credit growth but this slowdown, which indeed took place, was the decline in demand for private sector loans,... business uncertainty and lack of investment. In fact, monetary policy was acting as I said incentivising the liquidity supply, so despite the negative factors mentioned on the side of the demand for bank credit growth in 2011, given the circumstances, it was relatively high. In fact, although it was a total of 5.5% and 3.8%, respectively, if the impact of the credit growth rate is excluded and eliminated, it is 10.6% and 9.1%, respectively, without bankruptcy, while loans to the population have stagnated. The relatively fast growth of 15.5% was credited to the state, and when I speak in absolute amounts, that is, the new growth of credit to the state was close to 8 billion, to businesses of about 12 billion and about 1 billion people. The identical pattern of movement was realised a year earlier in 2010 and the country's plasmas grew relatively quickly by about 15%, placed in the private sector about 7%, while the population's population was stagnated. The net domestic assets increased by 9.9% in the banking system last year, and on the side of the pasiva, the largest monetary aggregate, etc. total liquid assets or M4 shorted what we technically call this aggregate has increased by only 3.5%. In other words, neither domestic savings nor new foreign exchange sources were and would be not sufficient for the achieved growth of the net domestic activity and the difference was de facto financed by the decline of net foreign exchange assets on the overall side of active positions, which in principle and reflected the desired expansion of monetary policy and the reflection of those amended instruments, thus showing that the strongest effect on increased liquidity and the increase of the net domestic assets had an impact on that decision to reduce the minimum foreign liquidity rate from 20% to 17%. In the M4 structure, therefore, the most visible on the passive side is the strong reduction of foreign currency quasi deposits of companies, quasi-deposits of companies, therefore armed and this reduction was about 24% while such deposits were stagnated by the population. Total quasi money increased by 2.4% and cash mass by 7.5%. The liquidity of the financial system also clearly shows the interest rates that prevailed on overnight loans, on the interbank money market and which ranged mainly throughout the year below or around 1% at the annual level. Bank interest rates also continued slowly from 2010, especially during the first half of the year due to further reduction, and regulatory costs, and expansion monetary policies. However, the tightening of the debt crisis abroad, especially in Greece, but also in other peripheral countries, and the increased uncertainty and external and internal end of 2011 strongly increased the fronts of Croatian bonds, and the risk premium, and stopped and somewhat even changed the trend of reducing active but passive interest rates. These developments were affected by interest rates, in addition to that mentioned deterioration in financial conditions in foreign markets, as well as the deterioration of funding conditions from banks, mothers, due to their own problems in their home countries. Therefore, this movement was also affected by the continued growth of poor loans in the activity of Croatian banks. As a consequence of this prolonged crisis in the real sector, the share of bad credits was expected to rise from 11.2% at the end of 2010 to 12.4% at the end of last year, while the share of bad loans to the given companies increased to as much as 20%, with the population reaching 8.6%. As for real movements, data on GDP components show that one of the main causes of recession is a strong and constant contraction of investment. The possibilities of refinancing and new borrowing abroad were limited, and are still limited, the cost of borrowing has increased significantly and Croatia has not formally lost its investment ratings, the conditions for us ruling in international markets are very unfavorable. In addition, it is likely that a significant part of the new domestic borrowing was taken and used by companies to invest abroad, rather than for financial and investment investments in the country. When we look at, therefore, the components of the gross domestic product on this consumer side, seeing that investment in capital decreased by 11.3% in 2010 and in 2011 by an additional 7.2%. Despite poor labour market developments, unemployment is growing, despite the stagnation of credit to the population, personal consumption seems to have temporarily stabilised in 2011, of course at significantly lower levels than those of the pre-crisis. After falling 8.5% in 2009, the drop rate was 0.9% in 2010, and the previous one was practically negligible growth of 0.2%, respectively. So in fact, the only positive growth impulse in the last year came from the export of goods and services. In 2010, it was 6%, much less 2.2% in 2011, and this slowdown is also due to recession in the EU and our main foreign trade partners. All in all, after GDP contractions of as much as 6% in 2009 and 1.2% in 2010, this halting of personal consumption and mild export growth was not enough to compensate for the decline in investment, so GDP stopped falling in 2011, but unfortunately there was no turning point yet. However, when looking at developments at the three-month level, it is seen that, after a limited recovery in the second and third quarters before the end of the year, there was a new decline in GDP which continued this year because a constant drop in investment was then joined before the end of the year by poor results in the area of international exchange, trade in goods due to foreign demand. And this also shows how sensitive Croatia is to the situation in the EU. In view of GDP on the other hand, the production side expected and the real gross added value stagnated, economic activity increased in most service activities especially during 2 and 3 months with good tourism, while in industry, construction continued to decrease. After the crisis, there was a strong and rapid contraction of the current balance of payments deficits. Also in 2011 compared to 2010, the current account deficit continued to decrease slightly and amounted to 0.4 billion euros, around 1% of GDP. And such movements then correspond to developments in foreign borrowing, with a slight drop in foreign debt which has remained around for some time after years of rapid growth, at a level of about 100% or slightly above 100% of GDP. It also corresponds to the balance of payments again with the movement of international reserves available to the CNB, which increased by an additional 5% last year and at the end of the year amounted to €11.2 billion, which is approximately equivalent to 9-month-old imports in 2011 and can indeed be estimated to be an adequate level of our international reserves. As for inflation that was not the problem in that year, I will only briefly say that it was measured by the consumer price index on average by 2.3% year-on-year. As regards these other most important functions of the CNB as regards bank supervisory in 2011, all planned tasks were accomplished, direct supervision was carried out in 22 credit institutions, thus covering the control of institutions that constitute about two-thirds of the total system assets, and one bank was also withdrawn from work approval. When we talk about the banking system, it should be said that despite the increase in the share of bad credits in bank assets and the associated increased cost of booking the profitability of banks on average stabilised approximately at 2010 level and that the return to the average activity and return to the average capital of banks remained at 1.2% and around 7% respectively on these sizes. It is also significant that the adequateness of capital on average remained very high, at around 19%, which is significantly above the legal minimum as you know of 12%, which is alone when viewed compared to a large number of other countries, and this represents a truly significant reserve in the event of a loss in banks. All our stress tests and these recents show that the banking system is still resistant to any additional shocks. It is good that the banking system is of course profitable and well capitalised, and therefore safe because finally these banks are often perceived as foreign banks, but regardless of the ownership structure they are Croatian banks, operating in Croatia, have their headquarters in Croatia, and in them is our money, and thanks to the most important part I would say thanks to the previously described countercyclical policy of the CNB, Croatian taxpayers did not have to save banks according to it or pay their recovery unlike what has happened in the past few years where these accounts and resolutions were really high, and what can happen to some other countries that have been pointed out to us often as their own example. On the other hand, it is in no way good that there is such a huge aversion to the risk of banks and is not only a problem in the lack of demand for loans but it is also a problem in the proper offer of credit despite the real high liquidity and the generous creation of money by the Central Bank. This also shows the behaviour of banks in these previous models A and B, especially in this new model of business incentives with development potentials. So in the programs that basically come down to sharing the risk between banks and HBOR there are more likely moments and these unmonetary moments. First, the offer and demand for loans to the private sector are low not only because of the tightness of the private sector from the investment that is present but also because companies are often unable to provide adequate collateral for their new liabilities and are not sufficiently capitalised, they lack their own capital for this are partly and alone guilty. I am, of course, talking about the average, because they were not capable or even willing to use the extremely favourable conditions that previously existed in the capital market before the crisis. Secondly, there should be no undetected change in the structure of credit growth since the crisis occurred in 2011. As loans to the population have been stagnating or reducing themselves to very moderate growth for three years, the state's lending has increased relatively. Crediting the state to banks is, of course, the job of the lowest risk, a very lucrative business with low cost of processing credit requirements. So this whole job is also very good for their profitability. Well, in some ways, it probably reduces the appetites for entering other more risky plasmas. Therefore, it is partly and therefore, but of course dominant in order to establish a sustainable pathway of public debt, it is necessary to consolidate the state budget as soon as possible and reduce financing needs and thereby reduce the country's dependence on financial markets in general and as much as possible, to free part of the growth of savings for private investment. Even so, the CNB has managed to open up space for the country's credit growth through a very modern policy, and it has not occurred at the same time. Exclusion effect i.e. endangering credit growth to other sectors. However, others, as I said, were present, non-monetary problems and causes of the loan slowdown. This shows that the expansion and encouraging monetary policy itself in these years of crisis is adequate and the CNB is implementing it, although surprisingly many do not see it, but it is obviously not enough. The abundance of money received does not guarantee that this money will go where it should go and for that as far as it may sound, but it does require deep and far-reaching structural reforms. All that will increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and exports themselves, through restructuring of public enterprises, reduction of the public sector, through improving the business climate, in all respects, thus reducing legal risks, problems related to the judiciary, the labour market and others. So, all that will lead to the reduction of barriers to investment, but I would say all that and more new measures that will lead to the stimulation of such, such private investments. Nor can monetary policy be expected to start an economy and growth on its own without these structural changes, nor can I hear it, could be accused of, and found guilty, of the current situation or of a slow exit from this situation. For business in Croatia, and especially for private, foreign, direct investment in the export sector monetary policy, exchange rate policy is not a problem. No serious investor will argue that when you talk to him. Problems lie elsewhere and solve them, truth takes time, and if you want great and political and social effort, but these reforms will ultimately not be able to be avoided, they simply cannot be replaced by the mere manipulation of nominal sizes such as the nominal course. They can neither delay or wait for better times, for the better times will not come, even though they will not be spent. If it were different, it would be really much simpler and none of such a solution would certainly run away. What the central bank has to do on its part about this division of business and responsibility must do, by law does and manages to do, what the Croatian economy needs, it is financial stability, it is relatively low inflation, a relatively stable course and at these times of crisis if a modern monetary policy. While the stronger growth of the economy in the moving period can obviously be achieved only by coming, it can come from those investors who bring with them both capital and knowledge, and who can apply technologies, and innovation because growth clearly cannot be based either on the current model or on cheap work and on cheap technologically outdated exports. Here, I would conclude by de facto quoting a sentence from the law: "That the central bank will continue to maintain the stability of the financial system and, in accordance with the law, maintain low inflation as its main task without bringing it into question, while supporting the country's economic policy and growth policy.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19182	Thank you too, Deputy, actually, Vice Governor. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19183	Dear Mr. Martich, you've told two facts, I'll react, I'll speak the rest in my debate on behalf of you. You said that although we call our banks, 95% of them are foreign banks, they are still Croatian banks. I would disagree because it doesn't even matter if they work here, but it's important that they make profits and that they finance their home countries' industries. Another fact that I can hardly agree with, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia did not have to resuscitate banks in this economic crisis, so how many times would you like Croatian citizens to resuscitate banks. Croatian citizens rescheduled banks in the 1990s, with big money, and banks were rescheduled with 20 times more money than they were sold. I think there's been enough resolutions and I don't need the whole banking thing anymore... all the risk of being transferred to the back of Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19184	Thank you. We don't have a reply to the replica. Okay, thank you. We're moving on to the committee's reporters. Does anyone want on behalf of the board? No, I don't. I'd be begging for applications. Here we go. First on behalf of the HNS club Liberal Democrats Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Relja, Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the HNS Club supports the Croatian National Bank's report of course. And not because it is of course, but because of the fact that the CNB was successful both last year and in the past. What is crucial, which is to be one of the few European countries that has a stable financial system and whose monetary policy is conservative but which has proved necessary and correct at the moment when that fiscal part, when the government has not essentially reacted to its measures in the way that was necessary and has managed to maintain the stability of the financial system and provide space for today, together with the coalition government where there is good co-operation, we can look forward to all the problems and positive that we can open room for the development of the economy with all the laws, instruments and measures that the Croatian Government today has and implements. The CNB therefore led a stable policy on the nominal rate towards the euro in 2011 as well as on the basis of the report and the main prerequisite for low inflation in Croatia for financial stability of the system and price stability. 2011 is a year of low inflow of foreign capital and continued deleveraging of the domestic sector towards foreign lenders. Strong still conservative CNB policy has firmly defended kuna against devaluation, which had a need and foreign intervention of a total of 541m euros, which is an increase in mandatory reserves from 13% to 14%. Although the CNB supported the high liquidity of the monetary system as one of the conditions for a faster recovery of the economy, it continued with the lack of investment, poor consumption, further growth of the share of bad loans, with the high need of the state to finance what we heard and by reducing the share of the borrowing of companies, i.e. taking loans from companies in particular from the private sector. The high liquidity of the financial system is a feature for 2011 unlike what I said to the good part of the EU countries. Although net capital inflows amounted to around 1.7 billion euros, with a high performance of equity investments, the majority concerned, however, the capital breakthrough transactions of several foreign-owned banks. Investment in new projects was lower than in 2010 and private sector investment was missing. The potential debt of the State in the form of State guarantees was at the end of 2011. 59.2 billion, i.e. 17.5% of gross products, and the internal debt increased by 15 billion kuna. Unfavourable movements in public finances continued for the third year in a row. The net debt of the consolidated state was 14.6 billion or 4.3% of GDP and a total fiscal deficit of 18.1 billion or 5.3% of GDP. Although, therefore, foreign gross debt in 2011 decreased, it was essentially the only consequence or large part of the conversion of the ownership stakes of foreign owners into the company's core capital, i.e. banks in Croatia. The state funds needed to finance the deficit in the budget fully secured the new debt and thus continued the debt of the state itself and GDP growth in billions of kunas over 156. Investment activities were reduced by 7.2% in 2011, 11.3% and 11.3% in 2009. As it was done in 2011, the percentages of CNBs showed that the net balances of banks to the state were increased we heard about 15 billion kuna or 51%, and the total claims from the central state bank by 7.5%. We are talking about economic placement, co-operation between the state and fiscal, or monetary policy. What happened through HBOR with models A and A+ placed in 2011 was only 1.1 billion kuna. The amount of business liquidity did not affect the growth of the economy, while the share of partially compensateable and completely non-refundable loans increased to 12.4%. The bank's caution has led to the direction of loans towards state units and public companies, but regardless of which they did not benefit from this development and we have a decline in investment in capital investments. In 2011, what is interesting and characteristic was restored and reprogrammed somewhere above 5.7 billion plasmas, which at 12 months only shows that the indifference that has escalated this year was such that banks had to reprogram loans, but in order to clear their balance sheet but no effect was special. The liquidity of the domestic banking system was extremely favourable in 2011 after the reduced obligation was made from 14% to 13% to support the government's efforts to boost economic growth in co-operation with the HBOR, and the 1.1 billion loans show that this was not a sufficiently successful initiative to realise growth in the economy. The nominal interest rates of banks on short-term loans without a currency clause were the most fluctuating segment of interest rates, ranging from 7 to 7,48% by the end of 2011. It is now clear what monetary and fiscal policy cooperation means. We see for example in 2012 when we compare the effects of cooperation, when we know that loans for liquidity assets are secured interest from 3% to 4% per model of economic growth and recovery. And that at this point more than 5 billion kuna is granted with 4 HBOR auctions, all in the co-operation of commercial banks, HBOR, Government and Croatian National Banks. Without such cooperation, there is no possibility and the economy in Croatia will be difficult to develop, we will have difficulty talking about new jobs and this indicator, and this time with which it started in any case and praise for the CNB. The market and decline in citizens' interest in loans last year was 7.53% compared to 2010. What's also interesting is that although it doesn't fall under HNB surveillance, it indicates that it will kill in the downturn of activity, i.e. the situation on the investment fund market, for example. that their assets have been reduced by 1.7 billion, or 12.8%, and mandatory funds by 38.7 or assets, for example. The Croatian defenders of the Homeland War Fund and members of their families fell by 27.9% or 559.6 million kuna. These are all the conditions in which last year was a matter of killing the conditions under which the CNB acted to stabilise the entire financial market, which is normal and crucial, so that we can discuss today even today the development of the capital market, because of course it's all about it. It is often said and we discuss, here we are in replicas, about domestic banks, about Croatian, not Croatian etc. banks, therefore, are all about Croatian banks, and we can only say whether the owners, i.e. certain queens, are founders from abroad, or most often from the EU. So, in private, we have 13 banks with which, which are from Croatian owners, and 13 are foreign owners of banks. The share of the bank's assets in the majority ownership of domestic shareholders is 4.9% as well as in 2009, and the bank's assets in the majority ownership of the state are 4.5% and participation in the total banking sector. The sectoral structure shows that credit growth was mostly referred to as said, but should be stressed once again, on state-owned companies and state-owned state-owned units, so the decline was significant in the sector at all, and the currency structure showed that commercial loans were exclusively nominated or indexed in euro. It is indicative that the coverage of the loan b i c was 35% in companies, which only proves that the banks for which there was no solution, that the measures were lacking fiscal and other... the start-up policy, i.e. did not give rise to the possibility of triggering the impulses of development and the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Banks' orientation towards the biggest debtors has increased and this is most often in the renewal and restructuring of existing loans. The structure of net income indicates that 72% of income is realised from interest and 27.9% from commissions, fees and other secondary incomes. All groups of banks suggest an increase in net credit, 5.3%, small 4.8%, an average 3.2%, which only further indicates the stability of the banking system. The profit of banks before tax was 4.7 billion, up 9.8% compared to 2009. Of course, the growth of profits was based on the growth of gross income. Profitability of the average capital of the bank is slightly increasing and the average property has increased by 1.2%, interest costs have been reduced by 6.6. And it was a good thing it was growing reserves, and the liquidity ratio above what was prescribed was 0.84. Although the CNB has made a lot of criticism about the work of small banks, its functioning indicators suggest, particularly for 2011, that they have earned a profit of 79 million kuna. And now, of course, we're opening on behalf of the HNS Club and another comment, of course, about the Credo Bank and the way, not how radio surveillance was done only, but also how it was communicated to the public, and about the identified irregularities not only last year, but also how they were monitored in previous years. And we came to a situation that was not good by the CNB, which is that the way in which we communicate with the public was partially endangering the stability of the work of small banks, and that is clearly already said. But one more time we need to repeat, it's not appropriate, it's not allowed, it's not professional, and we believe, of course, that in future in any similar situation, that the mode of communication of expression will work by the CNB in a way that is appropriate and that is professional and non-creation of certain bad and unfounded killing messages particularly whether it was small, medium or large banks. Finally, on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to point out once again that we support the work of the CNB so far, not only for this year 2011, but also for the way it approaches monetary policy management and, of course, with the desire to continue to be one of the most stable states in terms of financial system and absolute co-operation with the government, the co-operation of fiscal and monetary policy is the key to economic development everywhere and, of course, to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19186	Thank you very much. Next is the club, the Croatian Labour Club and the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19187	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Governor Martic, colleagues and colleagues. I was wondering at first, I have two questions, at first I ask myself, is the CNB even important? Because we put this debate in the afternoon like that in one quiet atmosphere or on the other, is the Parliament even important? Why the Parliament? Because with his presence in this temple of neoliberal economic thought, we were not honored to come to Governor Vujčić himself. There are these two questions that I'm not even looking for answers to, but I'm asking myself, I'm going to find an answer. Please let those who think to answer not respond, but I can. What marked the last but 11 years before that year 2011? First of all, when it comes to CNB, it's non-critical. Especially incriminating towards monetary policy, and especially towards the governor of the CNB, former CNB Governor Mr. Zeljko Rohatinski, who, thanks to his unequivocal ability to communicate with the media, built an image of untouchable, infallible and from an independent financial expert until the last year before the elections, when he discovered his and his political ambitions. The former governor realized that it was easier for the people to scare general knowledge politicians, such as my smallness, financial non-professionals than foreign banks. However, nobody but anyone in business circles and not even Ivica Mudrinic, the owner of that famous patent that was discovered in the early 1990s by the murderous, funny Tanja Torbarina, did not flirt with politics as much as Željko Rohatinski coquetated. And no one has put as much effort into the idea of their own independence about politics as Mr. Rohatinski. Mr. Rohatinski actually wanted to like the majority who do not have much contact with the business of the CNB. It should have been the impression that the CNB is doing a good job. Mr Rohatinski tried to be bigger than both the CNB and the Parliament and the prime minister, whoever he was prime minister and Croatia himself. First, he provided the epithet of the communicator of the year, and then the world’s best governor, the media wrote. Both can be said either way was real. He was a communicator not for years but decades. And he was the best governor in the world, probably. But, of course, the best governor in the world at the assessment of international financial centres of power. They declared him the best because he served the interests of large capital and the interests of banks without furryness and visible remorse. We've had and unfortunately we have the worst or one of the worst economies and industry in the world. We had, and today we have one of the most constant currencies in the world, but a currency that is still just a calculation tool. The Croatian National Bank has been scrupulously concerned about the stability of the course, less successful in price stability. The course is a means of achieving better, higher economic goals in every country, not the goal itself. The course is a means and nothing more, far more. The CNB took care of the bank's stability after they were recovered with 20 times more money than they were sold to foreigners. The CNB was concerned, and it continues to worry about the cementation of the foreign exchange clause, which has expired and what little sovereignty remains of Croatia. The CNB was concerned about the cementation of the foreign exchange clause, regardless of which it was exclusively a means of protecting banks, not what is the task of both the CNB and the government and the Parliament of the protection of all citizens. The CNB exists, it's obvious, not because of the citizens, but because of the banks, because of the financial centres of power. The CNB does not exist in order to strengthen the economy, strengthen exports, employ the unemployed, but rather to preserve the interest of the import lobby, in order to preserve the interests of foreign trade chains. What measures did the CNB take to curb undesirable economic phenomena? I don't know any. Why was it allowed for banks in Croatia with special satisfaction without great peripendence to approve loans for low interest purchases, and for the start of the production cycle, entrepreneurs need to go through Tantal's troubles to grant them credit with of course significantly more interest. Why didn't the CNB detimise banks in fostering fairy-tale credits to citizens who had once ironed cards in a frenzy? However, Mr. Rohatinski successfully built a cult of personalities. He was untouchable because politics feared him. It did not harm Mr. Rohatinski, see the devil, even having travelled abroad to the expense of others, nor having spent tens of millions of kuna on the easy lives of employees, nor having, above all, fallen to the knees of the Bank of Rijeka because of the failure of the CNB, or the drowning of other banks. But it should be admitted that the governor is an expert. He knew well that politicians didn't know. He knew how monetary and fiscal policy functioned, and with this knowledge he spent the entire time directing the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. Of course in the wrong direction. But how is it possible that monetary policy is brilliant, the best in the world and at the same time collapses the economy in the same country? How is it possible that in the CNB, the main and only goals of price stability and the unrealisticly stable exchange rate of kuna while, for example, US central banking puts employment first? Because without employment, the state is chromium. And it's not really a country in the fullest sense of that word. Isn't monetary policy one of the tasks of encouraging and enabling economic growth and achieving greater employment? How is it that everything that fell in Croatia could have fallen apart from, of course, unemployment, as Governor Rohatinski said, whose 12 shares are being discussed today? How is it that credits to citizens have exceeded their loans to the economy? We know that the CNB creates an offer of money and that the supply of money can also affect the launch of production, thus also the employment, and then of course the prices. However, the role of the CNB is to influence bank loans, to the level of interest rates, without doubt and to the standard of citizens, or to the development of entrepreneurship. Could the CNB have had an impact on the disproportionate growth of the assets of banks and GDP, or could it have affected this unnatural imbalance to be as small as possible? Because we know that the assets of the banking system have been increased almost five times, and the GDP has only been increased twice in the 2 terms of Mr Rohatinski. What does the CNB have to do with citizens? Stepmom. It allowed the foreign exchange clause and, for example, tightened interest rates up to 14%. The CNB allowed banks to charge their commissioners more than 200 fees, including a fee for inhaling banking air. The CNB has allowed the interest rate of banks towards citizens and the economy. When we propose, and we suggest today that the foreign exchange clause be abolished gradually, planically, analytically, in the long term, and not overnight. And the CNB, but politics, whether it's HDZ or Kukurik, with a high dose of ignoring, also rejects the idea of such a possibility. Both the CNB and the ruling only care about the fate of the banks, but no, repeats, and for the fate of the citizens. Because they say when banks are well, it's good for citizens, which is a lie, as it is a lie to bring down the banking and state system if the currency clause was gradually lifted or abolished. However, the truth should be told, Mr Rohatinski recommended last May in Opatija that the government consider the moves that would lead to the gradual abolition of the foreign exchange clause, but only after a moment from Europe, from the very monetary institutions. This time the government has failed to comply with the governor's recommendations, neither the former nor the present one. And yesterday, we Labourists spoke in this home why it is necessary to abolish the foreign exchange clause or at least share its negative effect between banks, clients, and possibly between the state. But no, all the risk should be put on the backs of the citizens. That is why it is best to be a banker right in Croatia, nowhere like in Croatia is business with less risk. Which proves that it's not about the genius of bankers, in Croatian banks, but it's about the frantic masculinity of the people and everything under the watchful eye of the CNB and the hair. On the other hand, the CNB has been watching calmly all along how banks make huge money from Croatia. Although not in his domain, the CNB did not speak publicly, the CNB did not publicly discuss interest taxation, taxation of the banking sector, the effects of such moves that must be initiated in the government, and here in the Parliament, and ultimately, the Parliament has to decide. New Governor Boris Vujcic, who experts say belongs to the same school does not run away, said on a TV show, from taxation of interest. In other words, most European countries tax interest in a similar way as taxing income with several rates. The central bank, i.e. the CNB, must have more objectives than today, other than price stability, must also aim at stable economic growth. We in Croatia would be satisfied with any growth, only that we no longer fall for anything that can fall. And one more thing about the foreign exchange clause that is the most controversial and we heard on the board when we discussed last week that the great threat and stability of banks and the entire system. If we cancel the foreign exchange clause on loans, that doesn't mean we have to cancel the deposit clause. Whoever places foreign exchanges in the bank has to get the foreign exchanges back on demand. The suspension of the foreign exchange clause on loans, but also on deposits, would not produce any or minor negative effects as the assets and liabilities of the banking system are in this respect in balance. In addition, Croatia needs a quality Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in order to start abolishing the foreign exchange clause and others in order to spread the risk equally to debtors and creditors. A sovereign, modern, sovereign monetary policy cannot be conducted if the share of domestic currency in total money is only 20%. For example, in Poland in 1990, the share of domestic currency was only 30%, today in Poland is a different situation, the share of domestic currency is 94%. We know what the situation in the Polish economy is and what the situation in the Republic of Croatia is, but it's not a sign enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19188	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one replica, Honorable representative Igor Coleman and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19189	Thank you, Mr. President. Just one detail, in fact, was never cheap for cars for Croatian citizens either. They may have been cheap compared to loans to the economy, for example. or generally, loans on consumption may have been cheaper at some point than loans on investments, but those loans were never cheap either. Croatian citizens have never actually had cheap loans by comparing, for example, the situation in Western Europe. We've also been paying cars dearly for them, and we're still paying them dearly for apartments, etc. So in some absolute categories, these loans were actually expensive for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19190	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19191	My dear colleague, I agree fully with you. Yeah, and car loans are expensive compared to those loans they pay when an Austrian, German, French buys a car on loan. But I was also saying what you said about loans to cars in relation to loans in the economy were disproportionate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19192	Thank you very much. SDP club and respected representative Igor Radjenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19193	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. As you assume the views of the SDP club that I intend to make will be quite different from that of my predecessor, but I believe that we will eventually clear our minds. Namely, this is the fifth session of this House, so the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and for the second time we are considering the Annual Report of the CNB. So, we did it in January 2010 and it's all the same if we look roughly like in January, the kind of déjà vu, only the exhibitor changed, so the proposer in person, was Mr. Vujčić's person, now Mr. Martic, but the position was the same, so the deputy governor or vice governor. The macroeconomic indicators are also similar to those in 2010, and according to previous discussions and club positions, they are similar or the same as we did in January. He spoke in detail at the introduction of Mr Vice Governor on macroeconomic indicators, what we can sum up in one sentence that 2011 was therefore the year of stagnation of the Croatian economy after two years of strong decline, especially in 2009. GDP has stabilised, but despite this relative success, further unfavourable developments in public finances continue. It is the final year of HDZ rule, an election year which, like all previous years, is characterized by the further awakening of public spending with a chronic lack of structural reforms. Therefore, these developments in public finances resulted in a total fiscal deficit of 18 billion kuna or 5.3% of GDP. Despite all this and these unfavourable movements, the persistent long-term anti-cyclical policy of the CNB resulted in stable conditions on the financial market and allowed relatively favourable borrowing and coverage of the current deficit in 2011. The central bank, therefore, as the entire number of years before it focused its activities on maintaining the price stability of Article 3, went to counterpart Vuksic, there but did not listen to me carefully, so the roof law, the CNB law, strictly and prescribed. So the primary goal is to maintain price stability. A stable nominal exchange rate according to the euro has a major impact on the achievement of this objective and thus enables the maintenance of the liquidity of the banking system. This is a devastating policy for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, some will say, and my predecessor will say, but the achievement and maintenance of financial stability throughout the years is undeniable to the success of the CNB. Very often with us, this financial stability is taken as healthy for granted even though the CNB is realized in not very ideal conditions and not very ideal times when both the banking system and the economically strong countries objectively view much stronger countries than Croatia as shooting under crisis. Try your colleagues and colleagues to imagine that reverse scenario, Icelandic, Spanish, some other or some other third. We know that Croatia is not perfect in many fields, a random state as the prime minister said, and sometimes it was misunderstood, in many areas. It could've been on the banking field. The potential costs of stabilising and resuscitating the banking sector measured by billions of kunas or euros, and in this scenario, at a much higher rate than 7.5 per 1 would have a devastating effect on the Croatian economy and society as a whole. I believe we can all agree on that. With the successful achievement of this basic objective, I personally and my colleagues from the SDP also see the understanding of CNB leaders about the need for greater harmonisation of monetary and fiscal policy. Both the new Governor Vujčić and Vice Governor of Relja, but others, when they step forward on behalf of the CNB, stress always the desire to revive the Croatian economy and speed up economic growth. It is unquestionable, and I believe that we will agree on that, too, that the burden of the crisis should be distributed more evenly. It is not acceptable for many that one sector, in this case the bank, should continue to act as though nothing is changing even though their business partners are becoming increasingly difficult. However, the long and medium term conditions of banks also automatically deteriorate. And that, believe your colleagues and colleagues, is also aware of the bankers. They also take on their own certain measures, such as the reprogramming of loans to facilitate payment burdens and thus to reduce their reservation and write-off costs. The question is, of course, is that enough, what else can be done and what is the role of the Central Bank? The experience of the past two years clearly shows that the increased liquidity of banks, which was allowed to lower the minimum reserve rate, is not in itself sufficient. In order to increase credit activity to the real sector to a greater extent. If it is not followed by the bank's readiness to increase the risk, but also by more quality programs for the entrepreneurs for whom loans are sought, there are no significant results. Everyone in that triangle or the quad, if we include the Government, must submit their roles in quality, but must also take their responsibility. Encourageing economic growth is a fundamental desire, I would say, for everyone in this assembly, for all the clubs in this home. The measures and decisions of the CNB have achieved high capitalisation of the banking sector, objectively high levels of liquidity both kuna and foreign currency are not an obstacle, but an advantage on the way, let's dare say the sacred goal, so the recovery of our economy. All of this, colleagues and colleagues, I have to keep in mind in today's debate. I expect that today, just as it has been in previous discussions, as it has been during the discussions of previous years, as has been the case in constructive discussions on the parent board, i.e. the Finance Committee. To raise certain issues about foreign reserve management, profits achieved and their distribution, about the level of interest rates as a consequence of largely foreign ownership. The questions, we'll probably hear some criticism about the move, we've heard about the move and the reaction to the liquidation of Credo Bank. Of course, we can, and we heard those criticisms both yesterday and today about the unsustainability of the currency clause, etc. etc. They're all legitimate questions, they all deserve convincing and logical answers. The Governor Vujčić has given them in our court so far, Vice Governor Martic has done so today, he does so normally, and therefore the leadership of the CNB for his policy has the trust of the great majority in this assembly. My colleagues and colleagues, members and members, members and members of the SDP Club will support these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19194	Thank you, too. We have a report of a respected representative, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19195	My dear colleague, you mentioned an Icelandic case. I think the example of Iceland is that it's not a tragedy, that bankruptcy of banks doesn't mean the tragedy of the people. In Iceland today, positive processes take place in Iceland today. Not the biggest tragedies of bank bankruptcy but it's much more devastating when for decades or years, let's not go too far, it's been bankrupting hundreds of thousands of citizens for years. Many countries that have had great difficulties with banks, we have not had, today they stand far better than Croatia, which is the same in the collapsing of what we talked about earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19196	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the respected representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vuksic, neither CNB nor Croatian banks in largely foreign ownership are an island and they operate in the Republic of Croatia, operate for Croatian entrepreneurs, operate for Croatian citizens. In the event of a bank collapse, what I was saying at the outset, not only do banks fail, their owners will withdraw capital properly. The biggest problem and the biggest problem is the very Croatian citizens that I believe we all stand for together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19198	Thank you, Your Honor. Club of HSU and respected representative Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19199	Dear President, Mr. Martic, colleagues and colleagues. In 2011, the CNB successfully implemented a policy on a stable exchange rate of kuna, which greatly helped to preserve financial stability. Given the high debt of Croatian citizens in loans, with the euro currency clause, it is very important that the central bank continues with this policy to preserve exchange rate stability. We are daily aware of the agony experienced in these difficult economic times by citizens who are exposed to loans to the Swiss franc and the CNB should continue to pro-actively stabilise the exchange rate according to the euro, so that the same situation does not occur to a large majority of the euro-related population. The CNB should also be commended for being actively involved and tried to contribute to the recovery of the domestic economy by maintaining high financial liquidity on the market. Although extremely favourable liquidity unfortunately did not have a more significant impact on the increase in credit ratings, mainly due to unfavourable conditions in the economy, especially on the labour market, high debt prices and uncertainty about future developments. The CNB certainly mitigated the negative effects on the Croatian economy by its actions. In October 2011, the CNB raised its reserve rate from 13% to 14% due to depreciation pressures on the kuna course. We support the continuation of this trend and hope that the CNB will continue to raise reserve and minimum foreign currency rates in the future. The overall increase in credit risk exposure to the banking sector is worrying, especially its growth for 3 years in a row. Given the negative trends, both in the world and domestic economy, we are unfortunately looking forward to a continuation of this trend in the deterioration of credit quality. The CNB should continue to raise the reserve rate to preserve the high degree of stability of the banking system. We believe that the CNB has done an extremely good job over the past few years and has managed to maintain the stability of the course and stability of the banking system, which, given the extremely bad economic and financial developments in the world and the domestic economy, has been a very difficult task. The CNB should be more committed to developing the protection of consumers of financial services and financial literacy, as the World Bank noted in its diagnostic review of consumer protection and financial literacy of February 2010 the level of consumer protection and financial literacy is at a very low level and has a large space for improvement. Financial markets are rapidly developing and expanding, and the services offered by financial institutions are becoming more complex and more complicated. As an accompanying phenomenon, there is an imbalance in the strength of information and resources between consumers and financial service providers that brings consumers into an unfavourable position. Financial institutions, unlike consumers, know their products very well. Information available to consumers can be excessive or complicated, so the average consumer cannot understand or evaluate it. Detailed information that a contract for a consumer of financial services must contain is prescribed by law and financial institutions are adhered to, but such contracts are long and termnology is unclear. The CNB should focus on two things. First, determining the standard display of the most important details of financial services with standard terminology so that all the most important conditions related to a particular financial product are presented in simple language. Secondly, the determination of the standard display of the most important risks associated with a particular financial product, with a detailed description of how each of these risks can affect the consumer of that financial product. In this way, consumers would be informed in advance of all the consequences and there would be no situation that we are currently witnessing. Although it is currently very populist to attack the financial industry and demand a restriction on their business, it is still wrong. The development and progress of the financial industry has brought many benefits to all stakeholders in the system, and rather than limiting and limiting the business of financial institutions should be directed towards consumer protection and improving financial literacy. The Croatian Retired Party Club will definitely accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19200	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The HDZ advocates' club and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19201	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Governor. So here's when we have the debate on the report on the work of the CNB, in principle, the assembly is sort of divided into two parts. Those who support the work of the CNB and its results and those who believe that not only in this particular year we are talking about but in general over the entire 20 years should have worked differently. This kind of dichotomy and division is repeated year by year, a little bit alternating between different political parties but I think more or less there is always present. In a certain way, this division in the assembly is probably also a division that exists in the general public. An implicit issue that was always present could have been different, could monetary policies and instruments of monetary policy have made not only the current crisis but also the general path of economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia more efficient, could make it better for the state, economic operators and citizens? I think it's a question that political debate in principle cannot give a final answer. But I also think that the question, the question that needs to be offered, is how can citizens and all those who are interested in it bring a metric court. And that's actually what I want to talk about. Not so much about arguments, but about the role of the CNB, about its institutional role in the spread of arguments, economic arguments, quality economic arguments that we use and debate economic policy issues. I mean, it's clear, and at least I think all questions are legitimate. Well, it's legitimate and ask the question could the CNB have acted differently? This is particularly legitimate because people of course see that the central banks abroad, the large central banks ran an active interest rate policy, they came to 0 today and so on. quantitative discounts, money printing and all together are difficult to deal with from the crisis. We have this crisis going on and it's getting even harder. It is therefore legitimate to ask, but it is also legitimate to answer that question. And I think that in answering these questions, in explaining these answers to the CNB precisely because there is a new leadership today, you should take one more active role. It should take one more active role in arguing about the economic problems facing Croatia today, because the CNB has one great comparative advantage, has knowledge, has economic knowledge with which few the Croatian institution can raise, and I don't think any can be raised. This knowledge has been created for many years just under the cloak and under the protection of what is called HNB independence. And I think, therefore, that at this point in no way endangering the independence of the CNB, I think the time has come for it as an institution to take a more active role in the economic debate on solving our economic problems, because it knows it, because it can, and because in that knowledge that is really in the CNB, I think I have a sense and can only make sense if it's put into a function of solving real and real problems. However, very often the CNB has in a certain way kept silent in our economic debates and said certain economic problems are not in its mandate, that economists are working in the CNB, politicians are making decisions. In this way, I think this institutional force of the CNB has remained threatened, and the quality of economic solutions in Croatia is much less than is objectively possible. In what I'm saying, I don't think of the governor as the only communicator and the only person who communicates the views of the CNB. I mean administratively to the institution and to that capacity that the institution has. Because to a good extent, some of the economic problems we are talking about today stem from institutional weaknesses, from the lack of building up of our institutions, and their functioning depends to a large extent on the quality of the head man. The CNB has this institutional power to contribute to the quality of the economic debate, to contribute to the quality of the arguments, and then some of these questions that are being asked about whether a different economic policy could have been conducted over the past 20 years, then some of the easy solutions that some of them are mentioned here today will prove to be just one public deception and deception of those who do not understand each other, and they are not obliged to understand the details of this problem. Because if the CNB doesn't interpret what Euroisation is and what does it really mean to run monetary policy, what is the link between the euro deposits and the currency clause, and who is going to do it? Of course, there will be stronger suggestions and ideas so that all the problems of the Croatian economy can be solved by abolishing the currency clause. It will, of course, strengthen the arguments, while it has nothing to do with the right of Croatian citizens to save in the currency they choose because of the right of course everyone swears unreservedly. If the National Bank does not interpret and explain what these causes are, what are the causes and what is the meaning of a stable banking system, and who will twist the facts, it will become a dominant mantra. The twisting of facts and the claim that the biggest problem ever encountered by the Croatian privatisation of the banking system will become an ever present explanation and a cloaki move for very difficult and serious problems. Because if there's anything, in Croatia it testifies that privatisation made sense, then it's a banking system. Because the stability of the banking system in this difficult crisis isn't in itself, as much as we take it as a given. It came from some processes in banking risk management, bank management and work from the CNB policy that resulted in the fact that Croatia currently, although the crisis lasts for 5 years, has no problem with the stability of the banking system. Calling the opposite is very harmful, calling the opposite, saying that it's something that's in itself, that it's something that we ourselves have a right to because it's very dangerous. Because he doesn't say who pays for bad banks. In fact, I remind you that in 2010, only one bank was rehabilitated or recapitalised, take whatever you want, it's a state-owned bank. Unless the Croatian bank interprets how they intertwine and connect or undo the effects of monetary and fiscal policy, who will. So, among other things, the CNB today has an opportunity to think that it is institutionally positioned in a different way, to institutionally position itself as an institution of economic knowledge, knowledge of monetary but overall economic policy and to the benefit of the entire Croatian economy and to seek a total exit from the crisis. Do not in any way understand that I am in favour of reducing the independence of the CNB, on the contrary, I am in favour of this unquestionable independence for the greater presence of arguments in economic debates in Croatia and the National Bank is an institution that can do this because it has sufficient knowledge. And knowledge is a very often deficiting thing with us. I won't talk much about the very details of this report, but I would say that the HDZ Club expects the new CNB leadership to take over the positive features of CNB's work in the previous period, but also to open up some issues that have been neglected so far. I'm thinking about the cost of regulation, which is why the cost of regulation is imposed on banks and which is therefore also contained in interest rates. I'm talking about questions about the height of passive interest rates. Passive interest rates in Croatia are clearly more than in the European environment and those relating to the euro. Interest rates on European deposits therefore attract foreigners to save in Croatia. It is not in itself, of course, bad, but it shows that there is a space for arbitration, and then, of course, it reflects on the level of active interest rates. I wouldn't dare offer ideas or solutions to this problem in this place, it's been going on for a long time and it would be too much simplification. However, I think the CNB should address the problem in order to reduce the active interest rates. I'm also talking about the clear rules of supervisory. The CNB must ensure that all banks in Croatia feel they are measured by the same arch. Today, however, it is one feeling that exists, which is that, according to one bank, smaller banks are subject to tighter and more rigid rules than those applied to large banks. And finally, let's look in the medium term. The next six years, the supervisory board will likely be united at Union level. Croatia will likely be on the threshold of entering the European Central Banks system, i.e. the euro area. And what will the CNB do? Will it be just an exposure of the European Central Bank or still has some other space to function as the CNB? I see this space precisely in the institutional contribution and knowledge that the CNB can give to the conduct of economic policy. I therefore firmly believe that there is room for the CNB to contribute to the exit from crisis and economic growth without in any way jeopardising its independence. I would therefore ask you, Mr. Deputy Governor, that the CNB in a certain way cease to hide behind the arguments we have been listening to for years. It's not in our mandate, it's not the things the CNB decides on, it's not the things the CNB can influence. That's probably true, but that also doesn't mean that the CNB's economic problems should be ignored and abstained from formulating the economic position on them because that attitude I think can contribute positively to exactly what we need right now, which is the quality of economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19202	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19203	Dear colleagues, Dalic, is absolutely certain that it is not the controversial knowledge of the people who manage and work at the CNB. It is questionable, at least for me, that these people, the direction of the CNB, the politics or the policies of the CNB. That might be questionable. For you maybe not, for me yes. It is not even questionable that the CNB solves problems, it solves them without a doubt, but the question is whose problems is solved? It's the biggest doubt. The CNB should also be an independent institution for sure, but cannot be independent of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19204	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Dalic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19205	Thank you very much. In addition to what you said, you have now said in your debate that the CNB does not exist because of citizens. On the contrary, the CNB and the entire legislative framework regulated by financial operations in Croatia exist because of citizens to ensure the safety of their deposits in Croatian banks. Therefore, interpreting only partly certain parts of the financial system, pointing to what you have said and, as an example of instructions, to keep the currency clause secret to citizens that the adoption of measures that would endanger the stability of the banking system does not harm imaginary owners in foreign countries, but goes to the harm of those who keep their money in Croatian banks and who have entrusted their money with full trust in the management, and thus the management of the CNB oversees it. And that is why it is ultimately in the service of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19206	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of club representatives in the Croatian Parliament who have reported a debate on this subject. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate, individually. And distinguished representative Nadica Jelash is the first in that debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19207	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Governor of the CNB, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will limit only to Chapter 3 of this report by the CNB, so to the business of the banks. During my economic studies, I learned one rule, I'm going to say even one legality, so there are no good banks without a good economy, as there is no good economy without good banks. This rule emphasizes the logical link between the real sector and the banking sector, a link that implies banks share the fate of the economy. In Croatia, however, the rule does not apply or the economy is no longer what it was. Namely, Croatia's economy, and then Croatia's citizens, and excellently says counterpart Dalic, the CNB exists for Croatian citizens, so unfortunately it is getting worse and the banks seem to have nothing to do with it. Banks are not a service to the Croatian economy, nor are they interested in it, because they have one perfect safe client, state. Although most of the funds for their placements are alluded to from the savings of citizens and from the deposits of Croatian entrepreneurs. That banks do not share the fate of the Croatian economy or Croatian citizens I will try to document some data that can be read from the text of this report. In 2009, at the peak of the crisis when the economy dropped 6%, the net profit of banks was 3.5 billion kuna. In 2010, the economy fell further 1.2%, the net profit of banks increased to 4.3 billion kuna, while in 2011, which is for the economy of the years of stagnation, so we have zero growth, the net profit of banks is growing further 10% and is 4.7 billion kuna. The same trend continues in this year 2012, so at the 2011-2012 transition, more precisely in the 4th quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012, again consecutively, unfortunately we have negative economic growth rates, which means that the economy has fallen back into recession as soon as we have 2 consecutive periods of negative growth. The gross profit of the economy in the first 3 months of 2012 was even lower by 73% compared to the comparative period 2011. And what happened to the banks at the same time? At the same time, banks recorded profits before tax of 1.3 billion kuna for the first three months. If we look at the cumulatively the last 4 years from the start of the crisis in 2008 to the end of 2011, the Croatian economy recorded a decline of almost 10%. Industrial production dropped 27%, about 140 thousand jobs were lost, Croatian citizens' living standards dropped by at least 20%, and what did I ask the banks again? At the same time, banks achieved over 15 billion kunas of net profits. It is interesting that the crisis has damaged the banking sector, it should be said, in all countries of south-east Europe except Croatia. In these countries, banks record massive losses and increase profits in Croatia. For example, in Slovenia, banks have been doing negative business for the second year in a row. In 2011, losses amounted to 436m euros. In Serbia, the losses of the banking sector amount to 18m euros, similar in Hungary, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia. In Croatia, as I said earlier, banks have achieved 4.7 billion kuna, or we will now turn it into euro to compare with what I said in other countries, so this is 623 million euros net. Of course, most of this profit refers to 2 banks, the Business Bank and the Zagreb Bank. But what's very interesting about these two biggest banks is the fact that at the same time their queens in Italy, so Intesa San Paolo and Unicredito did business with loss and that's why, along with 24 Italian banks, the American rating house Moodys reduced their credit rating. The direct consequence of the lower rating is the higher price of capital. So these banks will have to pay more money. In Croatia, losses in the banking sector are a very minor phenomenon. In 2011, they amounted to just over a hundred million kunas, and they were related to 8 small banks. Furthermore, it is interesting that in 2011 all banks improved their score compared to 2010, the loss-making banks reduced the losses, and the two banks that ended negatively in 2011 moved into the positive financial area. What I do not want is to conclude from my debate that I am unhappy with the excellent results of the financial sector in Croatia. This is generally good and is primarily the result of high capitalisation of banks, but what is in the face, in the context of the fact, is therefore not acceptable that at the same time the economy is loosing in losses and in great indifference. In one word, there is no crisis for banks in Croatia, Croatia is a real eldorado. Although the economy is falling, although citizens and states have less money and are increasingly in charge, indicators of the profitability of the banking industry in Croatia are growing. What is the growth formula for banks in Croatia? The growth of the banking sector's profits is based on the growth of interest income and on savings on the cost of booking for losses. In four crisis years, so from 2008 to 2011, banks charged 84 billion kuna through active interest, while their passive interest amounted to 42 billion at the same time. This means that the difference between active and passive interest or net interest income was $42 billion. To gain insight into what kind of money it is, which is the order of size, is the amount that is equal to the entire year's pension in Croatia and the costs of all health employees. Furthermore, over 17 billion kunas of bank fees and various fees were charged in those four years. At the same time, their costs from that title amounted to only 5 billion kuna, which means that the difference, i.e. the net revenue from commissions and fees, amounted to 12 billion kuna. Incomes must occur even when plasmas fall and even when the share of bad so-called. non-refundable loans, and we know that the share is increased and it is now about 12.4%, and this is possible because the amount of commissions and fees of the bank form completely free. Therefore, without any supervision or obligation to explain the principles and criteria according to which they determine their height. The banks charge, when I say this number then I always remember those non-fiscal charges, so the banks charge 242 different fees. With that, for example. the first debt warning does not have the same price as the second and third, although the cost of sending the notice is exactly the same, unchanged. In contrast, sending a reminder is not charged in Sweden, because this would be imagined inappropriately. The current government has, through changes to the Consumer Protection Act, abolished the cost of non-payment notices, which includes, of course, bank warnings, but I think that the CNB as an independent regulator should significantly strengthen supervision of banks, their costs and, above all, withdraw some moves in the segment of the protection of their clients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19208	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19209	When I spoke on behalf of the club, I said it was best for bankers to do business in Croatia. You just confirmed it, you said one sentence that the banks actually do their jobs without control. You talked about this, about 4.7 billion kuna profits in 2011 and according to what you said in 2012 will be bank profits of 5.2 billion, so there will be more if we judge for the first quarter of this year while, at the same time, in the home countries of that bank, they deal with losses. I repeat, in Croatia are the genius bankers? I'm sure they're not genius bankers because these bankers would move to Italy, France, Great Britain, and they'd make enormous profits there. This is exactly what the CNB and the Croatian state do not do their job, the CNB and the Croatian state do not work on the welfare of Croatian citizens no matter how much. I said that this temple of neoliberal capitalism became that Croatian citizens no longer matter to anyone because what Mrs. Dalic said earlier, from her perspective it was quite positive, not from mine. There are two different concepts. We represent a concept where citizens are wondering about something and we are building a concept of a state that is at the service of citizens and also of banks, and so is the CNB, and it is certainly not the CNB, because it serves large capital and banks, and this claim is supported by the facts that you respected colleagues have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19210	Thank you, too. The next replica, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And colleague Jelash said and she said well, so said the HDZ Club's representative that good bank results are a good fact. Mr. Vuksic is quite persistent, and I must say lonely on the way to the good result of banks financial stability that is not a good fact for the economy. They are good primarily for their clients, so for the Croatian economy and for Croatian citizens who work in the economy but also as individual banks. I said so in my debate, and my colleague Jelash reiterated, so we all have to take responsibility and make our contribution to getting out of the crisis and to strengthening the Croatian economy. The Croatian government also recognized this responsibility through the Financial Stability Act and the pre-departure settlement that was relatively recently here and practically through these legal provisions called for both primary and Croatian bankers, so it put them in a position to assume their part of responsibility for fate or for the future of all of us. As you colleagues Jelash and in that part, I agree with you, and I expect the measures of the CNB which will also position the role of banks in Croatia stronger and better in the direction of social responsibility but not at the harm and expense of someone but at the benefit of all of us, so how popular it is to say win-win situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19212	Thank you, too. And the answer to the line, the esteemed representative Nadica Jelesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19213	I agree with you and the banks, i.e. the banking industry should, in my own debate and pointed out, be far more involved in sharing the fate of the Croatian economy and what I am personally dissatisfied with is the fact that too little is involved in projects through the CNB. Therefore, the inclusion of the banking industry in plasma, i.e. through HBOR, was unsatisfactory, much higher, was expected and some 8 billion kunas were spoken of. Business banks do not appear even in those situations where the credit risk is shared between the business bank and the HBOR at a 50-50 ratio. Even then, banks do not show too much will and interest in entering credit arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19214	Thank you very much. We continue the debate and call on the respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19215	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Jelash, I agree with the good part of your debate. What I don't agree with is the fact that you call banks for profit, but I don't think the problem is the fact that Croatian banks have a profit, though I think it's a good thing, but maybe the problem is that the whole other part of the economy that the banks, Croatian banks and, of course, the flow in some way don't make that profit. So, I think that's actually a problem and the fact is actually one that we should stop looking for excuses in someone else, we need to determine the fact, and that is that whenever we call Croatian interest banks or for that to get which is one part of the result and interest, of course. First of all, for the amount of these interest, the responsibility is borne by the state, that is, the Croatian government, because it has an ultimate influence on the fact that both Croatian banks will be in debt and then placed in the largest part of Croatia's economy with money. But we're going back to the CNB, so respecting the fact that we're really not a big state or a big economy, so the CNB doesn't have all the tools that the Fed most often mentions or other central banks. And so the power of the CNB's influence should, however, I think we should pay attention to several key thesis. And that is, I think, given the crisis that has been going on for 5 years, the CNB has to find a way to take on even more, let's say responsibility or participation in finding a solution to economic recovery, or generally general economic growth and future economic growth, especially at the threshold of EU entry. Of course, I don't think anyone seriously involves printing money, it won't solve our problems, but it should also be concluded that given the trend in the Croatian economy for the past 10 years and the growth that has actually been reported to the government with no money, without new money there will be no serious economic recovery or growth in the near future. Also, I think the CNB must find a way to motivate banks, Croatian banks, regardless of ownership, to finance the Croatian economy. Croatian citizens also depend on this Croatian economy and I do not like the thesis of the Minister of Finance that he says, so we have relieved the economy, and we have transferred the crisis, i.e. the burden of recovery and consolidation of the fiscus to Croatian citizens. It simply can't be true, I think we all understand, especially in a small country like us, that we are all in one, in several combined vessels and that Croatian citizens depend directly on the Croatian economy and vice versa. I am not just talking about the consumption of Croatian citizens and the impact on the Croatian economy. I must also say that in the 21st century, it will in no way be possible especially for a large economy such as ours by any means of coercion or prohibition to stimulate a new wave of economic growth. The only way, this concerns both the CNB and every Croatian government and any institution in the country, solely by mobilising and adhering parts of the system to new activity and motivating can be achieved really economic recovery first and afterwards economic growth. And finally, I think that the Croatian banks, I said already regardless of the property, I think the time has come to start and take part in the search for exits for the Croatian economy, not only by refinanced the cheaper Croatian entrepreneurs and not looking for, and not looking for a continuous exit for their profitability and which is good and welcome in the public sector and public enterprises because the bankers are also aware, which is that as I have already said their clients depend directly on the Croatian economy. And thank God they are still dominant Croatian citizens in the private sector, so it is necessary to find a solution for Croatian entrepreneurs, especially medium and small, because in the next 5 to 10 years a new wave of employment in Croatia will dominantly come not from large systems, not from public administration, do not give God and the public sector, but from the works of medium and small entrepreneurs. And I think that there should be absolutely all the forces, not only the current public administrations, or the left government, but also the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19216	Thank you, Your Honor. Two lines have been reported. The first replica is the respected representative of Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19217	Your Honor. My colleague Milosevic, I did intonate my debate in the sense of stressing that it is really okay that this high profitability and banking sector is in Croatia, but I also stressed that this is the face of the moment, so in the context of the situation that is currently in the economy and what is among the citizens of Croatia. So it's good in principle that the result of the banking sector is so good that they make such a high profit. I said it was primarily a result of high capitalisation of banks, it is good, however, it is not good to know that most of the funds for their commercial banks are alimony, as I have just said from the savings of Croatian citizens and from the deposits of business entities. So it's incompatible, that you take these funds on the one hand, on the other hand you place them at such high interest rates and make such a high profit. And at the same time, you're exhausting both the economy and the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19218	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milovšević.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19219	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, we agree, so I didn't even intonate in my debate, which is exactly what I wanted to conclude. I'm glad you agree with the fact that profitability is good and significant. What would be interesting is what you've just opened up as a question, and that's what's heard when we talk about saving in Croatian banks. Which is part of the savings of really Croatian citizens, i.e. Croatian citizens, which is part of the savings that is actually transferred from abroad to foreign-owned banks or to Croatian banks. So, at multiple interest on deposits in the Republic of Croatia than it is in some other countries in the environment. And in this sense, of course, that banks can and should certainly participate in the fact that the Croatian economy at the threshold in the European Union cannot be successful if it pays three, four times as much interest as competition, rather than paying for competition in Western or central Europe. In this sense, I pointed out at the beginning of my debate that yet the ultimate weapon, i.e. tools, has the Croatian Government and the success of the management of the Croatian state and Croatian economy on these interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19220	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic has the next line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19221	Dear Mr Milosevic, we traditionally replicate and here is the moment when I fully agree with your debate, and I would just like to point out that only a malicious and foolish man would look forward to the loss of banks in Croatia. That's what no one's ever said and I haven't heard in this high house... The disproportionateness of height, I agree with you, it's in the description of the state, the authorities. The business of banks in Croatia, I stress, not Croatian banks, see the structure of German banks in which banks are owned in a state-owned 50 % state-owned state. So why is it that if it's so bad, then Germany doesn't sell it all out and say, "Here you are, we're the bad lords." She's a bad authority, not a bad master. So, it's not a problem to win banks, it's a problem to tax the banking sector, the problem is to deal with the banking sector, the problem seems to me in some quiet agreement that banks can do whatever they want without the government reacting. And then I repeat again, because today we are discussing how the Croatian National Bank did business in 2011, and then there is the problem of the Croatian National Bank which should be warned at least because the tools, the instruments, stand here in the Parliament, or before on a proposal from the Government, and then here in the Parliament are the votes. But we don't want to, and I repeat, we're not at the service of the citizens, we're not protecting the citizens. We need to protect the banks, but we need to protect the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19222	Thank you very much. Replication response. Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19223	Thank you very much. In a good part, we agree, or almost entirely, except that you mentioned your colleague Vukusic one sentence, and I generally object, and we have warned from the beginning that this will not give the desired results, which is, you mentioned, the taxation of banks. I don't think, not only when I'm talking about bank taxation, but generally, therefore, new taxes, higher taxes will not solve the issue of our economy and will not contribute to economic recovery but rather to the opposite. We warned in this high house over six, seven months ago what would happen if the VAT was raised. The result is obvious. Let's just talk numbers. Let's look at last year, the second third quarter, one part of economic recovery and growth when we technically exited the recession last year is also directly related to the abolition of six months before the deadline. So you can see exactly the trend of economic growth, i.e. the decline. And this year, too. So, more tax burden, and I'm talking about it myself all the time, let's not forget that we have almost four years of economic crisis in continuum. So both Croatian citizens and the economy have spent almost all their reserves, used. So the new imposes, the new higher taxes will absolutely solve nothing but deepen the crisis and the vicious circle which, meaning the negative spiral, unfortunately continues and not finally stop the fall and collapse. And the other day I was talking about the fall in the purchasing power of Croatian citizens, the fall in standards. So that's where you just need to draw the line. It's not going to be new taxes, bigger taxes can change that, it's going to be the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19224	Thank you very much. We've completed the list of the defendants we've filed for discussion. I'm calling Vice Governor of the Honorable Relja Martić for the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I'll do it very briefly. First of all, I'd like to thank you for the debate that's being held here this afternoon, and I'd just like to not look back at the particulars of the previous governor, but I'd just like to say just because we're very aware of the times we're in, what a difficult crisis we're in. I am a good part of my presentation just dedicated to showing and explaining how much the central bank really cares and is in the service of interest of Croatian and Croatian citizens, but of course within the legal frameworks which its tasks are and in the way it can do so. And I repeat what I said in the opening statement, it can do so by keeping the financial system healthy, stable, shock-resistant, to keep the course stable, to keep relatively and inflation low and prices stable, and ultimately to run an active, monetary policy, if modatable, which at these times ensures the high liquidity of the banking system that in this way does not destabilise certain nominal sizes in our economy. Here, that's what I was going to say, I was going to say very briefly about the course, but I mean, I realized that you talked a lot about yesterday. What might surprise you, but I'm really going to say that a stronger exchange rate policy in terms of stronger depreciation and devaluation, it would have certain and short-term effects and above all a positive effect in this way to reduce our real wages. All of us. But there are many others in the economy, such as Croatia's, negative effects that are much more difficult and would cause a lot of major disturbances and problems for all sectors, both the state and the economy and the population if the exchange rate depreciation policy was conducted. And for this reason, the CNB will continue to conduct such a course policy and considers it appropriate and, in particular, new analyses by many refuting the old textbook as a depreciation = export increase = increase in employment in an economy such as Croatia. It would, however, lead to recession movements, not an increase in employment. But no matter what, I would just like to turn a little bit further into the future and thank everyone again who stressed in the debate the need for a greater role of the CNB in strengthening consumer protection. And it's really something that is at the heart of our interest and work and we can freely announce to Mrs. Jelash and others who have said about it that the CNB has been doing this for the past few months and has shown that it has a far greater initiative to bring some things to the right track and that in some ways it works much more to protect the users of banking services. Here's another thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19226	Thank you, Vice Governor. Replications have been reported to your presentation. First is Honorable Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19227	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to say that my ears were burning even though it wasn't about me, but I don't think I'm going to look back on that essay on the former governor is the way to communicate with the promoter who comes outside of the Croatian Parliament and the MPs in the Assembly, especially agreeing or disagreeing with the the thesis that the representative put out, so I would ask that we, however, keep an eye on the dignity of the institutions and the people sitting in those institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19228	Thank you very much. Second replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19229	Here I am proud that if you recognized the essayist in my speech, I believe it goes to my expense, but I am not angry with it, everyone has the right to think and speak and we are already taught in the Croatian Parliament that whenever representatives of the Government or some other representatives come to hold our bouquets here and just because our ears don't pull us back. It's all right. You said that the financial system is stable on shocks, but they're not stable citizens on shocks, and they're experiencing more and more shocks today and I don't know how long these shocks will be able to survive. He's experimenting and I completely agree before Mr. Milosevic said one thing, just to clarify. No one's for new taxes, but the state has instruments to de-simulate banks to impose bigger interest rates. To impose bigger interest on loans and citizens and employers. That's what I'm talking about, I'm not advocating for new taxes, but on the contrary, I'm trying to cut it down. And you mentioned before Mr. Vice Governor of recession, anti-recession. In Croatia, there is a recession policy, not anti-recession policy. More and more citizens are saving, less spending. All countries around the country in the more advanced part of Europe have come out of recession by stimulating consumption, not keeping money in stockings. But our ministers, every time they stand in front of the cameras, the citizens are terrified, they're sweating from their faces because they're scared, they're not going to be tomorrow, we're all going to die, there's going to be cataclysm, etc. There's a recession policy at work, and no one's gonna hear it. We've already said that 20 times, 30 times in the Parliament, and that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19230	Thank you, too. This ended up being reported for discussion and replication. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. The annual report of the Croatian National Bank for 2011, the debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2011. a year." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Are there any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 110 for, 10 against and 3 abstentions, have been reached with the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19233	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, before you is the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2011 containing numerous statistical and other data from which it is possible to learn much about the work of the State Commission and the way we do it. Before presenting the main features of the report, allow a few words about the State Commission itself. The State Commission shall be the independent and independent state body responsible for resolving complaints in public procurement, concessions and public-private partnerships, and for submitting indictments for infringements prescribed by public procurement legislation. In order to understand the way the State Commission works, it should be pointed out that the State Commission cannot, under its official duty, control public procurement procedures, but does so exclusively in the complaints of the complainants. As far as the 2011 report itself is concerned, the State Commission received 1921 complaints that it did not represent a significant increase compared to 2010 when there were 1919 complaints. But compared to 2009, when there were 1420 complaints, there was a 35 per cent increase. The question is, why are there so many complaints? We do not know, it is to assume that the reasons are in raising the level of knowledge among the complainants, about their rights in the legal protection procedures in public procurement, then in a state marked by the economic crisis. It is to be assumed that the private sector, at a time of difficult economic opportunities, is doing everything in its power to get to work, and that is how the complaint is filed in public procurement. But a large number of complaints certainly also point to the trust the parties have in the work of the state commission. What certainly contributes to the reputation of the state commission is a high level of transparency of the work of the state commission. In accordance with the positive regulations, all decisions taken by the State Commission and made publicly available on the State Commission's website are in full form. In addition, there is a public register of administrative cases on our site, which can be monitored for all items of procurement not covered by the complaint. In this way, it is possible to provide a large number of entities with information on any public procurement procedure which is subject to control before the State Commission. The effects of high levels of labour transparency are double, education of entities and the fight against corruption. A necessary prerequisite for the smooth work of each state body, and so the state commission is a sufficient number of employees. Although 22 professional advisors were employed during 2011 it should be noted that not everyone worked during 2011, throughout the year. Namely, 5 expert counselors attended maternity services, so during 2011, 3 consultants were employed as a substitute for job counselors who use maternity leave. It should be noted that new employees in the nature of things are not able to achieve full functionality immediately after the conclusion of the labour contract. Because public procurement legislation is extremely complex and extensive, and almost every procurement procedure is normised by specific regulations relating to either the specific subject of procurement or the contracting authority. It therefore takes some time to adjust, i.e. to achieve full functionality of work. It should be noted that the resolution of a member of the state commission on a personal request in October 2011 left 1 seat of the state commission member and a reduced number of members of the state commission, so from 5 to 4 also affected optimal work. All of these negatively reflected the average length of the proceedings before the State Commission. Given the large number of cases and the continued expansion of competences, namely by entering EU membership. Public procurement legislation will apply to procedures financed from domestic sources and projects financed from EU funds. It is therefore necessary to provide sufficient material resources for the smooth functioning of the State Commission and to continue to strengthen administrative capacity both with regard to the number of expert advisors and with regard to the number of members. The state commission, as I have already stated, received 1921 complaints in 2011, which is only 5.95% on the total number of posts in the electronic advert. Out of the total number of complaints, 72 referred to the concession procedure, while there was no complaint against the public-private partnership procedure. In addition, in 2011, the state commission decided on 269 cases transferred from 2010, which resulted in a total of 2190 cases in 2011. Of which in 2011 they were resolved in 1888. Namely, all appeal cases received in one year cannot be resolved in that year, because complaints are received at the very end of the year, so they cannot be completed and necessarily transferred to the following year. As I have already cited, the state commission does not initiate appeal proceedings under official duty, but according to complaints from the complainants. However, once the appeal procedure has been initiated, the state commission controls the legality of the procurement procedure by official duty as well as significant violations of the law. In the complaint cases, the State Commission assessed in 24.74% of the cases the complaint was established, resulting in a decision to repeal the procurement and cancellation of the selection decision in full or in part. Due to a lack of procedural assumptions in 22.94% of cases, the appeal was dismissed, the appeal procedure was suspended in 16.45% of cases, while the complaint was rejected in 27.32% of cases. According to complaints received in 2011, the State Commission controlled 597 different contracting entities, i.e. the obligor of the application of the Public Procurement Act. The total value of controlled public procurement procedures in 2011 before the state commission was around 20 billion kuna. The state commission is also responsible for filing indictments for infringements prescribed by public procurement legislation, and 7 of the indictments for violations were filed during 2011. It should be pointed out that the complainants are obliged to pay compensation for the conduct of the appeal procedure before the State Commission in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act when initiating the appeal procedure. This fee is the revenue of the state budget, and in 2011 the state budget with the basis of the fee was paid 7 206,000 kuna and the approved budget of the state commission for 2011 was 8 717 000 kuna. According to these data, the state commission of the Republic of Croatia cost approximately $1,500 000. It should be further said that according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act against decisions of the State Commission, it is possible to declare the complaint to the Administrative Court. The parties to the proceedings against decisions taken by the state commission in 2011, which is a percentage of 7.3%. A small number of lawsuits may point to the fact that in about 92% of cases, the parties are satisfied with the State Commission's decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The State Commission Act, the annual report must also include an assessment of the situation on legal protection and public procurement in general. The State Commission can only give an assessment based on its practice as a sample, no different. The area of public procurement is extremely important for the whole society because it represents procedures for the supply of goods, works and services necessary for the smooth functioning of the state. The end-users of each case are citizens. Public procurement also has a significant impact on the economy in view of the high value of the public procurement contract. The legislation, institutions and practices should be laid down in a way that public procurement is carried out as a sustainable public procurement and that each procedure is given the best value for money. In the entire legal protection system, efforts should continue to be made to raise the level of knowledge of the participants in the proceedings. Continuing education also has an anti-corruption effect. Strong anti-corruption effects in the work of the State Commission are achieved primarily by the fact that the State Commission is set up and functioning as an independent and independent state body providing legal protection, thus ensuring the strengthening of the rule of law and sanctioning illegal public procurement practices. Achieving the powers of the State Commission and the anti-corruption instrument, since this State body repeals public procurement procedures that determine the conditions for cancellation and thus prevents the conclusion of harmful contracts. Strong anti-corruption effects in the work of the State Commission are also achieved by publishing all decisions in a full unanonymised form on the Internet. Here, above, I present a brief summary of the 2011 report on the work of the State Commission. What I would certainly like to point out in the end is the fact that the State Commission has maintained the quality of its work despite a large range of work. All employees of the State Commission are extremely successful in their work. I reiterate that there are too few people in a very important and sensitive business. I therefore take this opportunity to thank all the employees of the State Commission for their efforts in fulfilling their work tasks and for their outstanding quality of work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19234	Thank you, too, dear President of the State Commission. I'm opening a debate. Of course, first we will discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia and respected representative Ivan Klarin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19235	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures with Associates, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of my debate, I will point out that the SDP Representatives' Club will therefore support the 2011 report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is an independent and independent body, as we just heard from Madam President, although I may say... many institutions in the Republic of Croatia. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, state bodies, units of local and regional and regional self-government, as well as bodies established for the purpose of meeting public interests. It is certainly a good fact that the number of cases is constantly growing around 2008. So in 2008, we had a thousand and twenty cases and in 2011, the number of cases increased to 1921, which further speaks of the great trust of all those who have the right to appeal to the Commission. The State Board of Appeals cannot initiate formal proceedings but only at the request of the complainants, and we have heard many times over the past few years various criticisms about all those who are investigating public procurement not to do so in accordance with the Law and so on, but I must say here that the Commission has no opportunity to stop such illegal actions at that stage if we can call them that. In particular, it is a problematic violation of the Law by the contracting authorities when the contracting authority is directly agreed before, so with the contractor and putting together the consumers themselves, when even before each publication, a potential contractor of future works draws up this cost and normal self-privileged position knowingly in breach of that Act. But, I repeat, the Commission, unfortunately, has no authority to prevent it at that stage. In any event, I would also stress the Commission's anti-corruption role to prevent the final manifestation of potential corruption in the process, knowing the facts on the Commission from ending only a small number of those public procurements that may be illegal and that a much larger number remains intact, i.e. that they're going through the way they're supposed to start, which is that they're hitting somebody. Given the constant number of cases that come to the Commission, the period of settlement of the case is extended, I have to say that, unfortunately, in 2008, it was only 30 days, maybe that 30 days is a lot, and today we have data that it is over 60 days, i.e. You stated in your report that it was exactly 61 days ago. I've listed your website. Unfortunately, there are data there, therefore, and unsolved items and over 120 days, so from the month of May, June and July there are unsolved cases. Normally, this component does not satisfy at all, and the urgency and speed of conducting the procedures themselves. The number of employees is probably not responding to the desired speed of settlement of the case because of a total of 32 employees, we know that 5 people comprise only the Commission, and the number of professional associates and employees is only 22 employees. Normally, this is too small and there is a need to work in this field to increase the additional number of employees. In the SDP, it is a challenge for us to speed up and shorten the deadlines for the decision to appeal because no one is in the interest of the Commission to be a slower for the development of all those on whom they decide in the process of resolving complaints. And I'm not saying that's the case now, but a constant number of year-to-year increases can lead to an extension of deadlines of no more than 60 days, but don't give God 90 days. Then we're all in trouble together, which is why we're depending on the commission. In the economic crisis, we all have a faster interest in moving economic activities, but also in faster development. A special unit of local and regional self-government. Therefore, such problems need to be addressed by strengthening administrative capacity and nothing else. It is a particular problem that some complainants do not pay compensation in time and things like that are happening only to slow down certain public procurement, and we have cases where individual entrepreneurs who are engaged in the same or similar activity are conflicting over the back of the commission. So it's not a rare case if they have the same sales activity, for example. Communal equipment. We have cases that deliberately appeal to each other again at the expense of the units of local self-government and other public bodies. On behalf of the financial compensation, therefore, 7.2 million kuna was paid in the 2011 budget, and the Commission's budget was approved for the same year with 8.7 million kuna. So, the main role of the commission is transparency, but also speed because we haven't done much, so if in certain complaints I just said deadlines will be over 120 days. In this regard, we may also be jeopardizing some projects if we know that some projects are provided in the current year. For example, a local self-government unit or a ministry that has the means to secure whether a public procurement in the 6th month from pre-accession funds or state funds for the current year, the complainant submits a complaint, the commission handles it for 60 days. So, we're getting into trouble that that money can't even be used by that body, and then it's actually something, something that's the worst thing that's going on is that it's jeopardizing the project itself, and normally it's not in anyone's interest. On page 23 of your report, you will also show a table of the number of complaints against the client. It is logical that those companies that explore the largest number of public procurements annually have the largest number of complaints, including in 2011 the water of Croatian water, Croatian highways, Croatian roads, Croatian forests, etc. In fact, next year I'd like to see, in the SDP, we'd also like to see a table of the number of complainants, so those who file complaints and the number of applications filed, but also the number of resolutions. Therefore, whether it is in favour of the applicant or for the benefit of the unit of local self-government or other body of the public procurement authority. Structure of complaints received, subject matter according to the purchase value is expected. So the higher the estimated value there is the higher the number of complaints, and the logical and small number of complaints on amounts below 70 thousand kuna values so that in 2011, only 27 complaints were filed at amounts below 70 thousand kuna, amounting to 1.40%. But I would also commend those people because it is rare in Croatia to even question public procurement at less than 70,000 kuna. In fact, it is a practice that if you have a similar job in our country, you have the same supply of similar goods, e.g. Two hundred thousand kunas are all opting for the secession of this public procurement, and not to call it so that the problems are obvious, but I repeat, there is therefore no matter of the Commission to control the public procurement to solve this, but these applications are exclusively filed under official duty. Finally, I would say that in the SDP, we see the Commission's progress particularly in the number of cases solved, and the fact that the commission pours in and trusts all those who can rely primarily on it, I think, citizens, craftsmen and entrepreneurs. Normally this category is the most important thing for me at the end. For all the bad things that happened in the field of public procurement, and even in 2011 whose report we are discussing, but also in recent years, I do not see any responsibility of the Commission for the control of public procurement but I see the responsibility of some other bodies that could have been better and more flexible and should have done their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19236	Thank you, Your Honor. Next up is the HNS club. They'll split the debate into two parts. The first is a respected representative of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19237	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the State Commission for Public Procurement with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I was in preparation for this debate with the 2011 Report reviewing reports over the past few years, and I came to the conclusion that they are actually made mostly very high-quality, extensively and corely, which is for each commendation, but also continuously stressing the same problems and the same requirements that are not addressed also from year to year. Public procurement practice from 2008 to 2011 pointed to the need for significant changes and at the speed of resolution of appeal procedures, but also in the legal protection system in public procurement procedures. Since the new Public Procurement Act came into force on 1 January 2008, the number of appeals cases increased in 2008 by 62% and the trend continued. In 2009, the increase in appeal cases was 39% and 2010. 34%. In its provisions, the law extended the circle of complainants and increased the number of stages of public procurement procedures in which it is possible to declare the complaint, but of course the economic crisis has contributed to the fact that in all possible ways the businessmen actually try to win jobs. Therefore, a large number of complaints are frequent complaints from economic operators and contracting entities at all levels that the process of resolving complaints before the State Commission is simply taking too long. Namely, the data speak about it, and this is what my colleague before me from the SDP said, that the average appeal procedure in 2011, so from the moment of receipt of the complaint in the State Commission until the dispatch of the State Commission, lasted 61 days, and it is evident that certain processes lasted over 120 days and 130 days, which is absolutely unacceptable. This is certainly too long and it seriously inhibits all processes, and what is particularly important at the moment is seriously holding back economic processes. The procedure is too long and ineffective, and just to remind myself that the protection of the rights of economic operators is the effectiveness of the basic premise of the appeal procedure. As I pointed out at the beginning of the debate, the State Commission, with the report, stresses that there are too few people, too few members of the commission and too few expert advisors, given the importance of the work they are doing, I believe we all agree, absolutely unacceptable. It is unclear to me that this has been ignored year by year, and I am very pleased to hear that the new Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures will nevertheless change that. A large part of the new Public Procurement Act, which came into force from 1.01.2012, therefore, its effects are not visible in this report, with the aim of real, fast and effective protection of the rights of economic operators at the stage of the proceedings where illegalities can be corrected in time and allow for the continuation and legal completion of the public procurement procedure, and not how it was before to repeal the entire public procurement process and return it to the beginning, which of course further delays and delays all procedures and processes. It is extremely important to influence the effectiveness of the appeal procedures to amend the provisions relating to significant infringements of the law in which the difficulties observed in the previous legal solution and under the new law, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the appeal procedure should act exclusively within the limits of the grounds of appeal. Because so far, she had to review the entire paperwork regardless of whether the complaint pointed to it which, of course, led to a delay in the process again. What I would also set out as important is any increase in the fee for the appeal procedure, in particular for the appeal procedures of public procurement of high estimating values because the practice so far pointed to a large number of complaints which exclusively aimed at stopping, i.e. the intentional blocking the conclusion of a public procurement contract, rather than the actual protection of the right of a specific economic operator. What I would like to praise in this report, or the work of the commission, is certainly two things, first transparency and second anti-corruption action. In fact, the Commission is extremely transparent in its work, all decisions are made available on the Commission's website in full form with the name of the parties, and the register of administrative proceedings before the State Commission which is updated daily and thus the really widest circle of subjects can be met and monitored in front of the Commission. As far as anti-corruption activity is concerned, there are actually two effects, one is the control of procedures with consequence of annulment. Those who are claimed to have been implemented contrary to the law and preventing harmful contracts that are actually preventing the realization of potential corrupt behaviour, which is actually the main advantage because everything stops already in the process, so before the damage is done. That's actually the way it is, now that the numbers are looked at a little bit, the Batinic fellow will talk about it a little later, maybe it's not like that. So, in view of what I initially highlighted the report is sufficiently and extensively and clearly. I might not want to talk about him anymore, but a few words about what's waiting for us. Therefore, Croatia's entry into the EU into procurement procedures as part of the EU funds financing project is starting to apply national public procurement legislation. This is of course a significant difference and there is certainly a significant increase in the volume of public procurement, and consequently a significant increase in the number of legal protection applications. Given, of course, the need to exploit EU funds within the prescribed deadlines, but also given the fact that the current work of the State Commission is certainly too slow and seriously endangers the specific economic processes of the establishment and capacity of the State Commission, it is necessary to change. This is also the subject of a comprehensive monitoring report issued by the European Commission on 10 October in Chapter 5- Public procurement where the necessity of change and adaptation is listed in this regard as an obligation of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the Government is also preparing a new Law on the State Commission aimed primarily at speeding up the solution of appeal cases. According to the information I have, it is planned to replace the five members of the commission with 9 members so far, i.e. to create 3 councils that could work parallelly and decide in cases and we believe that this would significantly speed up the process of resolving complaints. From this point on, we can conclude that the commission has done well within possible frameworks, that there are assumptions that its work is even better and even more effective and therefore the HNS Club will support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19238	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Honorable Croatian Assembly Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19239	Thank you Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the State Commission. Namely, as my colleague Natalia said, I'll have some numbers and a little bit from behind. The total amount, of course, I will speak affirmatively in terms of and I would like the representatives of the commission to understand me but also with certain suggestions. Speaking of the total amount of estimated value of the purchase of received appeal cases, 20 billion 691 million 773 thousand kunas are placed in the context of 1921 complaints, i.e. 1600 and some resolved 403 which turns out to be published 25 thousand 244 1.6%, looking at the total and when we talk about that part of the anti-corruption action. I agree that there should be control, surveillance never enough and I'm not questioning the effects, but I'm also a mathematician and I'm having a hard time getting rid of numbers and looking at numerically some facts. Namely, what is it? I'd like to suggest on the next report that's going to follow up on some things and conjecture this year. In fact, I would stick to it for a while, time will allow me, meaning certain findings, trust in the work of the commission – I don't doubt it. However, also reading these statistics since 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, we also know very well that the turning point was economical, investment in 2008. In 2007, you couldn't win the contractors' contest and went at very high prices, very much who rarely complained. In 2009, the lack of jobs, the lack of investment, the tenth, especially the eleventh, and by the logic of things, if we are going to think about it, the increase in appeal procedures is increasing. When we look at this part where the Report is table-based, which is how I say the repeaters of errors, two, three, four times and more, it would suggest certain recommendations to these companies, mainly about state-owned companies. As resolved in 2011, 1629 complaints, the appeal was adopted to 24, 74, meaning 25% of those who complained. And what I was saying, as I was saying, when you put into context 20 billion investment, it would be interesting if you had the information available, that you could make one table of those 25 thousand total public procurement and see in the structure how much participation is solved, how much in the structure it means by looking at the level of supply, I think that even the conclusions could be far more good for us for discussion than for you specifically and as some suggestion. Therefore, this part of your conclusions relating to anti-corruption activities means that these 23 thousand procurement procedures have been carried out where there have been no objections or complaints, that everything is clean here. I am responsible for telling you that there has been corruption. I'm just saying as a precaution, approach, try to make a plate because the numbers are ruthless. As for this other part of the Report, as far as the nature of the errors is concerned, I would still be fenced in one section because I have been in JLS for two years and I know very well the procedures for public procurement, I know the problems, I believe that you have certain technical problems which I will certainly support, especially as regards services in the construction sector. You have one case where I've been running public procurement for three years in a row and two players, so to speak, simply if one of them gets an offer, the other one deliberately complains and will do anything to make sure that the next one doesn't get a job. Of course, that's something that, let's say the services may not have been able to see. These new amendments or the new Law since 2011 have simplified things. However, I would suggest that you try your facilities professionally, I say you will have support here from all of us in the Parliament, but that in some specifics you bring real experts. Because it's not easy to analyze the costs, analyze, table on what the dumping price is. I mean, I see you nodding, so you're facing these problems. Believe me, at local and regional level, too. All in all, I say, I'm sorry that I wanted to discuss it individually, unfortunately I have to replace President of the Parliament, here, I will support the report but with a small fence and a suggestion of anti-corruption. I say, try to put in 25 thousand public procurement procedures, as far as the appeal procedure is concerned, that's 1.6%. And every kuna to discover corruption, to prevent it is commendable, but I'm saying more maybe you'd concentrate on some better quality let's say tables that you could just have a better foothold in what you've come to realize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19240	Thank you, too, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The next is the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19241	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues! There is a report before us that is technically made of pure quality and anyone who wants to read it can read a lot from it. However, I think this debate in high school deserves a little debate between the lines. To say reading among the figures because I simply think that all the clubs that have spoken so far and the SDP and the HNS club and on the trail of this will be the debate of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we can agree that the Commission's work over the past year has been a strong anti-corruption instrument. It's just a fact that we can't all run away from. Also, colleague Martincevic from the HNS Club said, not directly but how to say, it was transferred, which is that we built institutions. And that's very important because when we talk about opening up space in the coming years that we can withdraw billions of euros, if we don't have an institution that will control certain procedures then what happened to our neighbours will happen to Slovenians, which is happening to some other European countries that due to poor public procurement procedures, due to poor public procurement control came to them, so to say, the sword of truth, the sword of justice, and they have to return those funds. So we've definitely built an institution in recent years. Why are we talking, because it started during the coalition government and later it continued. And if you read a little bit through the figures and as far as the case is concerned, and especially as far as the nominal part of the total complaint is concerned, then you will see that, except in 2011, where the businessmen have already begun to feel the burden of the three-year crisis, more or less the amounts to which complaints have been filed in those past years have been within the limits of a billion up, a billion down. And that points to something. However, what I would like to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, and that is something that my colleague Batinic was saying, so I will just try to complement it, look, in the year in which we had a technical exit from the recession, and then finally the last quarter where negative economic indicators happened again we have 20 billion kuna complaints. We will or will not admit 20 billion kunas of state money has been frozen for a certain period. And this is not going to criticise the commission at all, that we understand each other, but whoever of us is in touch with either, whether at local level, whether, I mean the county, whether at the state level there were those on call because simply because of the job crisis, because of the lack of work everyone decided to regret and all of a sudden we got the courage to complain and if they didn't get the job they were going to tear down the existing job, hoping that in the next public competition they would get that job. However, if you freeze 20 billion, and when you look at 5 billion goods, the work of 9 billion and 600, the services of 5 billion and 700 would probably be different in the economy of the Republic of Croatia in a timely manner. And that's just the fact that we need to talk about and speak openly for a reason, I'm talking about 2011 when HDZ was in power with the coalition. Why? Because we're going to discuss similar numbers probably next year. They just won't be different. And that's why colleagues and colleagues have certain economic trends, certain trends that simply go through certain periods that don't recognise the political option, but they're just like that and you can't overwrite them. And that's why I like this debate today, because today we haven't moved into this debate a ball of each other but aware of the fact that we've built certain institutions with certain virtues and flaws and this HNS initiative to go into a legal change so that maybe we can start 2, 3 or 4 councils why not? However, if this will increase the efficiency of the Commission's work, and we already have transparency because it's all being published on websites, there's no reason not for the HDZ club to support one such initiative. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues at times when we attack each other as much as anyone had an investment is neither tourist season like this year or last year better than the previous one because the tourism ministers or the government attracted us to something than simply certain overruns went the same way as the infrastructure that was built in Croatia in the previous years, and we also attacked each other because of this infrastructure created this so that we had the results of the tourist season as it is. And also because of this report, I think we should all work together to help the commission, help all the heads of state to reduce these 20 billion. Not accusing each other of taking part in crime, but simply eliminating those who for speculant reasons approach the competition, hoping to catch something in the blur, and if they don't catch something in the blur, I'm going to go complain, and I'm going to shoot down the competition, so I'm going to do something. I will give you an example of the Zagreb-Sisak highway case. HACs who are on the verge of such a shame over only three or four times were cancelled the competition for the purchase of gravel because they always complained about someone who was on the verge of meeting the conditions for even access to the competition. However, the highway stood for seven months because you simply couldn't get the gravel, and the gravel is not a very small item in the construction of the highway and in such a way that it might have been installed, if it had turned some 70, 80 million kunas, perhaps certain macroeconomic indicators would have been different. Because when you look at what I said in 2004 you had 7 billion complaints and then it stabilized somewhere at 5.5 billion. Why? Because it was simply economic growth over 5%, and you, if you have called some kind of tender for some construction works in the Republic of Croatia, were lucky that someone came to you at all because they were all busy because there was a huge expansion in construction, etc. And the logical thing is that many people never even complained about it because they were aware if they complained about that competition that they would never get a job in that company again. And that's the same truth we can't escape from. And then comes the 2008 crisis, 2010, in 2011, where it's suddenly jumping practically 100% up. And those are the facts. But the same are the facts if we want to have economic growth next year, I'm telling me because it's simply the interest of all of us, first of all here, of Parliamentarians and I believe in the government, if we want to be effective in withdrawing EU funds then all of what we have paid dearly from our own budget, all of what has burned us in the past, we need to be the mother of wisdom for tomorrow. Don't let that happen to us tomorrow. Because look, Croatia is in a special situation when negotiating to join the EU because it went alone, enters the EU at a rather political and economically sensitive moment and make sure that EU spending control in Croatia will not be under double, not under threefold, but under a tenfold increase. And so simply this institution that we've been building needs to be strengthened, we need to give them the strength to eliminate those mules, to do our jobs as well as possible, and as best as possible to withdraw as much funds and ultimately to do something with other people's resources that we want to do at home, and to use the funds from our budget and budget of local self-government units for some other projects. We simply must not bring ourselves into a situation where what happened to Bulgarians and Romanians happened in the first year of practically withdrawing only 10% of the access funds, we must not happen to be characterised or marked by the EU that we are a state that is unable to carry out public procurement, which is not certain processes that are not able to keep under control. That is why sometimes the weight of the words, the debate of all of us in this House, we should imagine that the word spoken in the Assembly by a parliamentary representative has a special weight and that someone listens. And then they'll qualify us as maybe we're not. That is why, at the end of the HDZ Club, it will support this report by the Commission aware that both the number of complaints and the nominal amount of complaints in 2011, is largely the result of the economic crisis, also aware of the facts, and it was agreed by at least I interpreted it to myself, and by colleagues from other clubs, that we built institutions, that this is a strong instrument for fighting corruption, that all of these decisions are not discretionary law of colleagues and colleagues from the commission, but simply to implement consistent laws that we have made in this House of Commons. And if we want them to be more efficient and better, then we have to try to make it even clearer and even better. So with someone like that, I might think it might even be some kind of joint conclusion. I find that the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19242	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boris Kovacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Schooker gave me one good creamworth because... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah. Let's talk a little between the lines. Well, here's what I'm gonna use. And then there it was again, and I quote, "Switching the ball." Well, we don't have anything to move the ball now. If we're dividing on your side and ours, there's nothing to come by. Not because you're not here in the assembly right now, but there's nothing to suggest. We'd already, if we were bad, if we were malignant, we could've done it already, you know. Why is it, and you know it well, why is the number of complaints increased? For these reasons which are accurately described and which you have accepted. It's a lack of work, a fight for work, so let's go complain maybe we get it. There were also valid reasons. But there was also revenge. It was for everything that was bad in public procurement when it hadn't worked yet, I agree with you that we should all advocate for strengthening institutions, but we know that they were weak in one age and we know about how public procurement was going and how certain jobs were being obtained. What's out of the conversation, which is exact. And there's also one part to look for both these complaints and in that package. I know for a fact. And there's also part of the answer. But here I'm going to end up calmly, we're going to push for the strengthening of institutions, and let's look into some environments here where there's no problem or almost no problem in implementing public procurement institutes. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19244	Thank you, too. We don't have a reply to the replica? Okay, weird. [[Intruder: No.]] We're moving on to an individual debate. Branko Hrg, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19245	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the State Commission. I will say that the State Commission to resolve complaints in public procurement is a narrow throat and a rock for the stumbling block of Croatia's economic development and the development of local self-government. And it's not the guilt of the people working on that commission, it's the guilt of a system that's actually gotten in the middle of the road, and then it didn't do what it was supposed to do, and it was supposed to increase the number of people who were going to work on it, speed up the procedures, put them on seven days to solve, and we would have a completely different picture today. As already said here in all these exhibitions, the 2012 Report will be very similar. It's been waiting three to four months for the appeal procedure to get rid of him. It is said here that somewhere around 7 million was income for the part that pays those who complain if they are not respected. I think the Commission's income can be much bigger and should put much bigger penals and fines for those who complain, only to crash the competition if they didn't get a job understanding the crisis, but often these complaints are groundless and they create problems especially for people in local self-government. HSS has a lot of mayors, mayors, mayors and very well knows about it with its colleagues and colleagues often talk about it, and I know how many times we lose money, we lose funds that we have a hard time fighting for, for which we scratch the doors in various offices here in Zagreb and then when we finally vote it, we discuss competitions often in collaboration with state companies and then those who naturally fight for their place in the sun, for work, for their companies, for their dividends. Not to say that often some companies pay the minimum wage to people, and eventually they pay the dividend. Which is the same thing as the nakarada of a society if we want to develop it, then we have to look at it differently. And then we have a problem, and in the end, the complaint is resolved so it's rejected. They pay several thousand kunas and fines or expenses, and that's how it all ends. We lose money and we lose nothing of it all together. One proposal, there were many speeches that there was a lot of administration in Croatia, that there was a lot of red tape, that there were a lot of civil servants, that there were people in the country, that they needed to be reduced. So here I suggest that we deploy and redistribute a part of those people that are in state services by various agencies, the ministries don't know what it's all about, to put them in a position to get rid of complaints faster, to get them solved within 7 days, to increase the penals of those who wrongly complain, and those who have failed to bear the same sanctions, and that in this way, we take a step in the launch of economic projects and preserve jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19246	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19247	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Commission. Well, here I think earlier today we've heard almost everything on behalf of the clubs that mattered to this report. It's really hard to talk about and discuss because the numbers are numbers, they're exact, they're what they are and we can't even question them. However, here may be a few words about the trends that this report points to. I'm kind of experiencing it when we talk about these public procurement procedures, and that's what you mentioned, Vice President, that it's kind of comparable to illegal construction. If anyone saw you, if anyone reported you, you're a lawless builder. Also in the area of public procurement if anyone saw you, if anyone wanted to complain, you are in the appeal process. But if you're not obviously, then everything's fine. We all know that it is not and that may be the problem referred to by the Law on the State Commission, where it is clearly stated that this commission is not or is not possible to act against it under official duty and to take a particular subject to which there is no appeal. However, perhaps a guideline for thinking when we are about to change something, so we hear the Law on the State Commission that such power can be given to them at a certain point and they can take certain items, especially if it is possible for them to hear the officials, i.e. The people who are on the committee will be more and more, which is certainly desirable and I support it. Because indeed 5 members of the commission, along with all those who are employed there, who themselves state that they have a problem in functioning because they can't physically handle so many complaints that are growing every year. We support this thinking that you may need to think about a number of commissions with 3, 4, 5 members, irrelevant because we see that the cost of costing the State Commission is only one million and a half kuna with the incomes they had and that when we put it in relation to the total funds blocked here last year, it is clear that the question is whether we are allowed to risk an investment cycle of 20 billion kuna for 2 or 5 million kuna. It's something that I say the government has to deal with seriously, and if we find all the good solutions together, I think that this investment cycle, which in this year let's say almost stopped just because of the change of government, because of the different schedule of ministries, and even the complete changes in the saying of the entire ministries, we today say the almost investment cycle starts now at 10 or 11 months, which is unacceptable and the fact that large funds will remain unexpended and unrealised. How's the State Department doing? The budget in the 12th month, 1st, 2rd, 3rd month until all the projects are collected, until certain ministers are reached, until certain let's say meetings, talks, and by the time it starts, you get contracts in the 5th, 6th month. One complaint about the procedure you did not realize possible and 20 million that the Minister of Good Will or for the best project that one complaint in the process you lost 20 million kuna of investment. The private sector I say solves it very quickly and efficiently, of course if there are interests and money and there are no such problems. Trade centres are built or I don't know what manufacturing halls are built within 2, 3 months, and while I say a public administration has problems with small buildings and I can't build them for a few years. That's why I think the State Commission should get a possible say and some new powers, but there should certainly be more. Trends show that we are growing this part means the appeal deadlines for responding to an appeal which already exceeds even let's say the public procurement cycle of 2 months, we see that this has failed and that this almost now means a deadline while you get a response to the complaint is bigger than what you've been doing I say about 60 days public procurement. Maybe it's this page 37 to think about. — the structure of the appeal cases in view of the selection criteria. The lowest price is 1845 items. I think there may be the biggest problem of our public procurement. The lowest is the lowest, the lowest is the least, and we can see it's not. Maybe it's time to think about rejecting the lowest and most, of course, with variations if we only have one or two offers to think about saying that this lowest one is not the object they're competing for. Then every employer and every performer, who seeks his job, will try to be realistic, will try to be in line with his profession, try to find the best solution to this job because as soon as his procedure is the lowest, it is the easiest. He then goes with the dumping price, he calcifies with quantities and, of course, it comes to the fact that after every investment that has been arranged, and a large number, here it is confirmed today and over 50% requires additional bargaining and the intention of everything that is real and was. However, the procurement process has said otherwise. Further work is still a problem for everyone today, especially in public procurement procedures, etc. I'm telling everyone more work, and maybe I'm saying it's time to start thinking about it since the recession and the crisis made its own that prices are normal and they're much lower, especially in the building than we had in 2005, 2006 and 2007, and in 2008 that today I'm saying the same objects can be built for twice the price, and that the most real are the medium offers that are unselected in public procedures. But when I say after the deal, it comes to them, then we realize that maybe it was the most real thing and that we lost the reception. I believe that the State Commission is the most relevant that it can and may have encouraged, if it has noticed in its work some shortcomings in the Public Procurement Act itself, because we see that you are not only acting on the appeal of the one who complains, but it means you reject and/or respect complaints by some other criteria that are not mentioned in the complaint, which is good. However, it may be good that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, it may be even deeper into the Public Procurement Act and suggest certain changes based on your knowledge that you have the most. It's certainly the state administration that's calling it off. And what a colleague of the SDP club said I'd like to see, I think I would, and I believe that everyone would like to see what companies are complaining about and how many of them there really are. I suppose there are, that there are some, and there's a job where they find their interests and that it would be good if we already had everything almost on the Ministry's page that we get a ranking with these reports and these companies that have complained a dozen times, and we don't know their name and we know everything else and we know who wrote it, etc. etc. I don't think it's anything that's difficult, and then we can all draw a certain conclusion from that. Here I think I've said everything I wanted more or less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19248	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with. Does the President of the State Commission want it? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Pavličević.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19249	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would briefly refer to some of the remarks of the distinguished representatives. As for the length of the solving of the case, we are aware of it and we are doing everything in our power to resolve this problem and to reduce that time. However, the solution is to strengthen administrative capacity by hiring both advisers and members, and sufficient resources are needed to do so. Strengthening capacity needs to be done as much as the degree of membership of the European Union will apply national public procurement legislation to procedures financed by domestic resources and projects financed by the European Union funds. So the scope of the State Commission's work will increase further. Some forecasts will increase the size of the job by about 50%. It is therefore necessary to provide for preconditions and it is high time to deal with cases quickly and successfully. In particular, material resources should be provided for the purpose of strengthening administrative capacity. Proposals by the honourable legislators relating to the report which should be reported next year, which should be further contained. They will be largely respected, as well as the new Law on the State Commission, which is in preparation to regulate the issue and extend the obligation in some parts, which would go towards expanding our liaison and information report on the contracting authorities and the number of purchases carried out, the number of procedures and everything else. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate and for the praises that you have made both for the comments and suggestions that should be taken into account in any case. That's what we'll consider. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19250	Thank you, too. I thank Mrs. Vlad Pavlaicevic and his associates. This concludes with the report on the work of the State Commission to control the procurement procedures. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19251	The annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2011, the debate on the report was concluded. In line with the proposal of the Economic Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2011. a year." I'm asking you, by raising your hand, to state who's behind the proposal for a conclusion. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by most votes, 112 for and 12 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19252	We are moving to the 2011 Annual Report. Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency Reports is the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency based on Article 21. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. You received the material by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You also received reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative wish to further explain? No, I don't. The representatives of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nikola Vuljanic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next on behalf of the HDZ club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm afraid of my colleagues, I must say, and I also spoke to the Committee on Finance that we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club were surprised to see that the government did not accept the HANFA report for the past year, and especially when we read the reason then our surprise was particularly large for the simple reason that the management of the HANFA was replaced, the president of the administration expired his mandate. We have said this opinion, the HANFA Act has changed, and the logical thing is that when the government discusses, and also this High House on the report of independent regulators, then I think that policy simply has no place. There is no room in particular if there is no valid arguments, and I will later quote from the Government a statement by the Minister of Finance and we at the Croatian Democratic Community club feel that there are really no valid arguments to reject the Report, because there are some things that are not yet legally seen or completed but are only at a certain level of appeal completed but continue. Especially, I'll talk about it later when I talk about Finna. In particular, we believe that it is very dangerous in this way to justify not accepting an independent regulator and controller report that controls a practically complete non-banking financial sector that regulates and actually controls securities trading. And at times when we're all saying that we want to attract foreign investors one of the key arguments if you want to bring someone to invest in your country is legal security. And if you tell him in this way that someone who can get his neck license tomorrow, forbid trading shares or anything else you can not accept the report. You're sending an extremely negative message out. But let's take it in a row. So I quote: "At the government's meeting of individual decisions, the principles of proportionality and justice were not respected, our doubts confirmed the recent rulings of the High Administrative Court in the case of Liburni, in the case of Agrokor and Belje.", and in particular what we have in mind is not stopped trading shares at a time when the state consolidates individual legal entities. Unfortunately, we must say that there are still a number of administrative disputes in the Administrative Court and the outcomes of many of them are uncertain and that is why the government is proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the HANFA report last year. However, colleagues and colleagues need to know that when we talk about certain judgments, certain cases of the agencies do not bring this up under some discretionary law, but rather adopts by respecting the laws of the Republic of Croatia, the laws that have been passed in this high house. And among other things, this is about the law of clear prescribed procedures in cases governed by the Act on the takeover of companies and under the said law of the acquisition of shares, and the creation of the obligation to take over commercial companies under the law, and the decision of HANFE is declarative in which it does not have the possibility of pardoning or any other discretionary, arbitrary decision. When we talk about Liburna, then we have to say that it's not a 2011 subject, it's a 2007 case. So, the HANFA made a decision in 2007 as regards Liburnia, not 2011. Moreover, the High Administrative Court did not resolve the case in 2011 but returned it to HANFA in 2012. So that case isn't finished, the HANFA will have to bring in a new word and say what he thinks about the case. Also, as far as this second case is concerned, the agency has been re-determined, not prejudicing, of course, any final decision. This case is still being resolved and has not been resolved by today, therefore there can be no reason why the Minister of Finance is proposing to the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to accept the HANFA report, because if both the High Administrative Court and the Supreme Court have returned the case to the re-trial of HANFA, then it is not settled. Also, the reason for not accepting the report, the minister consciously does not state who the subjects were in the implementation of the consolidation, because if these entities were included in the stock exchange, then we must again visit both ministers and the Government on a law that must be equal for all, regardless of whether a society would consolidate and whether a society is non-consolidated, whether it is private or state-owned. The law must be clear to all and it must be applied. Therefore, the HANFA does not stop trading until the legal conditions are met, not when someone wants to and when they think someone should. And you saw, you had the opportunity to see in very wrinkling objects that HANFA had certainly set up and suspended the trading of shares and INAs and some other companies. So that's where HANFA never played a game with a fig in her pocket. Neither can anyone say that HANFA had to suspend stock trading just because someone was doing some consolidation. And if that were the case, and that's not exactly how it can be done, you remember that the government went with an amendment to the law on the takeover of companies primarily because of one case, but after the pucks from Brussels, that law on the takeover of companies has been withdrawn from the procedure and has never come to this Assembly, but the problem wants to be solved elsewhere. Also, the minister and the government imagine what the capital market should look like, which is the best example of the Ingra case and Đura Djakovica. So, to take over the Ingra by Djura Djakovic, whether it was a political order or not, but the administration, it was the obligation of Đura Djakovic's administration to publish a voluntary offer to take over the Ingra, but later on, because of the fear of the administration of criminal application and for the loss of business, they did not submit. The question is, why? Was the political drive and order stronger than the law? Apparently, the head of the administration thought it was smarter to stick to the law than to learn some other things and didn't do what he did. And finally, according to the applicable law on the takeover of the Ingra administration, it gives its opinion in this offer and sees the devil of the HANFA, HANFA orders her to change her opinion which is outrageous and it is a document that exists. So the Ingra administration gave its opinion and HANFA ordered that, but it was not in 2011 but in 2012 to change its opinion. Of course, the stock of Ingra and Djura Djakovic were on the stock market all the time, so this is just one manipulation that HANFA did something or didn't do it. But another case is a bit like a play, and the main character is our former colleague, the current management president of Podravka. So, he said at a conference in the Zagreb Stock Exchange in Rovinj, come on, I'll try to interpret it, but I think I can quote it to you, that it brings good news from the company and that people save some money for Podravka shares. And comedy, of course, could have started. At that moment, a member of the board of directors whose wife is the head of the Zagreb Stock Exchange. A little further sits a member of the Supervisory Board of one of the largest individual shareholders, and behind them sits the entire Management Council of HANFA. And then your wife asks her husband what your board president is talking about. He, of course, has to answer in writing that he has no idea what he's talking about and he doesn't know what he's talking about. And then no longer the HANFA sitting in the second row could refrain from it, so that comedy gets a sequel, that this HANFA asks the Podravka administration to explain what the president of the administration meant when he said that people kept their penises. And then finally, the Podravka administration responds that she has no idea what the President of the Administration thought and that they don't know about any trading of Podravka shares. But look, this whole play, this whole comedy has led to the growth of Podravka shares of 7.5%. Now I'm very interested in when we're next year I hope sooner than now we're discussing the HANFA report whether these two cases will be in the report and how the HANFA will show them. Was HANFA supposed to react, and I think that if someone tells stories like this that they're going to do something, then the only goal happens, and the only reason it is that the shares have increased 7.5%. I say since the new head man of HANFA is here, I am very interested in what any of these two cases will be and how will explain the INGRA's order to change his mind about this INGRA and Đura Djakovic transactions. My colleagues and colleagues, I felt the need to say this as formerly Head of the Ministry of Finance, today as I spoke earlier on about the Commission for Public Procurement, so I will say that HANFA is one of the Agency for the Protection of Competition one of the key regulatory agencies and that such without argument and that there is any reason not to accept the HANFA Report from the Croatian Democratic Community Club would support it. So unargumented to say that the report of a regulatory agency is not accepted is a terrible bad message to the entire financial world. I repeat, HANFA regulates and controls the entire non-banking financial sector and is also very concerned that all transactions on the Zagreb Stock Exchange are in line with the law. It should also react to any manipulation, to lower or increase the price of securities on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Secondly, I would like to say that several major transactions have been carried out in Croatia, and unfortunately I doubt that such large transactions will occur on the Zagreb Stock Exchange soon, starting with Pliva, via INA, HT, and some private companies have issued their securities. None of these transactions, and some transactions, above all, I think of INA, were conducted in parallel on the Zagreb and London Stock Exchange. There were no objections. So, if the people of HANFA were able to do this job properly and parallel to the work that took place on the London Stock Exchange, then I don't think there's any reason for them to end their term of office when the new government with full law can propose a new administration to just give them a slap for all the good they've done, because this has nothing to do with the president of HANFA's administration. This applies to every employee in HANFA. Most of these employees are now staying and working with the new management president. So if these people haven't done their job well, colleagues and colleagues, then how are they going to work this year? It's an unnecessary political slap. I asked Mr Gjurkovic, chairman of the Finance Committee, to warn colleagues from the ruling coalition of the seriousness of such a solution. Obviously, however, that was not the case. I have cited two cases from 2012 and I consider no matter what, not getting into some things, administrative disputes no one has 100% solved cases, no one is in the management of the perpetum of the mobile, so neither is HANFA. Also, the state's attorney had his report here, no 100 percent of the cases solved. I repeat, if you already wanted not to adopt this report then you had to find arguments according to one modern practice as it is in the world, and not on one like this I'm not going to use the hard word but you can think of what I'm going to say, what I mean, a way to send a very bad message to the entire financial world and to the complete investors potential in the Republic of Croatia. It's waiting in Croatia. If politics doesn't like it, we'll decide how politics works. It's something that HANFA wasn't raised. It is something that HANFA has never worked, and at least in my mandate and the mandate of counterpart Dalic has not interfered with the work of HANFA because we simply believe that their work should be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19254	Thank you. The next one is on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19255	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Management Council of HANFA, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with my colleague Shuker just before HANFA is an important agency, indeed one of the key agencies in view of its importance, etc. And that it deserves attention to discuss her report, to discuss her work seriously here in the Parliament because only here can we talk about. I believe that we are often in this Assembly around many reports not only of HANFA but of other agencies, institutions, etc. All who are obliged to submit their report on the work of the Assembly often, in general, supported their report. It is very rare that a report, some institutions, agencies, or the like is not supported. And then it's only when we're on that path so it doesn't happen then it becomes a problem. I really don't think that's the case. So why would it be a problem, because otherwise what happens, we often get here no matter who's in the opposition, who's in power, we make certain remarks on the different bodies that report to us here and end up in such a way that it's always spent. It turns out like that folk saying, "Dogs bark caravans pass." So, you talk to the Parliament whatever you want, you say yours, the report is formally adopted, so it's okay, so the year after that, and that's how it happens. Therefore, I do not see in principle any reason, although I think that more times should be promoted more seriously for the reports, and this failure should not be something that is strange. If there's something we're not happy with, that's what we should say. So it's not a problem and it's not a bad thing, if you don't adopt something, it's a problem if the damage happens and you tolerate it, and you don't notice and accept it. HANFA is an independent regulator, however, but it still submits its report to this Assembly. So independent in its work is of course, but this does not mean that independence goes from there that no one can control or tell what is going on there and what is going on, above Pope there is always Pop, and even here. So, we can say it in other words, but what we think of it all. Ungrateful work to control the controller, but good and that's normal. There were also words that, in the government's view, it is called on, the government is calling for a ruling from the High Administrative Court in 2009, to which counterpart Shuker rightly said it was in 2009. But if it's 2007, then it's even worse, I think it's 2009, but it is, and now we're discussing the 2011 report exactly. On the side already when fellow Shuker appears, he is a good part of his debate now on behalf of the club talks about the 2012 events, so if we're talking about 2011 then let's be principled, then consistent, so let's not even talk about 2012 if we can't talk about the previous, but good. Now, I'm asking the next question, we have such a case so we can always discuss the previous year and now in 2012, we're discussing 2011, we didn't, so we could never discuss it, why? Because if something happens, for example. In 2009, the court ruled a year or two later, but you can't discuss it anymore because it's not, it doesn't apply to the previous year. This means that it is only necessary to wait for the time to pass, that the court discusses your case later, even if the ruling is negatively no longer to be touched because the year has passed when it has been analysed. I don't think that's right. So here we are talking about the work of HANFA precisely for 2011, but of course we can turn to the previous event, because at the verdict of the High Administrative Court they couldn't even react before because it wasn't, because it wasn't, it was only created now. Otherwise, around HANFA, so also in the government's opinion, there were also a number of other examples where disputes are being conducted. Personally, I think that HANFA has often caused too much public attention because of its own, let me say decisions that have often been questioned. We'll see final judgments, whether it's okay or not. I don't think that's good. HAHFA is, therefore, the controller, the regulator, the one who oversees it would therefore, we should view it as a sports dictionary as a judge at the game. So, who's a good judge at the game? One who so decides to hold the game by the rules without being noticed. He who puts himself first and who is often noticed, and who is discussed after the game as a judge, and not what happened at the game, is not a good judge. It's not good, so to discuss how someone was making their own solutions too much, but this one, and to put himself first, as is the case with HANFA. So it's my impression that often the HANFA caused too much attention, with first or not, we'll finally see it. But usually when someone knows they're wrong, that they're wrong, or that there's very little chance they're going to fight and keep quiet and don't complain, but whoever's convinced that he's right often complains, and it's very insulting and causing a situation like this to happen to us. One more thing, the HANFA had an obligation under the law to have its own advice, it was long gone, last year it had only one session, even one session. I don't know why that is, why he's been gone for a long time, and I see, and last year, just one session, I didn't go into details, we don't see what it was about, probably building the last one. So we see from the report that I think is too statisticalally numbered, and there are few qualitative assessments of what's going on, about what they've been doing, and there's too many statistics there, so there's had to be far more grades, there's no, there's no statistics, but you don't see from statistics, and you don't really see the state of what's going on. So, I'm not against it that, if we say no to HANFA now, I don't need to do my job so that it doesn't cause any conflict, disagreements, or disputes, or even litigation, it's not, but I'm for HANFA to work even more and even better, to be indisputable in its business, to have some kind of plan and not to go into control from today to tomorrow, like this, so to be impartial and, of course, to be all by law and based on the law. If he who is above it is an instance which interprets the law and which according to the legal procedure is different. So, then, obviously it wasn't according to the law. So other than these things that are controversial and which are in the court proceedings, I think that HANFA has generally caused too much attention to itself because of its interpretations, obviously those who are in the process of disputed decisions. I don't think that's good, but in this report besides the rest, it takes a lot more qualitative evaluations, not just statistics on how much surveillance there was, etc. But what is it, what is the assessment of what they did? Given what I've been talking about, the SDP government's opinion won't support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19256	Thank you. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I said, and I will repeat, I don't doubt the right of the ruling not to accept the report at all. Just on behalf of the HDZ Club, I prayed that this report had some meaning. A colleague of Jelusic, HANFA carried out as regards the hotel Liburnia in control, the decision of the Administrative Court is not from 2011 but from 2012. It is very interesting that neither the Supreme Court nor the Administrative Court has actually refused to accept any dispute against HANFA. And it is very interesting that these two disputes have been accepted by the fact that this case of Liburnia has been returned to HANFA for re-coordination. So, if everything was clean then the Supreme Court would bring some kind of a river and say something, it wouldn't bring back HANFA to tell HANFA again what it needs to do. And you know why? Because we have a law on the takeover of companies. And these two disputes were created as disputes because certain things were not made in time based on government decisions. And colleague Jelusic, this problem of Liburnia has tried to correct itself, made an amendment to the Law on the takeover of companies. And no one here in the assembly is in the interest of cutting off the city of Opatija for the shares of Lebanon, so we understand each other. So there wouldn't be any political bickering. But we can't go against the law. Let's find a legal solution if the government has already given this to Opatija 25% of the shares, if it can't be done because of this law let's find a legal solution. Because I say, this law was passed and practically released in the process, and then from Brussels it came that such a law simply cannot go because it is contrary to EU directives. So, I'm talking about it. No intention of defending anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19258	Thanks, pal. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19259	Just one more sentence, please, Mr. Vice President. Warning that colleagues from HANFA are not in the same situation tomorrow. So, only by wanting to make their job easier. Because I know how both regulatory and inspection services are involved in various blows, with no intention of calling anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19260	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Next on behalf of the HNS club, and we have an answer to the replica. Comrade Ivo Jelusic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19261	Thank you. I am here reading that the High Administrative Court has annulled the agency's decision since 4 June 2009, but, well, let's not get into it in 2009, 2007. And it is true that the decision of the Court of Justice of 2012. But I repeat that and say whether if we stick to the fact that we couldn't argue in the year that it was because there wasn't a verdict then the verdict came later. This means that we can never discuss it because it does not apply to 2011. Will we be able to discuss 2011 next year? No, we won't, they'll say that debate will take place in 2012. That's what I'm talking about. So let's not be formalists when the verdict was made, when it was. We are discussing the functioning of HANFA generally backwards. The same HANFA administration was also in 2009 and 2011 and 2010. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19262	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Governing Council, colleagues and colleagues. There's been a lot of debate about HANFA, I hope not only in the council benches because we just opened it today except for the board. I, on behalf of the HNS Club, must immediately say that we will support this proposal from the government so as not to support the report. The government of course has its right and duty to give an opinion on the reports and that is its legal right and let us absolutely not discuss why it says yes or no, we have another report which is not approved by the Government in a positive way. What I would like to stress on behalf of the HNS Club, which is about my predecessors in their discussions, is only obviously not the same way to interpret them. Because that's basically the situation where politics has no place in regulatory agencies, right? So, the Croatian Parliament has the right to political debate on the regulatory agency, its work and its report very politically. However, what was not to be expected, and yet we must be aware, regardless of the government's interpretation, which is why it does not support the HNS report, we believe that both what is crucial and bad has been politicized needlessly. She got herself into the comments of the additional and unnecessary, and then all of this together basically caused what my colleague Schuker was saying to the financial world. Is that, that's the hardest thing, the worst thing that can happen is that a regulatory agency that needs to be promoted and safeguard the stability of the financial system we're talking about is the non-banking system gets involved in comments, discussions, touches a part of the policy and then discuss the trust of the financial world, not banking, investment in the capital market of securities in the Republic of Croatia then we come into a very, very dangerous zone from which it's difficult to come out. And in order to come out of this, we have changed the law, which is why it is, in another way, drawn up and set up the administration, i.e. the Administrative Council and the Director to send a clear message and of course what we expect from the current headship of the HANFA to just stick to the law, to stick to the rules and to do that job that is crucial, and not only to regulate and promote the capital market. Because we remember that the Zagreb Stock Exchange index has crossed 4000 points. It ended in 1740, 17% less than in 2010 etc. etc. Market capitalisation of shares at annual level has been reduced by 7.3%. Here is also the report that says that in 2008 there were 31 investment companies. 31.12., 31.12.2011. we have 13 investment companies. Therefore, this non-acceptation message is not a message that 140 HANFA employees have not done their job. She's not a message that they don't know how to do their job at least as far as the HNS club is concerned. This is just one message that it's time for the regulatory agency to work in a completely different way, that it treats the participants in the capital market completely differently and that in this way it can't go through. So what the government is proposing is its right, we support it, but we also further stress that we ask HANFA to absolutely not go into politicisation and debate only to do its job because then we believe that the capital market in Croatia will also contribute to Croatia not only because of Croatia's entry into the European Union but because of the confidence in investment is correct, quality and will contribute to the development of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19264	Thank you, too. This is what we've concluded with the reported. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to ask the President of the Administrative Council of Pierre Matek for a brief address. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19265	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm taking the opportunity to supplement this debate with some information that I think will be useful to everyone. First of all, I would like to say that cases relating to the capital market, especially those related to the takeover of stock companies, market manipulation and the use of privileged information, are always of great interest to the public and the media. However, these are cases that are very complex, and HANFA solved and solved them. I personally believe that some hasty media advances can do more harm than good to solve such cases. The New Administrative Council in HANFA recognized a certain space for progress. Our goal is to achieve even more standards of expertise and independence than it was in the past. As for cases that have raised certain media dust, I would just like to report that the High Administrative Court has reached a verdict on the basis of which the HANFA suspended the proceedings in the Liburnia Riviera hotel case. So, the High Administrative Court ruled that HANFA had misread the facts in the process and that this was indeed about the original acquisition of shares. In view of such a judgment, there was no longer any reason to carry out the procedure. In the case of Belja, the case has been returned to decision-making because of formal failures and the case is now, the proceedings are ongoing and the court's orders are being fulfilled in the sense that some additional evidence is being examined and witnesses are being questioned. In the INGRA case that counsel Shuker mentioned, I would like to say that HANFA has explained all of her opinions in detail and that they have been published on the HANFA website. So this isn't where HANFA ordered anyone to change their mind in terms of turning a negative opinion into a positive, but just to supplement it or to exclude from it some simply incorrect facts of technical nature. The last case is the Podravka case. I just want to make it right, so just to point out the facts. The Zagreb Stock Exchange is the one that asked the Podravka Administration for the evidence, not the HANFA, and since the process is under way, I cannot comment on it further at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19266	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19267	Well, thank you very much. I'm glad that the new head of the HANFA said when certain things the government referred to as reasons for not accepting the executive board and I don't want to get into your decisions at all, so we understand each other. You're an independent regulator, decisions are made, and I respect that. However, as far as Podravka is concerned, if I said you were looking and you didn't ask, then I think you should ask, given that the result of this story about Rovinj was an increase in stock value of 7 and a half percent and you as a regulatory body had to react. If someone is spreading false information, the result is an increase in the price on the market. You had to react, but I apologize if I said you were looking and you weren't looking. I said the wife asked her husband, and then later I said that HANFA asked the Podravka administration for it because I thought you should have done it. That's my opinion by watching the law. But I'm saying I'm glad you said that and not getting into this is your right to make you do... etc. The wrong and we respect that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this all happened in 2012, and this is cited as a reason for not giving a positive opinion on the HANFA report from last year, which is second. And the second thing, as far as INGRA is concerned, INGRA has given its opinion on the offer and there has been an intervention from HANFA to change that view. So was it... from someone else I don't know. I'm waiting for the 2012 report, then I'll comment. I wouldn't get into it, I just mentioned the trace of these events in 2012 that were conditioned to get a positive opinion for 2011. And as for you, in me, at the HDZ Club, you will always have support for independent work and for keeping at least that level of discipline on the financial market as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19268	Thank you. We don't have a reply to the replica. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19269	The annual report of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency for 2011. a year." I'm asking you, by raising your hand, to make a statement as to who the proposed conclusion is. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 81 votes in favour, 30 against and 13 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19270	We move to - Annual Business Report of the Financial Agency for 2011 The report is submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency on the basis of Article 21. The Financial Agency Act. You've received the material into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. I welcome the president of the board of directors of Angel Bunnet. You said that in the end? All right. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the FINA Administration. Unfortunately, I'm going to do this debate on behalf of the HDZ Club and explain this report and the club's attitude in exactly the same way as it was with the HANFA. So the government gave a negative opinion with a very strange explanation. Veli, however, points out that the government of the Republic of Croatia has failed to implement a number of projects that FINA was to implement in 2011. First of all, a project to establish a register of employees in the public sector whose goal was to pool data on all public sector employees and centralize payments... /Buka in the hall, phone ringing./... Give him a squeeze, please. That's what someone's doing on purpose to stop me. That's for real. So, data on all public sector employees, I apologize primarily to the Vice-President and to your colleagues and colleagues for not silenced him alone, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia has not fulfilled its purpose because the register does not allow the control of these costs. So, let's just stick to it. It is a project that has been done for many years with a unique goal of finally being seen in Croatia for those who receive salaries from the state budget on which they are based and with which additions these salaries are as much as they are. To simply show in one place how it is for civil servants, how it is for public services. And it's a project that we've been working on for several years. However, I will tell you here colleagues and colleagues of FINA's people and employees that project could not have been completed if they had not received all the data from the resolution ministries. And they don't have that data. So what's their fault there is another pair of shoes. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that it has not even revived the HItro.hr project. And when I remember just how much laughter there was here on this side about this HItro.hr project and now you see the HItro.hr project is the main reason why the government, these people who laughed so much at this project, did not give a positive opinion on the work of FINA in the previous year. But that's it, and I don't think this is enough reasons for one institution, and now I'm going to say a little bit about history and what happened with that FINA and how it even came to be the financial result it was last year. So, FINA, ZAP or as it has already been called over the past years SDK once, in my opinion, I was saying that and then as a parliamentary representative of the opposition, with a hasty decision to leave payment to commercial banks was left without a big cake, and the state was left without one very effective instrument of forced payment. And I think all those who have had any contact with finance and the economy will agree. And by transferring the collection and control of the collection of pension and health contributions to the Tax Administration, by setting up REGOS, the government has made some hybrid funding models from financing records in the REGOS, that some other projects finance and that FINA as such should survive, however definitely FINA at that time with its 5 and a few thousand employees was far away, far too much compared to what the money was. And if it hadn't been for work and if it hadn't been for the state treasury, a series of other projects, the FINA would have simply disappeared with all its potentials. However, from time to time, a programme to address the problem of extra employees began, some new projects were launched, and FINA slowly came into position two, three years ago to agree with the union on how and how to solve a thousand and more employees. It cost a hundred and another million kuna and FINA is therefore, along with new projects that the government has started working with FINA and eventually some reports that have often served the opposition to attack the ruling and the indifference, the number of blocked companies, etc. And also this year, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the finance minister, the head of the IRS and some other government officials are very often using and pointing out to the FINA as something that has served them to design certain projects and to bring these projects together, that they can be implemented etc. And look at that fine like, like this, it could have been better, it could have been worse ending up last year with 60 million kunas getting. With all the troubles she's had in recent years and I say this year is one of the key segments on which the government continues some of its projects, tax presses, blockades, etc. And instead of sending a message, how many FINA now have 3,000 and some other employees, people you've been doing well, we're going to be doing more new projects. The government is sending a message. You haven't been doing a good job. We're not gonna give you a positive opinion, but you're still gonna have to do all these jobs. Now, colleagues and colleagues imagine that the analogy of unfavourable opinions brings together Croatian citizens and starts with the same analogy without argument calling individual members of the government and telling them, is that you said you'd do it and you didn't do it, let's get out of the government, what would that look like? But if the Government is that meter or archaic as our people say, the benefits for certain companies must be the right of Croatian citizens and political insinuators to tell the government on the same principle. And colleagues and colleagues that I don't owe more, as I said about HANFA and FINA, the government, if it's already looking for a reason for a shift management, could have found, at least try to explain it in a different way and I think these two arguments are embarrassing, not to give financial reports to two very important institutions. I repeat, I have over 3,000 employees, and it turns a lot of money a year. It has extraordinary potential for other projects that should be working together with the Ministry of Finance, and I think that instead of stimulating the government's message of relatively low-paid people in FINA to work even better, it has hit their slap and says you work as hard as you want, but in the end we will judge you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19272	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of SDP representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19273	Dear Vice President, the president of the board of directors of FINA, colleagues and colleagues, we have remained only the most durable. I will remind you that at the beginning of this year, more precisely in January, we discussed the report on FINA's business in 2010 and that a lot of remarks were made on the account of the report. Assessing missing, clubs and MPs individually sought a number of content supplements, but also removing some purely technical failures. Meanwhile, FINA has received a new administration, but the 2011 report, which we are discussing today, has been made according to the old unaltered sprawl, which is somewhat understandable, namely the new administration will give its first report only for 2012, but this means that most of the remarks that were related to the 2010 report will most likely be repeated today. So, for starters, I have to say that the report is visually unattractive, patterns given what technical possibilities FINA has, should look far better. Reports of similar institutions such as CNB or HABOR are examples of such good looks of business reports. But looks aren't the most important. As far as the content is concerned, too much space has been given to vision, mission and organisational structure, so some static data that are repeated from the report in the report, and too little evaluations of the development perspectives, and problems and possible solutions to the problem. And there are problems, there are also unrealised projects that the government had great expectations of, there are objections to real estate management and renting space, and some contractual relations are also the subject, according to the report's investigative actions by the competent state authorities. And all of these are the reasons why the government's 2011 FINA business report assessed negatively, and the SDP club agrees with the government's view. I will return briefly to the 2010 report because it was a kind of exception, as it received a positive opinion both of the positions and of the opposition at the time. Namely, the report for the year before 2010 did not receive support from the SDP club, then the opposition was mainly due to the delay in restructuring, which resulted in FINA's operations being negative. The implementation of the 2009-2012 transition strategy eliminated the causes of such a negative business, the multi-annual trend of negative financial outcome was interrupted and conditions for stable and positive business were ensured. This was achieved by providing an surplus of nearly 1400 employees in 2010, leading to a high one-time severance cost, but at the same time total expenditure was reduced by 26%, so that the business year 2010 ended with a positive and financial result. Therefore, profits were achieved after taxation of more than 77 million kuna. Stable business continued in 2011 and again achieved positive financial results, although 22% lower than the profits achieved in 2010. The decrease in earnings occurred primarily due to the reduction in income from the underlying FINA activity, which is the provision of payment services. Since the entry into force of the new Law on Payments in early 2011. FINA can no longer independently provide payment services so that it was necessary to execute... with all the business banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, FINA became... the partner of the banks and thus the further provision of payment services in accordance with the amended legal conditions has been ensured, and the proceeds of the FINA from that title are further reduced, as the FINA is forced to reduce its payment transactions fees for banks while at the same time banks can afford the same level of compensation, or even their increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear from the above that the FINAs need further market adjustment, the suppression of old jobs to new ones, and these are the challenges to be met by both the new administration and the new FINA Strategy, whose adoption is currently scheduled for the current 2012 year. And since we are practically in the last months of the current year, it would be very good to hear how far that strategy has come. It is also clear that the State as the owner of the FINA must in all of this, through its representatives in the Supervisory Board, unequivocally show what its interest is and what its expectations are of this agency. So far, according to the government's negative view, these expectations have not been met for several reasons. Therefore, some projects of state interest such as the single register of employees in the public sector or the HItro-HR project are not realised which in our opinion does not give the expected effects. However, this is not the main reason for the government's negative opinion, as counterpart Shuker said. The government is also not satisfied with the real estate management system which is numerous in FINA and which are extremely valuable. From 31.12.2011. the current value of these properties was around 700 million kuna and that is why it would be good to hear whether there are still extra squares of business space in the system which is not in the function of creating profits but is the opposite source of high fixed costs that burden fina's business. Also, some of the former administration’s business decisions are questionable. For example, bad bills in previous years' securities, so 2006 and 2007. So it failed to save 23 million kunas from the Credo Bank at the moment when, due to the illegality of the business, the CNB seized the Kredo Bank's work permit. These huge funds were practically trapped in bankruptcy and their fate was uncertain, so we heard on the Committee on Finance and Budget. On the other hand, there are positive shifts. Significant progress has also been made in the activities of forced collection where there were initially many problems and great dissatisfaction among the perpetrators, above all due to the legal sub-regulation of this area. The corresponding amendments and amendments to the Regulation allow for simpler and easier protection of funds excluded from the application. In 2011 alone, the FINA’s bank order opened over 127000 special accounts for the payment of funds excluded from the operation. Also in 2011. FINA has well responded to the amendment of the law, allowing voluntary members to step down from the second pension pillar and transfer their funds to the first pillar, and to retire only after retirement insurance from the title of generation solidarity. Keep going. A hundred FINA experts have been trained to develop business plans, elaborates and projects to apply to the European Union funds. A very important role of FINA is also given under the Financial Business Act and the pre-departure settlement that came into force just the beginning of this month. In fact, FINA will implement the pre-demand settlement procedure and submit a proposal for the opening of bankruptcy. Electronic business, so-called "Perspective" is also a matter of perspective. e-services based on digital certificates technology. And FINA in them is the Croatian leader unmistakably. However, it should be well prepared to maintain this leading market position even after Croatia's entry into the European Union because competition will be extremely strong. It is certain that FINA has a perspective for a number of other jobs mentioned. For what? Well, due to the widespreadness of the business network and accessibility practically in every corner of the country, which is a reference to national coverage. The only other Croatian post office has such a wide network of business units. Further, for the sake of great knowledge, I would also like to say the traditional client trust, because of the professionalism in the performance of the job, because of the safety conditions. However, when we talk about the benefits of FINA, we must not forget its weaknesses and threats either. The greatest weakness of FINA that could prove to be a significant limiting factor in further progress is the structure of employees. In fact, 2/3 of the employees are over 40 years old with a third older than 50 years old. Also, the unfavourable fact is that 2/3 of the employees have a medium capacity, i.e. one of the qualifications. Therefore, further progress by FINA requires its personnel rejuvenation and professional teaming. The problem, too, is that a good part of the business network, so business units are literally devastated both human and material. At the centre in Zagreb, it was employed with the fact that I have to point out that FINA was no exception to the employment of the like, so now only a little less than 60% of the total number of employees in the FINA system are employed in Zagreb, while 40% are in branches, businesses, outposts and secluded counters. In contrast to the local organisational unit headquarters, there was also a massive supply of extra employees, so today, the branch office employs mostly medium-sized staff who performs secondary and lower complex tasks that unfortunately cannot be earned. So, there is a lot of work to be done, and there is little and probably a greater number of branches outside Zagreb do not operate positively. Unfortunately, there's no record of that in this report, so we can only guess. So it would be very good if we had data in the next report on the efficiency of business by sectors, organisational parts and finally by types of business. Like I said, local business spaces are pretty devastated. It is clear that due to the poor situation of previous years, it was not possible to invest in space equipment, but now, according to the achieved gain, the market position of FINA was more favourable and certain changes would be welcome in this regard. The problem is both outdated and insufficient equipment by organisational units. Employees have virtually nothing to work with, and old and insecure equipment has a certain negative impact on the quality of the work done. The security conditions of previous years have been the advantage of FINA lately become its weakness, as I would say her soft stomach. Four armed robberies and three burglaries took place in 2011. Once upon a time, I must say, there was no insurance and there was no robbery. There's a lot of money being spent on insurance today, and the robberies are getting more and more frequent. These are all well-intentioned remarks. I believe that they will be accepted, and I also believe that there is a further and financial consolidation in front of FINA, as well as a good market perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19274	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19275	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club will begin with a sentence with which I concluded on behalf of the club the 2010 Report which was in January as my colleague said. If the reporting method is not corrected and a basic financial business analyst is not introduced on the 2011 HANFA report, the Croatian People's Party Club will not support the report. So, regardless of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for which we did not know that it would not support it, we have clearly defined ourselves in one technical sense reporting that it is not appropriate for such reports to be delivered in this House of Higher Education. So this report is a little bit more correct than 2010 because 2010 was more of a special promotional material, perhaps for the market, rather than for the Croatian Parliament. However, we still have to point out that we have no other than quite a percentage, but very incomparable and difficult to analyse in view of the complexity of FINA's work itself and all the jobs that have no table view, examples of employees with average regular income per employee, there are no indicators of business by sectors, business centres, analysts within the income and expenditure sector to make it clear which sectors, where they work, where they are stagnated, where it is more efficient, less etc. A system has been established to monitor key indicators of the success of the comparative comparison of businesses, but of course we have no reports of what, how, where, how does it work, what one financial, FINA should essentially have and may have and have to deliver to the Croatian Assembly. And what we don't have at the time, and we don't have right now are comparative property management data that was spoken of and said, and we know that property is one of the great segments managed by FINA. So one segment of the report is technically, the other is essentially a lot of government said about it. My colleague Jelish, too, so there's no need for me to repeat it all together now and take the time. On that point, we're absolutely in agreement. But the same message to all who deliver their reports to the Croatian Parliament, that other than the truly successful business, rationality and efficiency, efficiency which is crucial and that we absolutely ask all state companies to do this is also important, and that is how these reports are delivered to the Croatian Parliament. They must be as appropriate not only for FINA but for all public or state-owned companies. For the passage, or passage of the report, must not only be about success but also respect for what is done, respect for this Croatian Parliament. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, we're not gonna back this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19276	Thank you, too. I'd like to pray on behalf of the motion president of the board of directors of Angel Bunetta. Here you go, Mrs. Bunnet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19277	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. I just need to give you an update, or an answer to your questions. I thank you for your well-intentioned advice on the 2012 report to make it more complete. I realized and really well-intentioned for a financial agency the report should be let's say complete and some of these indicators of financial economic business how to say similar. I won't apologize, it's what it is and we'll try to fix it in the future. I'd just like to say about HITRO-HR. HITRO-HR, if you remember well, even received some awards as a project, worked very well and it took place in September 2010. In particular, it was a regulation, a way of enrolling in the court register, which puts off the guidance on the electronic establishment of the company so that there were let's say administrative obstacles so that this job could be further done. One regulation has been encollected with another regulation. As for the answer to the question of what was taken to manage FINA's real estate by providing people with 1400 employees left our network in 2010. Of course it felt and if it had come to a lot I would have said free space, it was able to come and reach agreement with the paying agency in agriculture, which is across Croatia in our offices for my business needs rented 5 thousand square meters and these days they move in to say space. The Supervisory Board has also asked us for an analysis of the real estate management, so we've prepared it here and we'll try to do it here to say as much as we can, of course. You asked the 2009-2012 transition strategy at the end. She intended me to say to stabilize the business because FINA was doing business with a negative financial result. As far as she was concerned, she said I would achieve my goal and is now working on a strategy for the next period of 2013-2017 which is to say in the final phase. And it will also be presented to the Supervisory Board, and of course through the 2012 Report, and this esteemed House will hear and see how and what we plan on moving forward because we have to position ourselves as best as possible before Croatia's entry into the EU because there are lobbyists now who I would tell us under quotes "attack" to take away certain jobs. We too must prepare very well in this. As far as CREDO Bank is concerned, of course we're all familiar with that case. It is true that, and in addition to that in the 2011 Financial Report, 25% of this amount of money has been reserved because of the uncertainty that will happen, however, as far as I am now aware, the complete process is going towards bankruptcy, is being guided by the Credit Institutions Act. And then it could be for FINA I'd say a lot more expensive than to go according to that ordinary bankruptcy bill because they could almost charge everything there. But now it's a matter of speculation, it wouldn't happen until we see what happens. You also talked about FINA weaknesses, the structure of employees + age. Of course, that's a big problem for us. The house is 51 years old on average. In the care program, people went waved from the net, waving a tall professional cook, and FINA then ran out of extremely strong staff. And that's our problem with which we're trying to bypass it now in some way by further education of existing people. There's a lot of people who are willing to study and study, and of course we're going to have to get younger. Here and now there is an end to the tender for 5 people who will work and deal with the central account of salaries and for 7 specialists in the field of information. So, we'll try, of course, how much the financial situation allows us to do all that. Of course we have outdated equipment, of course we have problems, but like every house over time, we're going to say invest according to the priorities that have already been drawn and done. Here in these four months we've recorded what we need and a proposal of these jobs that the state has now assigned us and we've invested some 56 million kunas in equipment that's out of date. Security conditions, we have problems here, I agree, but they're getting rid of each other. We're not worse than others, I'd say so. Some things will be improved and before we enter the EU, we will start and say certification of the adaptation of the information system to the 27 thousand standard. So we're aware of the problems, we're aware of the competition, and we're aware of everyone to say our shortcomings, but we'll try to solve them maximum. This will also be seen through our 2012 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19278	Thank you, too. I thank Mrs. Bunetta. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19279	The annual report on the financial agency's 2011 business, the debate on the report, has been concluded. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on the business of the Financial Agency for 2011. a year." By raising our hands, I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, with 82 votes in favour, 32 against and 10 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19280	We move to - Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2011 The Annual Report was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency on the basis of Article 30. The law on the protection of competition. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. I welcome Mrs. Olga Spevec with an associate, President of the Competition Protection Council. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, do you want Mrs. Spevec? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19281	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. I can see you're tired, and I have to admit a little bit so I'll try to be as short as possible, but I won't miss the chance to even orally not introduce you to the Agency's work report because it's my obligation to the agency and to the public that this report, at least in some segments, is of interest. Therefore, the Competition Protection Agency shall carry out the tasks defined by the Competition Protection Act, which relate to the control of the behaviour of entrepreneurs on the market when it comes to agreements between them, to determining the abuse of the ruling position, to the assessment of the concentration authorisation and to the giving of opinions on laws and other regulations. The least important part of our activities and one of the more difficult parts of this activity is the control of the state aid that we implement under the State aid Act. In addition, in the previous 5 years, since 2005, the Agency's activities have largely focused on negotiations with the EU and in Chapter 8. - Market competition, they haven't stopped since this chapter is still under surveillance. There was also cooperation with sectoral regulators, with the CNB which controls the behaviour of entrepreneurs, so the application of the Law on the Protection of Competition in the banking sector, so that is the sector that is excluded from the control of this agency, and there are our activities at international level that are becoming more and more significant as we get closer to EU membership. So, in the opening part of the report, we wanted to introduce you once again to what this agency is, how it is set up and what are the foundations of its action. Also, we wanted to show that last year there were 57 of us at the agency, this year that number was reduced to 50. The agency's budget amounted to slightly less than, slightly more than 16.8 million kuna, of which 13.3 million kuna was the budget of the Republic of Croatia, while 3.5 million kuna was related to 3 projects, i.e. 3 programmes from EU IPA projects. So our agency is an extremely small body, I would say one of the smallest agencies currently in the EU Member States. The most important activities in 2011 were, therefore, related to the completion of negotiations with the EU, and then to the completion of the legal and institutional framework for the implementation of the Competition Protection Act, which took effect in the last quarter of 2010. The end of the work on several extremely difficult cases in the field of state aid and the Law on the Protection of Competition, and there are, of course, activities relating to the promotion of competition mainly related to the giving of opinions, the applicable laws and regulations or those in the drafts, but also our activities relating to action in the framework, with entrepreneurs, with students, with young people, with citizens. When we talk about the activities of the agency relating to negotiations with the EU, one part of you certainly knows that the agency was actually involved in implementing the criteria for opening and closing negotiations when it comes to the iron and steel industry, when it comes to shipbuilding, especially when it comes to the adoption of the restructuring programme. In fact, the European Commission has not accepted these programmes until the agency has received an earlier positive opinion on them. The Agency was also obliged to draw up a list of the aid found to be granted by the European Commission and found its place in the accession contract itself. Also, this part of the Agency's work will last until 01.07.2013 because this list will be supplemented, so on one side the support providers, on the other agency which approves and supervisory of our approvals, means the control of our approvals is carried out by the European Commission. Also, the agency was part of the criteria for closing negotiations because our work was evaluated, our decisions delivered to Brussels, ex post of course when we had been made, we had no obligation as some other countries to make certain decisions, and we make these decisions to the previous opinion of the European Commission, but rather vice versa. And with the conclusion of the negotiations, our work on drawing up a series of regulations that we have described in the report, which relate to the application of the Competition Act. So last year, we prepared 9 regulations and the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted them at a relatively short interval of 7 to 8 months. And each of these regulations is actually a small law. The third significant part of our activities, as I mentioned, were complex jobs on specific subjects, and I would, of course, first and foremost highlight the restructuring programmes of the Croatian shipyards that the agency started, and this job began in 2006 when it gave an evaluation of the recovery programme, and then restructuring, so that it was now necessary to formally and complete those assessments and we did so, our solutions were adopted last autumn according to what we assessed. Therefore, the total restructuring costs of the aforementioned shipyards, namely those in difficulty amounted to €27.6 billion, of which €16.4 billion were related to the aid granted from 01.03.2006 to 30.06.2011 and there were 11.2 billion to be provided for its own restructuring contribution. As you know, this process is still ongoing. Of the specific subjects where very complex and deep legal and economic analysis was to be carried out except in the field of shipbuilding, there were also cases in the field of competition. I would point out 2, these are the items where the abuse of the ruling position in the market for the production and trade of tobacco products has been established, which have been achieved by applying unequal conditions for equal transactions and conditioned contract conclusion, contract consent and additional obligation parties, and also one misuse of a similar character has been identified in the area of trade in large jet fuel. The procedure establishing the existence of a prohibited horizontal agreement has also been completed, i.e. cartel members of an office material association. But in the report itself, you'll see all the more interesting things that we've stated, that you can see what we're doing and how we're doing at all. Fourthly, and I would say a very significant part of our business concerns the giving of opinions and remarks, both existing and existing drafts of new laws and regulations, which, of course, affect the conditions under which competition takes place in certain activities or as we say in some markets. Although the report describes in more detail where we all pointed out the need for changes in existing regulations in order to allow the market to function more effectively. On this occasion, I will point out only that it is an extremely worrying situation in the areas where the companies or various chambers control the entry into the markets of new entrepreneurs, i.e. new competitors agree prices and have the power to remove from the market those entrepreneurs who want to deal with lower prices and more flexible access to their, users of their products and services. Unfortunately, since it is mainly regulations that cannot be acted through procedures, the agency cannot prevent it but may indicate that such regulations are being amended by both the legislator and the legislator. We did so on many occasions in 2011, so we had an opinion and gave it to the competent ministry when it came to the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, the Law on Fire Protection, the Law on Forests, the draft Penal Code and a whole series of other provisions of the Law on Public Procurement and Sublaws where we found that regulations themselves do not provide competition as it should be, i.e. to prevent access to the market for competitors of existing entrepreneurs. In the past year, unfortunately, there was little activity in the concentration area because the economic crisis showed all its depth. Namely, in 2011, we approved or reported only a dozen concentrations while, for example, a year, several years before 2008. And in 2009, that number exceeded 20 reported concentrations. It actually says there is no change in the market in Croatia. In that part, therefore, takeovers and mergers, there is neither the interest of foreign companies to enter the Croatian market in such a way. As for other specific subjects in the area of State aid control, I must say that last year we received a whole series of programmes that needed to boost the growth of horizontal support, so we approved support for programmes in the field of environmental protection, employment, audio-visual activity, the development of a wide-ranging Inernet, individual industrial sectors and the like. When we speak here today, there were speeches on judicial control in 2011 the agency received 10 rulings from the Administrative Court on lawsuits against decisions by the agency, which in 9 cases confirmed solutions or conclusions of the agency while in one case the court annulled the Agency's resolutions and returned it to a re-demand. This is about the court thinking that we should formally call for oral debate, although the law does not oblige us to do so. But it is the court's view since it is complex cases that, regardless of the law, it does not require that the agency should conduct an oral debate. We held the debate and brought a new solution to which there was no later lawsuit against the agency's decision. So in all the jobs we do and the activities we carry out, the aim of our interventions is to establish a real and effective competition among entrepreneurs. We think that this is the only way to encourage them to be competitive and prepared to face the challenges of the global market. In fact, experience and practice of the most developed countries of today's world and those less developed show that without a developed market, without a competitive battle among entrepreneurs, there is neither investment nor export nor economic growth nor consequently an increased standard of citizens. So it's clear that the market has no alternative. But it is also clear that the market is not almighty and that it cannot solve all the problems of sustainable growth and social well-being. That's why there are agencies like ours and a series of other regulatory bodies. Our goal is to prevent market monopolization by large and strong domestic and foreign companies, local companies. We also aim to prevent agreements between competitors on market sharing, prices and the like. So, to prevent such a way, by such behaviour, such agreements actually derivating the market economy and returning to the cover of an agreed and inefficient economic structure. Likewise, whether or not someone liked it, it is our job to prevent the state from placing unwarrantedly certain entrepreneurs or industry in a more market-friendly position than those who do not receive these support. But happiness is such a small institution couldn't do it alone. So we're not all alone in this. There is a Croatian Parliament with its legislative role, the government that is the most responsible for proposing and implementing the law, sectoral regulators that are in charge of exhibits and expos sometimes control, the Croatian National Bank and others. So, all of us within our competences are responsible for creating such an environment that will provide all market competitors or market players regardless of their strength and size, regardless of whether it is domestic entrepreneurs or foreigners established here with the same conditions of business on the Croatian market, encourage the development of entrepreneurship and encourage new investments, of course to protect consumers and thus only achieve their tasks. It's a task that's not short-term, it's long-term. This agency has been operating for about 15 years, and it is difficult to expect that within such a short period of time we can compare ourselves with what agencies have achieved for 100 years, 50 years or somewhere between. So, what I would like to conclude with, I would like to say that the work of the agency alongside the Croatian state bodies, therefore, is also being controlled by this House of Higher House and by the full membership of the EU and by the competent EU institutions. Namely, our decisions are commented in expert journals, they are presented at various international seminars, and it is very important for us to have them in line with the regulations, but also with the relevant acquis of the EU and, of course, some kind of applicable practice. The evaluations we received in both monitoring reports, so they are positive, they highlight what is most important for the agency, which is that we are fully operational and functionally independent. These assessments also stress that we have established an appropriate system of control in the field of competition protection, which includes both concentrations and state support and this fight against monopolys, i.e. abuse of monopolys and cartels. The agency will, therefore, also in this time ahead of us in the European Union, and especially after that, act in a way that will create an incentive environment for all entrepreneurs and investors, and especially after we become part of the EU common market in which the agency as one of the rare Croatian institutions will actually become part of the EU regulatory framework. Since 1 July 2013, we are becoming a member of the European Network of Competition Protection Bodies and together with the European Commission and other national authorities, we are making joint decisions on matters in this area. So we will also apply national legislation when it comes to only some of the items related to the Croatian market. But as soon as it comes to something bigger and wider, then we become part of the European regulatory space and make decisions in the community with other bodies and, in particular, the European Commission. In addition to our regular preparation activities and professional training for the best possible inclusion in this demanding system, it will be one of the main features of our future work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19282	I thank the Presidents of the Council. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Any further explanation by the Government's representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs. At the beginning on behalf of Croatian Labourists – the parties of work will speak to the distinguished representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19283	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the president of the agency, few colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency in 2011. I can say that the report is written thoroughly on 168 pages. There is no objection to the text of the report itself because it covered all areas of the Agency's work. But what I would especially like to point out is that our economy has been in huge difficulties for a long time, we have no strategies to get out of the crisis and recovery, nor a vision of what it should look like to us tomorrow. In this case, but especially when the economy is in difficulty, it is very important that there is quality control to prevent any monopoly and enable all entities to operate under the same or approximately similar conditions. Under its legal powers, the Agency should take measures and ensure that the market for entrepreneurs, consumers and economies as a whole is better functioning. The question arises whether the agency has done enough to achieve its legal role or could play a more significant and better role in protecting competition. It's hard to assess because of the economic crisis we're in. The government of the Republic of Croatia said in this report that there were no objections to the agency's work. This same agency has not long, explicitly in just 4 days given its opinion on the ban on the use of PR services by state administrations and commercial companies in the predominantly owned Republic of Croatia. At such a rate, the agency has not brought any opinions so far. It would be good if she brought them more and more often. Not entering the agency's assessment and the agency's right to realise certain doubts that may occur when, in a case like this, this is happening in a relatively short time and it wasn't the practice of the agency. The Agency should be an operational, independent body and must remove any possibility of suspicion when it comes to its objectivity. The main area of competition policy control should be the dominant position, company merger control, liberalisation and state aid. The report shows that 419 cases were opened in 2011 in the field of competition and state aid. 390 cases have been resolved from this point of view, with 294 from the field of competition and 96 from the area of state aid. As regards the ruling situation, abuse by INA-MOL for the sale of jet fuel and Adris Group Rovinj has been established on the market of cigarette sales. 31 initiatives have been rejected, i.e. the requirement to establish a ruling position such as the Croatian Forest for Forest Management, ZAMP for the use of music works, Croatian telecoms on the internet broadband market and the transmission of TV programs. As regards the competition of entrepreneurs, the agency assessed the 10 concentrations allowed and 2 applications of the intention to implement the concentration were rejected. I have to look back at one of them, and it's about the Consum company that's covered by this same report. The assessment of the permitted concentration covered 40 entrepreneurs by the Agency. Furthermore, the Agency has also given 140 opinions on certain legal rules which can be assessed as significant activities in improving legislation. In the case of sectoral research in the material, it is said that the agency carried out three studies in the small and large, print market, milk market and dairy products. When it comes to trade, the data suggests that Konzum is the leading trader, the Plodines are in second place, the third place has Lidl, and the fourth is Kaufland. The report says that everyone has achieved an increase in income and that as much as 68% of revenues are made in large sales centres. It is very interesting that the agency stopped research on the milk market because of its rationality and economics. These days we are witnessing that unsatisfactory peasants spill milk because they don't have the bills to sell it to buyers for the cost of losing them. Perhaps they were in some way reasons to stop researching the agency. Furthermore, the report states that infringement courts have made 20 decisions and imposed fines of only 93 thousand 717 kuna in 3 cases. In 14 cases, they were declared incompetent, and in two, they reached a liberating verdict while one case went out of date. Based on this data, we can conclude that the agency was not doing well or something wrong in our judiciary. The government of the Republic of Croatia did not look back or comment on this fact. When it comes to state support of 96 items, 21 of them were approved, 18 were covered by the State support programme, 7 opinions on laws, 4 on shipbuilding, and the other 46 were small amounts of support. Of the 6 shipyards due to the aid received in public tenders, no bids were met because the investor was to develop a restructuring programme. Shipbuilding received total state support of 16.3 billion and, with its own contribution, their total restructuring costs amounted to 27.6 billion, which Mrs Spevec spoke of. Meanwhile, a shipyard ended up in bankruptcy. With everything that's well covered in the report, I have to look into something that's not said in this report, and that's what I have to mention to our biggest INA company that's become cancer-related to its management. In the context of this, there is also a disputed letter which the Agency allegedly warned the Government of the Republic of Croatia about the agreement, and regarding the management of the INA that passed over to the MOL, and in the end such an important institution of the Competition Protection Agency should not be allowed to do so as to behave so sloppyly when it comes to the delivery of mail without evidence and a written trace of the delivery of mail, especially when it comes to the management of such a strategically important company in Croatia as the INA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19284	Thank you, too. In the name of the SDP club, a respected representative, Drazenko Pandek, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19285	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected directors, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The importance of competition for the development of the economy is naturally undeniable. Market competition is the basis of the economic system that we have chosen, competition and competence act positively at a higher level. First of all, at consumer level, which thanks to market mechanisms that are freely developed, they gain access to better, cheaper products. At the level of the producer of competition in a particular market, it therefore forces it to make additional efforts to improve efficiency and quality, which prepares it to expand and strengthen its performance in other markets, as well as to increase its willingness to enter its market for competition. At global and national level, the existence of an effective competition enables new investors and investors to enter, fosters economic recovery and new employment. With regard to the above, I would also remind myself of the liberalisation of taxi services in Zagreb, as an example where the movement of barriers has just improved the quality of services, reduced prices, fuelled increased consumption on the market of taxi services has benefited almost everyone. Although this importance of free competition of competition is indisputable and self-comprehensible, it is often the impression that this concept is still sometimes difficult to accept in the Croatian economic system. Economic operators are under the impression that it is too often difficult to establish some kind of market control, control of other economic operators, tend to pursue some kind of agreement and restrict competition with the aim of providing themselves with a somewhat more comfortable position and ensuring that market mechanisms are affected. Although such an attitude is somewhat "natural" in the Croatian environment, it is again and counterproductive even for those economic operators themselves. In large markets, avoiding competition rights for large entities can benefit and benefit, of course, from the damages of all others. But for our economic operators, which are generally small in economic European terms, it is absolutely and absolutely not worth it. The rules of the competition for EU entry are clearly set out every attempt to make it difficult, nuanced these rules ultimately harm those who are trying to avoid their application because they themselves will not prepare enough for what awaits them. On the contrary, just as soon as they adapt to these rules, taking advantage of these rules for their own growth is essentially the only choice for them. The best example of a mentality that does not accept and does not understand the rules that apply to the economic system in which we live is just the frequent demand for state intervention after a certain economic operator is in difficulty. These requirements are mostly in the form of requests for direct support or State guarantees. By providing such vertical support, it is essentially in most such cases in an indirect manner that taking advantage of those who would use it significantly more efficiently, expand their activity, employ more workers and allocate these funds to those who will benefit from the mere survival for a little while longer. And ultimately, such vertical support and opinions are, if therefore, difficulties in the business of a more lasting nature are more harm than benefits. The following in the public opinion points out that the share of state aid in GDP in Croatia is more than multiple in the European Union, while most state resources go to help sectors in problems, which is essentially contrary to the practice of the European Union. The second thing is, of course, horizontal support which is correctly recognised in the report as one that can promote the convergence and even development of regions, employment, environmental protection, research and development, development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Of course, economic operators themselves are under increasing pressure both because of the economic crisis and because of the need for accelerated adaptation and development of their products and services. However, if they want to survive on the market, the answer is by no means in subsidising by the state in terms of direct aid to obtaining, for example, reromation and payouts, but they must constantly adapt their production and labour methods. If you allow a small depression to currently save jobs with direct vertical support by the state, it can hardly preserve those places in the longer term. The answer to the pressure on jobs is by no means pouring more and more resources into companies that are so to say living dead people but moving focus and resources in insurance so-called. The security flex, which is easier to create new jobs against the effort to preserve the existing which is to support the efforts undertaken by companies and workers to adapt to market change. Furthermore, this mentality problem in competition is seen as often as market participants are not even aware that they are taking illicit actions within the meaning of the law, this Competition Protection Act. And in this report, it is therefore concluded that there is still insufficient awareness in Croatia that price agreements are prohibited. We feel positive that special work has been observed to raise awareness and knowledge of the competition. I therefore particularly welcome the Agency's action towards further awareness and education of both operators involved in the competition and the public, i.e. on the legal arrangement of the competition itself and the rules established in this area. The Agency’s certificate of good work in this area is the data of 200 media publications in the field of competition and state aid. The educational and advisory role of the Agency is visible in providing numerous answers to state support recipients, giving expert opinions and maintaining expert advice and education. We also assess this aspect of the Agency's work, although it is often not in the first place extremely significant. Only this report on work is very detailed, transparent, are well explained some individual cases that the agency has considered. For example, the existence of a forbidden horizontal agreement has been established, so the cartel in one case. And I point out that because that's where we think we should point out about fighting paxes and creating cartels and professional circles. In fact, there are warnings that the legislation in Croatia is somewhat insufficient and that there are no possibilities for improvement. It is warned that in areas of energy, telecommunications, banking, retailing and the consequences of professional services closing the entrance of competition. Therefore, in areas where a small number of closed market participants are at real risk, so the creation of oligopols that go to consumer harm. Such phenomena are very difficult to determine. These can only be determined by concrete economic analyses which are also applied in European practice and in accordance with modern European legislation, in which particular attention is directed to the analysis, hence the economic effects of the behaviour of entrepreneurs by using certain economic texts such as the NAP test and other tests. The role of the Agency would certainly be to propose appropriate legal solutions that would go towards your setting up such a situation and to allow the application of those methods used in European practice. A situation in which it is harmful... It may establish almost only on the basis of the whistle's testimony does not essentially suit the fight against such phenomena. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, there are opportunities for further progress in this field. There are also found, let's say the indications that certain harmful oligopolies exist. It is noticeable, for example, that prices of certain products in Croatia retain significantly higher levels than in other markets, even in the same retail chains that operate abroad and abroad. But it is clear to discover such cartels if they exist. Therefore, it is extremely complex and even more difficult to prove existence, and it is certainly necessary to support efforts to improve and identify and prove such cases. The very agency that we are assessing at the SDP club has shown a significant initiative in the area of regulation. The drafts of the 9 regulations adopted by the government were thus drawn up. The Agency took part in the preparation of proposals for other laws concerning the problems and protection of competition and certain legislative initiatives were given which should certainly be supported, such as those given to the competent ministry in relation to the regulation of the price list of Croatian Chamber of Engineering, the Chamber of Architects, the Chamber of Engineers of Engineering and the Chamber of Electrical Engineering. This issue of service prices, especially architects, construction engineers and geodesys, has certainly been updated and the need to act as quickly, better and more efficiently as possible in the legalisation of illegally built objects. This also raises the question of other professions which, in the rules of their chambers, have limited this competition in some ways well, this is another topic. In connection with the cartel's problems with legal solutions, we think it is interesting to mention that European Commissioners for the Protection of Competition Joaqain Almunia expressed doubts, therefore, that banks are manipulating key interest rates. He thus told the European Parliament's Economic and Monetary Policy Committee that there is an opportunity for banks and their brokers to manipulate the market. If that were true, then they would create a kind of financial cartel. If, therefore, we refer to our situation, we can kill ourselves that the CNB is responsible for the system of protection of competition in the banking system in Croatia, but the opening of such complex issues neither in Croatia, and given this European practice there is certain and the possibility that such issues will have to be opened with us. It will not be possible without the cooperation of all bodies that regulate this problem and without proposing new legal solutions that would allow for better regulation. And as for, for example, capital markets in which there was an observation on the detection of some illogical regulation, of course the primary role is played by the Croatian Financial Market Supervisory Agency and as far as we know, a cooperation agreement has been signed between these two agencies. But we are positively assessing this interagency cooperation, and we are stressing both the need for further expansion and cooperation. As a special type of cartel, while we are talking about cartels, cartels also stand out by setting up public competitions where entrepreneurs agree on who will win the competitions. In particular, we stress the need to fight more effectively against such phenomena, which is closely linked to the classical fight against corruption, which also requires cooperation with other state bodies such as the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and others. Otherwise, the existing Competition Protection Act has given serious instruments to the agency that can benefit us in its work, which are therefore in European practice, have proved to be in the past, according to previous experience as particularly successful. For example, Article 42 provides for the possibility and announced search of business premises, land and means of transport and would be interesting to see that this instrument, whether or not this instrument has been used at all, and which are obstacles to its use if it is not. Article 65 provides for the possibility of partoring whistles. It would also be interesting to know whether the application of this article has taken place in the past. In this latter article, it is clear that without strict and swift punishment for violating the provisions of the law as possible so far, as it is possible to kill by positive rules so far, there will not be a great response to whistles. In the past, complaints came from the agency that the proceedings before the criminal courts were resolved slowly, and that the sentences were imposed in a very small number of cases and were minimal. We believe that strengthening the authority of agencies in this area is necessary. Now the legal situation is different, and we believe that significant changes will come in this field in the future. In relation to the procedures for the resolution of individual cases, there was a rise in the number of total cases resolved between 2009 and 2011 as well as in the area of protection of competition in a narrow sense. In view of the Agency's capacities and the means of work at our disposal, we must certainly be satisfied with the figures presented and the work presented. This report is in the opinion of us from the SDP club well done, shows progress in the protection of competition, shows the work of the agency professionally and in a way that we support it accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19286	Thank you. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. Does the President-in-Office of the Council want it? There's no need. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19287	The annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2011, the debate on the report was concluded. In line with the proposal of the Economic Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2011. a year." I'd like to make a statement as to who the proposed conclusion is. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 118 votes, 1 vote against and 5 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19288	And this fruitful working day will end with a united discussion of two points of the agenda, that is : - Work report for 2010 of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency - Work report for 2011 of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets. You've received the material into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honored Goran Matesic, president of the administrative council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is fortunate that this report on the work of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency comes after the report of the Chief or Fundamental Regulator of the Competition Protection Agency. Since the tasks and responsibilities of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency are just beginning where AZTN's competences and activities cease. The Agency for the Regulation of the Railway Markets is an independent regulatory body, a specific sector or a specific market. Regulators are always based on specific markets that were once all in the monopoly, in the state monopoly. The railway market is a single European market and this is not a national market. Hence, the national regulator is part of the EU regulatory network. This agency was established by law based on Directive 440 and Directive 14. The EU, which was established in the process of negotiating and joining the EU Republic of Croatia. Here you have 2 reports, one for 2010 which was submitted less than a year ago and it represents actually the first full annual report of the Agency and was established in 2009 somewhere on 30th of July, so the first report was related to 2009 but only 6 months, it was practically a technical report. This is a report that has value in presenting for the first time a unique demonstration and analysis of the situation on the rail market. In that sense, except that this report contains data on the work of therefore financial operations and human potentials of the agency itself, it also contains an analysis of the rail market with us, we have tried to give as many indicators as possible. Some may be too high, but since the first report was and such indicators in one place could not be found so far, we were free to display them. And immediately comparatively next 2011 report does not contain those data that have not actually changed. What should be apostrophyd in the 2010 report is problems related to the fixing of the tax. The tax, namely the prices for the use of infrastructure, and the rail market is actually the market managed by the infrastructure manager, the name is HZ Infrastructure, it is incorporated, it is actually integrated into the HZ Concert and hence are certain problems in its business and there are particular problems in terms of achieving independence of these basic functions of the infrastructure manager. One of the basic functions is the fixing of the fee. The fee must also be based on the direct costs of the Directives and domestic law, but it must also not include any historical cost of credit and investment, it must be merely a commercial cost of the use of that infrastructure. But at the same time, it must reflect and therefore, in that sense, it has elements and political decisions because it must reflect, it must not choke industry, and somewhere like that. in Finland where the duty is zero with the aim of stimulating the transfer of goods from roads where it is less environmentally acceptable to rails that are environmentally clean because they are electrified. So that fee is, one task of the agency is to control the structure and the tax scheme. In order not to be longer, we have found that the management of the concert is actually carrying out a non-competitional influence, it has done and prevented the infrastructure manager from forming an independent fee as it was his duty. In later years, especially today, this has been corrected in a way that, among other things, the report on the following year on our intervention has been made up into a change in the composition of HZ Holding, which was attended by representatives of the management of operators, but not infrastructure managers. And so they were in a position to have more rights than possibly new carriers that would appear on the market and that situation was potentially discriminatory. This report contains specific information on the revenues and costs of electricity costs in train towing, but it has been found in fact that infrastructure managers who are an intermediary in the supply of electricity to tow trains pay for the electricity used by the company tows and after the service is towed by passenger and freight. So, again, we have found that this is a non-conforming influence, which burdens the infrastructure manager to pay for the costs of electricity that he does not actually spend on his function. What I will only give a presentation, which is the participation of State budget funds with the infrastructure manager, this is a young area, so perhaps it should be said that the infrastructure manager is a natural monopolist under the directive, both by directives and by national legislation. The infrastructure manager is the one who manages the infrastructure on behalf of the state on the basis of a contract that should be a concession contract and it must actually ensure objectivity, transparency and non-discrimination. And he's actually a basic surveillance facility by this marketing agency. Therefore, it is the only one who has the right to the State budget as opposed to the operators that are companies in the sector that would not have the right to realise the State budget. We provided information on the state budget, but also on the funds that are on that same basis, therefore not on that same basis but which are due to the use of the railway infrastructure and it turns out that only 10% of the actual costs of using the infrastructure are covered by revenues, and the rest is covered by the state budget. This year's report also contains technical data on the network, it also contains legal information on the conditions of use of the infrastructure, it is merely a description, where rail infrastructure is mentioned which is not a public good in general use is specifically thought of so-called ‘public service’. "last soap" or "ends", which are commercial endings of the seaport type. Here we have a legal deficit and a legal problem because this matter is not regulated by law, and it has an exceptional impact, therefore, on the smallest occurrence of discrimination on the market when it takes place at the last one, where the goods must be boarded or disembarked, it actually disabling the whole process. What we have found is that the legal framework is insufficient, but not only there but also an analysis of the legal framework governing the Law on Railways, so the material and legal regulation has been found to be incompletely governing issues. In fact, Croatia has an obligation to implement 4 railway packages, some of which are technical interoperability or technical and technological standardisation, but on the other hand, and this is not a narrow area of interest for this marketing agency, but that is why the market is. Market relations that must be regulated by law are not sufficiently prescribed. And that's one of the reasons why the agency was in some way disabled in the surveillance and control of that market without good material law. There is also a lack of regulation governing the work of the Agency itself in terms of the instruments of procedural provisions and tools that could make it more efficient to achieve its task. In this report, I am talking about 10 and entities in the rail market with a specific aspect of the assessment of infrastructure manager status and the impact of HZ system organisation on the independence of infrastructure manager. This is a story that took place in the later years of 2011 and in particular in 2012 in a positive way, so that this impact is reduced to something that would be acceptable. When we speak, therefore, an analysis of the state of competition or the state of competition in the area of the railway market is the central subject of the work and study and data collection of the agency, but other than this analysis of the agencies is, in fact, a function like all regulators, the function of the appeal body. In 2010, and later in 2011, the agency did not receive any complaints, which may mean that operators are satisfied, but it may also mean that they have found ways to resolve possible disputes within the HZ concert, so they have not hired the regulator at all. It is expected that the regulator will often be used by new operators on the market, because it is in fact the only confidence to them in non-discriminatory behaviour on the market. In terms of agencies, we have therefore developed the methodology of a regulatory report with regard to neighbouring regulatory bodies in the EU. It is a set of economic and financial data required by the infrastructure manager and thus checking his business, and everything in the function of the assessment whether he is independent. If it is independent then it can carry out its basic task, which is to ensure a transparent and non-discriminatory market. We have also initiated a procedure that I have already practically talked about, in order to assess the independence of the infrastructure manager, established this disagreement with the law and gave opinions on the subsequent year, we are talking about the 2011 report and put the order under way, and then there was a change in composition. So, as part of the HZ Holding administration, there were no longer representatives of operators who were able to achieve, basically conflict of interest, but some better position for their companies. Our agency has, since it has said itself, we are part of a regulatory framework or regulatory network, we are a member of a working group of regulatory bodies with the European Commission. It is a place where exchange of best practice, develop methodologies and technologies, and it is a place where we have learned extremely well. The cooperation of regulatory bodies is an obligation, legal and per directive because it is a single market when a dispute occurs on a part of the route that can be passed through several countries, it is logical that more regulatory bodies will be involved in such a process and from that point on, bilateral and multilateral cooperation is something that we have done in these years, in detail, something that we have done extremely. One of the things we did was that in Zagreb a round table of Southeastern European regulators was organized, and here we took a good step, although we have connected the regulatory bodies of these neighbours from which we are the only, in fact, candidates, so no one else is either a candidate or this Member State. That would be, not so short a 2010 report. The 2011 report is slightly different structured in such a way that all of it, as well as significant changes except in economic terms, continues to fall. There was no change in the description of the railway infrastructure. In that sense, we dropped it, we more described the real activity of the agency since in 2011, there was no appeal. It was again the subject of our special procedure under official duty, it was an examination of this fee for the use of rail services, so we came back to a similar result which is why that procedure I was telling you about. I'd like to say one sentence, perhaps, of specific actions under official duty that are characteristic of regulatory bodies. There is one, one jurisdiction called rail service quality control, rail transport. It is a jurisdiction that, in fact, the regulator should, according to the diction of this, and other than this in the law, do not say anything else, would control the way rail services are provided, so how the operators provide to their committees. This is an illogical jurisdiction, above all, because the market regulator is responsible for infrastructure managers that organises and manages the market and allows access to anyone who asks for it and must allow it in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner. Quality control is a typical issue of consumer protection. Except that the legislator put us in charge of this activity nothing else in the law was told. It's not said what are the indicators, what are the criteria, by which method, which powers, and what should actually be established by the agency in this. This does not say anything about the directives under which, therefore, the directives are a model for the establishment of this agency. As a result, the agency did not fully carry out this activity because it did not know how to implement it and I say it was not regulated by law. But we have, as a possible step, taken that we have collected data that has an impact on the quality of the use of rail services such as delays, lengthening driving, and then we have given that information, hoping that the legislator will draw a conclusion from this that this jurisdiction or should be abandoned in relation to the regulator or should be prescribed. The specific procedures we conducted continued to monitor the independence of the infrastructure manager because it was one of the key things. There was also a specific situation that occurred last year, and it's also very much, so we're talking about the eleventh year, and it's also characteristic of the twelfth year. So this year we don't report in, but I'm just saying. It's an accession contract issue. The technology is such that operators using the railway infrastructure must apply previously, make a request for the allocation of the route or capacity, and this is granted to them on a timetable. And then they have to close their accession agreements at the beginning of the year for the whole calendar year. The contract shall regulate mutual relations and compensation and the basis of the contract may be used by the route. In the 11th year, we found it quite by chance because someone said so, not by intervention, but on the clear knowledge that the accession agreement was not concluded until about 6 months. We hired, we asked for a meeting with both the ministry and the security agency because it was also a matter of security and we want to believe that after that meeting there was a signing of the contract. Something else really happened. Indeed, the operators were dissatisfied with the level of compensation and then they were able to exert pressure through the Holding administration by reducing the amount of the fee and then they signed the contract. So, in this year until today or until a few days ago when I have the latest information, access contracts are not signed or monthly fees are paid for using the infrastructure. And that's the situation we're in, we're about to maybe not tell you what's going on today because we're going to be saying it in the next report. But that's one of the problems that continues this year. I think I've marked something out of these other questions, so I believe you've read it, so I don't think there's any need for it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19290	Thank you. Does a representative, a committee reporter, want to take a word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government? He's not even here. We're moving on to a debate. Tomislav Zhagar on behalf of the SDP club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19291	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Administration, the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept reports by the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. These reports are indeed coming from outside the regular timeframe, especially the 2010 report. Nevertheless, we can determine how these reports show us the unsustainable situation that we had not only on the railway market but also on the Croatian railways in general. As the report also stated, the important task of the railway market regulator was not to provide legal protection through the appeal process but to monitor and monitor the situation and occurrences, analysis, and impact on the achievement of such conditions that would ensure transparency and equality of participants. And although the Agency's competences are not fulfilled under their legal frameworks, it has nevertheless managed to detect the problems that need to be addressed in order to manage to regulate and clearly define a rail market that would function transparently and without discrimination. Since the Agency is an independent regulatory body, this should also be seen in financial independence, which has not been the case so far. It is not until this financial year that the Agency is included in the budget as an independent budgetary user. Some of the problems identified and presented in this report are the following. First of all, these are shortcomings within the existing legal framework that need to be removed as soon as possible. The Republic of Croatia has not implemented all the European legislation, which includes four packages of the directive. The first railway infrastructure package, the second railway revitalisation package through the establishment of an integrated European railway space. The third package is the railway revitalisation package and the fourth technical package. The legal framework in force in the Republic of Croatia is partly in line with the first railway package. The state of rail infrastructure is the least said is very bad. HZ infrastructure as infrastructure manager in the Republic of Croatia manages 2722 km of railway. Of the total length of the line of the two-way stripes, there is only 254 km or 9.3%. 985 km or 36.2% of the total length of the track has been electrified. More than 60% of the total length of the railway network today is outside the maintenance cycle, which means that the average useful life of the circular upper structure in that part of the network is exceeded and that it is no longer possible to maintain it in a technically useful state for a safe flow of speed-designed traffic. This results in a constant reduction of permitted train speeds. Let's mention that the state of the station wagons is 600 km long from a total of 866 km in dissatisfaction. The number of trains transported in passenger and freight transport is in constant decline and the number of passengers transported and the quantity of goods and goods transported. So in 2011, road transport took a leading position in the number of passengers transported even though it also recorded a fall. While in the amount of goods transported, road transport has a significant share of rail transport, which with many aspects is not good. Although there is a clear system for determining the tax, it has not been applied. The 2011 Network Report states that the principle level of fees for a minimum access package of services and access by rail to service facilities is determined on the basis of actual costs for maintenance and management of railway infrastructure. For the time being, however, the amount of the fee does not reflect the actual cost of maintenance and management of the railway infrastructure, but is determined by the amount of the infrastructure manager's resources from the state budget to cover the maintenance and management costs of the railway infrastructure. The administration of the Croatian Railways and Holding as the Assembly of Infrastructure Managers has directly influenced the decision on the level of the tax by approving and adopting their business and financial plans. In this way, there has been a spilling of State budget funds intended for maintenance and infrastructure management. In 2010 and 2011, no complaints were received from railway undertakings about the decisions of the infrastructure manager. This shows that disputes have been settled past regulators within HZ Holding, which may indicate the non-transparency of relations in the use of rail services and the existence of circumstances that prevent the application of market competition rules. Report on the 2011 network that brings... the infrastructure determines the Treaty of Accession, and the contract granting the infrastructure manager the right to access the railway infrastructure and which regulates the rights and obligations of each other, determines the capacity allocated, the amount of the fee for the use of the railway infrastructure and other issues relating to the safety of transport and environmental protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The contract for access to HZ Infrastructure approves the railway carrier access to the railway infrastructure. The accession agreement shall be concluded after the implementation of the capacity allocation procedure. However, this has not been done with all operators on time, and the main reason for not signing the contract by the carrier is the complaint of the carrier at the level of the fee made in the Report on the Network 2011. The method of showing business developments in the profit and loss account in the part of revenue and expenditure from the service of using electricity for towing trains is not transparent since the infrastructure manager has no shown revenue from that service although they are real. Management of Croatian Railways Holding directly determines the amounts to be charged by the electricity user for train towing, while the rest of the cost falls to the infrastructure manager. In this case, it is justified to ask the question of impact on the independence of the performance of basic functions by the infrastructure manager. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company HZ adopted by the Croatian Parliament has enabled the Government of the Republic of Croatia to restructure the Croatian Railways, which is already being examined in two decisions made by the Government. These are decisions on the merger of HZ Holding and HZ Infrastructure, and the merger of HZ Trains with HZ Cargo and HZ Passenger Transport. These are initial steps to overcome, among other things, the difficulties mentioned in the report, which prevents full market transparency and enable the creation of conditions for discrimination in the railway system. Although the market shares of national carriers that are public ownership are 100% and new private carriers still do not need to work daily on the construction, market-based system, and to remove obstacles to the arrival of new carriers. Finally, the SDP Representatives Club proposes to the Croatian Assembly to accept the Agency's report on the regulation of the rail market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19292	Thank you. The HDZ club's position will be presented by a respected representative of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19293	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Management Council of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues. Let me also briefly state the views of the Croatian Democratic Community Club on this report by the Railway Regulation Agency for 2010 and 2011. I will focus exclusively on this report I will not spread the topic on the Croatian railways because then this time as planned would certainly be too little. Therefore, as already stated in this Report, that is to say, the Railway Market Regulation Agency was established by the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of Railway Services Markets pursuant to Article 25. The law of the Administrative Council of the Agency has been adopted by the Statute adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 and since then we have virtually considered that the Agency has started to work. This establishment of this agency, so it wasn't a clear coincidence. It is the obligation of all Member States of the European Union. Therefore, this regulatory body must be established because this condition in the procedure and negotiations was on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. The Agency's core task is to ensure non-discriminatory conditions in the rail market through the exercise of activities under its jurisdiction, and they are listed here and there are a whole series of them. This is the solution to complaints from railway undertakings, I do not know the procedure in the results of the division of railway infrastructure, infrastructure capacity, the criteria for determining charges for the use of railway infrastructure, the height of the structure, the charges for use, decisions on the approval of access to railway and rail infrastructure, other cases of access insurance, supervision of the negotiations of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, quality control of the provision of rail services, prior consent to the appointment and resolution of members of the managing body, infrastructure manager, analysis and monitoring of the state of competition in the rail market etc. I think this report is good, that it realistically shows the situation in the rail market in the Republic of Croatia and that it opens up certain issues that need to be regulated in the next period. I'm talking about the 2010 report, which was also the first report on the Agency's work. This report also shows a further effort to form an agency so that it can be ready for work that starts with the preparation for opening the rail market towards railways registered outside the Republic of Croatia, and as my colleague said before me, which is still not in Croatia, i.e. on the railways of the Republic of Croatia. The report said well, it describes the situation relatively broadly in the railway sector. So here we assume that it's not just because it's the first report, but that the next reports, and we already have one for 2011 that's just as good and so good. As far as the 2012 report is concerned, it is teaching on this 2010 report. It provides an overview of the situation on the market through a description of the infrastructure and the statements of relevant economic indicators. The report points to problems and difficulties in the functioning of the system, but also proposes solutions to improve this report. In the absence of complaints, the agencies have tried and tried to remove obstacles to the functioning of the market. And as far as I know, she did. The Agency shall develop its role both through cooperation with other regulatory authorities and membership in the working group of regulatory bodies with the European Commission and a group of independent regulatory bodies in the form of 20 regulatory bodies of EU Member States. What I want to say in the end is that the role of this agency is very important and important already, although we do not have on our tracks, I said before the operator except Croatian railways, i.e. passenger transport and cargo, but all the conditions for this are made and they can come. It is not simple, there are difficulties not only in Croatia, there are difficulties in Europe, but one of the preconditions for them to come and that this Corridor X that goes through Croatia, and it is very important for the railway corridor, of course, also roadway, but the railway system, which lost its function in the Homeland War when the transport did not go up north through Hungary, so investment in rail infrastructure. By investing in rail infrastructure, the modernisation of rail infrastructure will certainly be improved regardless of what currently we have a fall in transport and goods and passengers. So there will be more trains, I believe there will be more and more railway infrastructure operators, which is a public good in general use, and this will also have more work to do with the Railway Market Regulation Agency whose task is exactly what I said at the beginning of transparency and non-discriminatory conditions for all those who want to use that infrastructure. The HDZ Club supports the 2010 and 2011 Report. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19294	Thank you, too. So we're done discussing clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. She was registered by distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic, but as she does not lose the right to debate on this agenda point. For the final word, I don't think there's any need, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I think the conditions have come to an end today and to announce that we will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2011. Thank you and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-24-0.u19295	Work report for 2010 of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2010 Report of the Railway Markets Regulatory Agency is hereby adopted". I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by the majority of the vote by 110 votes, 4 votes against and 10 abstentions. Thank you very much.
