ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7550	My colleagues and colleagues, respected MPs and respected representatives, we are going to work as representatives for the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all as I welcome the representatives of the government. I would also like to congratulate Dan Europe on all MPs and MPs and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to mark it solemnly, because we will soon become the EU's official citizens. I once again congratulate Europe Day. Dear colleagues and colleagues are therefore on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 71 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal in excess, and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. Those are the provisions of Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Discussion on the draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister, Professor Rajko Ostojić, please introduce us to the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7551	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Congratulations Europe Day and perhaps this is the most beautiful gift of Croatia to Europe The Law on Medical Insemination is a European law and we are finally entering this law into the circle of European states. So, once again, congratulations and finally we enter the European context. Why? Because this is a law on the treatment of infertility, because this is a law that is solely made by medical insemination, exclusively and only wants to help all those couples, all women who unfortunately have a diagnosis of infertility. Therefore, it is indeed today that Croatia finally enters a circle of European countries, a circle of European countries that in this way and this method, or method of medical insemination, implemented in their European legislation. Of course, the law is primarily medical, but we also know that the "public debate" lasts exactly 84 days, because other than medicine opens up a whole series of other ethical, bioethical, legal, sociological, cultural and civilizational issues. Personally, I am proud of this law in front of the Ministry of Health, proud of the fact that it is fully based on 6 of the following principles: the principle of optimal treatment, the principle of choice, the principle of women and children's health, the principle of justice, the principle of availability and the 6th principle of participation of NGOs in the executive boards. Well, let's take it in a row. The principle of optimal treatment, therefore, is one of the best European medical laws that provides a whole range of procedures, 6 procedures in line with best European and world clinical practice. The second is the principle of choice, so there are six different diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and no one, no one, is an emphasis, does not impose one of these methods. The principle of choice is respected. In accordance with the medical condition of a woman or a couple and according to their principles. The third principle is the principle of health and women. I have already said the medically best European medical-based law, based on evidence that provides optimal hormonal stimulation that in absoluteity protects women's health, reduces the minimum risk of multiple pregnancies and consequential syndromes that can rarely end up in fatal and fatal complications. Thus, it absolutely protects the principle of women and children’s health. The 4th principle is the principle of righteousness. So far, couples and women who have been treated for infertility have had to undergo sometimes very painful procedures, beginning with so-called “infertility. ” psychological counselling since going to public notebooks, etc., etc. And in the end, they were discriminated against other patients no matter what diagnosis they had for other patients and thus respects the principle of justice. The principle of availability, I don't doubt respected colleagues and colleagues that you all want all treatment procedures for all diseases, for all diagnosis to be in Croatia, as well as diagnostics and therapy. Since you are colleagues and colleagues selected at the Festival of Democracy, and these are parliamentary elections and surely, you certainly respect all those who have chosen you then respect their wishes, respect their desire not to be treated abroad if they can be treated in Croatia. Respect the desire of all these couples or women, all those who have this diagnosis to finally begin to heal in their homeland, in Croatia in their homeland. It's your obligation, me and the executive, but since I've sworn as a parliamentary representative and as our parliamentary representatives, that's why we're calling you respected colleagues and colleagues, because we're all on the same mission. The 6th is the principle of participation. Representative of the Association of Patients will participate equally in the work of the new National Commission. And it's on the trail of our promise, which is that maximum patient associations will use all of their knowledge, and therefore the Ministry of Health, in the end of the Wednesdays, has open-door days because we health professionals are trained to diagnose, give treatment, but the best patients, patient associations know in daily clinical practice what barriers, difficulties arise. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you all know very well that you have friends, famous relatives, how difficult it is to know that a child cannot begin naturally. That knowledge is shaken for every woman, for every couple who finds out, which is a diagnosis with an uncertain outcome as well as for a whole series of other states. Not only is the diagnosis stressful, it's stressful and it's the procedure itself, it's painfully painful, it doesn't guarantee that it will succeed, it doesn't guarantee that it will come to the birth of a child right away, so people, our citizens, are forced to go that way many times to finally have a child. Dear colleagues, when you debate and when you vote, remember these couples, remember their end of the road, give them joy at the end of the road. It is because of this joy at the end of the road that I believe and hold that no one in it should make it impossible for them in any way. Because of this happiness, no one should make them impossible in any way, and my assignment as Minister of Health to make it possible for them to take advantage of everything modern medicine offers, and therefore I am very proud of the law that is before you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7552	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Representative Biljana Borzana, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7553	Thank you very much. At its 6th session held on 27 April, the Health and Social Care Committee discussed this proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation. After the introduction of the proposal, a rather sharp debate developed, and the debate highlighted the draft law opens up the possibility of a choice in line with the medical professions and practices in almost all European countries. The law respects the beliefs of those who agree with the freezing of mattresses so that they can choose this way so far, and those who have a different view of life do not have to use these methods that this law prescribes. In the process of medically assisted insemination, married couples or out-of-marriage spouses can be engaged, a business capable woman whose treatment of infertility, although not in the marriage community, has been unsuccessful, and the woman is capable of parental care for the child. Advantage is given to homologous fertilisation, using its own sex cells. During the debate, the committee also drew attention to the issues identified in the legislative proposal by the storage of sex cells, tissues and embryos. It is stored according to the achievements of modern medicine and science, with written consent in authorized health institutions. It is therefore noted that this is one of the most modern laws, so the law, or bill, which respects all modern achievements of the medical profession. The egg cells shall be kept at the expense of the state budget for up to 5 years, after which they shall be destroyed with the notice of spouses, or outside spouses. If a woman wants to donate them, she is obliged to inform the health care facility. In addition, the members of the committee shall pay particular attention to the provisions of the draft laws governing the right of the person to be conceived and born with the help of medically assisted fertilisation, donated to the semen or ova, or to the indication that, at the age of 18, he or she is entitled to have insight into the data register of conception and insight into the identity of the donor, i.e. the donor of the semen cell or embryo. Members of the board expressed these different opinions, I would like to say irreconcilable views in the section relating to the rights of persons to insight into donor data, i.e. my biological origin. Also, everyone in the debate, as the minister in the opening statement, agreed that it was primarily a medical law that brought the field of human reproduction into our country into a new period with a number of new legal provisions in a sensitive, complex and expensive area of medicine that has always triggered different ethical dilemmas as well as discussions that have been voiced in these 80 days since the public debate on the law took place. However, board members consider it necessary to lead the mission, which is to enable all those who, for health reasons, cannot have their child to do so by this law or medically assisted fertilisation. After the debate, the members of the majority of the vote, 7 for and 34 against the Croatian Parliament, decided to adopt the following conclusion that the proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and any objections, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate would be submitted to the applicant to take them into account during the final draft of the law, as I recall the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7554	Thank you very much to the Presidents of the Committee on Health and Social Care for the Honorable Representatives of Biljani Borzani. And I apologize to the honourable representative, Davor Stier, for reporting a correction to an incorrect quote on the prime minister's opening statement. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I wish you all a happy day of Europe, too, but I would correct Mr. Minister's imprecise that this is European law. This is not European law, this is not part of European gain. If we're going to talk, and let me know something about it, if we're going to talk about the acquis, if we're going to talk about EU decisions, then you have to mention the last decision of the EU Court of Justice since 21 October 2011 where the acquis is interpreted and where life is said to begin with. So, if we have already mentioned Europe and the EU, then we must also mention what the EU institutions say about this and what the Court of Justice's rulings are. And unanimously in the Committee on European Affairs, we asked the Government to provide us with a report on the compliance of this law with that EU Court of Justice ruling, which we have not yet received, which the Government must deliver until the second reading. It is not even true that it is not discriminated against and that this is in harmony with righteousness, because In Article 10 of this proposal, however, it is discriminated against that some children, unfortunately, have been condemned from the outset to have no father and that is discrimination. [[Intruder Leko: Time Honored Representative.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7556	Thank you very much. Let's go to the next report. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for this Law on Medical Aided Insemination at its session. The Committee discussed the proposal as an interested working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In an opening statement, the minister explained the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, stressed that the proposal was based on six principles. These are optimal treatment, the principle of choice, the principle of women and children's health, justice, availability, and the principle of participation of NGOs. Following the introduction of the proposal, the committee members expressed different views. It is thus pointed out that such a bill essentially addresses the ethical issue of freezing embryos or sex cells and that it allows for an opportunity, i.e. the possibility for those who want to become parents to actually become this way, because, of course, the desire for a child is one of the primary desires. On the other hand, there have been a number of comments, among other things, that unlike the current law, this proposal does not contain a provision on a second opinion which opens up the possibility of medical bias. Then a question was asked which is not defined in the proposed law, which is what happens to frozen traps after five years if the couple who has fed them does not decide to pay for further storage, i.e. after 10 years as far as possible according to this proposal of the law to store the obfuscated embryos. Further related to the rights of a child born in the process of medical help insemination to know who his parents are as defined in Article 15 of the Law. The question arises: In the discussion, they asked the question of the child’s right to know about potential brothers and sisters who were born into several families. A general question has been asked why the law is passed, i.e. an amendment to the law when, according to proposals some MPs have made, when in the first year of application of that old law there was a 24% higher number of children born in the process of medical insemination. However, after the discussion was conducted, the health minister referred to the comments made, stressed that such a proposal leaves room for the profession to conduct optimal treatment, and that all potentially involved in the medically assisted fertilisation were taken into account when drawing up the proposal itself. After the discussion was held, the board members voted mostly, 7 votes in favour, 2 votes against, and 1 abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Medical Supported Insemination in the text, of course, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7558	Now we're going back to the debate on the text of the law that's on the agenda. I call on the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality to read the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament at its 5th The session, held on 3 May this year, discussed the proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation submitted by the government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer's representative introduced the bill and stated that the adoption of a new Law on Medical Aided Insemination, which regulates assumptions for the exercise of the right to medically assisted fertilisation, determines the types of procedures of medically assisted fertilisation, and the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all participants in the proceedings. The proposed law of the Republic of Croatia also harmonizes its legislation with the acquis of the European Union. It is stated that the procedures prescribed by this law are implemented in order to achieve conception in accordance with the requirements of modern medical science and in particular with regard to the protection of women's health and the welfare of offspring. In the debate followed by the members and members of the Committee, they expressed different views, but also a series of objections to the draft law. For example, there is no complete solution for stored embryos because there is no indication of what happens after 10 years or 5 years of keeping in case a couple does not want to donate them. The termological discrepancies with other laws have also been warned that knowledge of origin at the age of 18 could endanger the child’s well-being in the most sensitive years of life. Furthermore, the question has been raised whether the procedures so far will be included in the total number or whether these procedures will be resuscitated as such. The representative of the Infertility Problem Association stated that the bill contains too many restrictions, e.g. a restriction on the fertilisation of 12 ova, a restriction on certain types of procedures, a age limit of 42 years. She also warned of the experiences of other countries that show that the donor of sex cells will not be unless they are guaranteed anonymity. She argued that the bill prohibits women who suffer from illness or injury to uterine removal because the proposal prohibits replacement motherhood. The concern has been expressed that due to the restrictive provisions, the treatment of infertility as such will become the privileges of a few similar and wealthy groups of infertile populations. Part of the board expresses the view that life begins with conception and does not support the proposal of a law that it considers commercial rather than medical law. On the other hand, members of the committee expressed support for the law that allows persons facing the problem of infertility to decide freely whether they want to use what modern medicine offers. The view is that, thanks to this bill, the number of mattresses remaining stored will be significantly reduced. The Advocate General for Gender Equality held the view that the bill represents progress in the treatment of infertility. She warned that so far a large number of couples have gone to neighbouring countries to treat infertility while this new law will allow the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to treat in their country of origin. However, it warned of the discriminatory provision of Article 10(7) in order to protect the child's well-being of a medically assisted fertilisation, there are no persons who have changed the sex that is contrary to the Law on Gender Equality. The Ombudsman welcomes any progress that makes it possible to parent couples who can't have children naturally. It supports the legal solution by which a child has the right to know his origins, which is in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The applicant's representative responded to a part of the questions and comments raised in the debate. The law is not expected to remain a long-term solution in view of modern medical achievements. Furthermore, he expects the answer to the question of the fate of the embryos after 10 years will also be given by modern medicine. By limiting to 12 fertilized egg cells according to the profession, the life and health of the woman are protected. The aided fertilisation procedures so far will be included in the total number of procedures on HZZO burdens. The proposal for a law will be completed and all interested parties are called upon to submit observations to the Ministry of Health in order to prepare a final draft of the law. After the debate was held, the members and members of the committee decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament: - a proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination - all objections and proposals will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7560	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of registered rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. We move to a debate by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. But before I give my word to the first representative of the club of MPs, I would ask all MPs and MPs to pay attention to every spoken word because it is a highly responsible subject we are discussing, and every word can cause personal disfavor, personal injury. I'm asking for tolerance and I'm asking for responsibility, and the debate, by the way, is welcome. I now call on the representative of the CNS, the respected representative Sonja König, to present on behalf of the club of the position, and the second part will be her colleague Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7561	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Controversed, ethically liberal, unethical, conservative, philosophical, political, inquisition all these are the words we hear daily from those who comment on the Law on medically assisted insemination. But 15% of our citizens who are directly affected by this law, people with fertility problems, are interested in the most important words of health, child, parenting, law and choice because that is what this is really about. Everyone has a right to decide whether or not they want to have children. Everyone has the right to decide whether they want one, one or more children. The proposed Law on Medical Breeding gives opportunity to those who want children and struggles with infertility to become parents. And that's why the HNS club supports the proposed Law on Medical Aided Insemination. The state thus gives the law a chance and a chance, and it is up to the citizens to decide whether or not they want to use this possibility in accordance with their worldly view of religious, humanistic, or some third conviction. Because the state is not even there to make that decision in place of the citizens, the state is there to allow every person to decide within the framework of the law on their position, to make the best decision of their own life for themselves in accordance with their own opinions and beliefs. And all these years, the state has been playing with the lives of people and the fates of people who solve, colleagues and colleagues, serious problems because those who want to become parents, and they have health problems, the possibility of becoming parents depends on regulations or regulations. the laws and their feasibility or conductivity in reality and in practice. The possibility of becoming parents depends, of course, on doctors and modern medicine. And nobody says that doctors are infallible or that they know everything about it, but when we talk about the issue of artificial fertilization and the freezing of embryos of logic, it requires that we take into account the opinion of experts, and experts say that the fertilization of a larger number of ova and the freezing of embryos increases the overall success of fertilisation, and thus clearly the birth of a child, or children. The proposed law respects the principle of humanity, protects the life and health of women. The proposed law does not drive women to additional or slightly harmless stimulated hormonal procedures that are painful, expensive, and mentally difficult to bear. Because if you ask, for example. The Mirjana I spoke to a year ago about the medically aided fertilization procedure. What it looks like in practice you will hear words such as ultrasound, hope, medicines for stimulated procedure, insemination, hope, depression, hope, injection, hormones, work-related gaps, hope, puncture of ovaries, pain, in vitro fertilisation, pain, stress, sadness, longing, hope, re-try, re-try, re-try, hope. Mirjana said a year ago everything about this law humiliates me, everything in me screams against him, and my diagnosis and my Mark is such that our chance to become parents is really small, but there is. But my country is diminishing our chance. My country is pushing me. Yet I believe that the law will one day change. And it's changing how it's a coalition of SDP, HNS, HSU, IDS and promised. However, because of Mirjana and thousands of our citizens who have similar problems, it is important that the Law on Medical Aided Insemination be found on our benches in the second reading so as to take effect as soon as possible and increase the chance for all who want it and struggle with infertility to become parents and realize their dream. The proposed law has and must function as a positive population policy. Croatia is, as we know, colleagues and colleagues among the countries with the lowest birth rate in Europe. Further democratic trends in Croatia will continue for which a quarter of the population will live less than today. The number of newborns will be equal to the number of live persons aged 65 years. There will be fewer marriages with family, in fact a family with two, three or more children. About sixty-five thousand children should be born annually to restore the population in Croatia, with an average of about forty thousand children. The proposed Law on Medical Aided Insemination increases the chances of conception to persons with fertility problem, increases the chance for birth of children and, in this respect, increases the achievement of the national population policy objectives and therefore we at the HNS club support the adoption of the proposed law as quickly as possible, both colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7562	Dear colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7563	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, dear ministers. Here's a colleague of König already said, so we really have a serious and huge talent problem in Croatia. A problem which, unfortunately, will not be solved either by calling for the people, by calling for responsibility, by calling for faith, by calling for anything, or by moaning over the problem is addressed by concrete, concrete measures. So, of course, the state can give financial incentives, it can make tax breaks, it can give free kindergartens, it can give free transportation of children to school and school, it can teach one-way classes and all the other measures that encourage birth, and, of course, this law belongs to one of these measures. But not to be fooled by this law is much more than one such measure. This law, which actually engulfs our human essence, is affecting our desires, our hopes, our beliefs and our traumas on the other hand, and our fears and disappointments when we find that we cannot become parents on our own, and that is what many of us and most of us really want, if not the greatest desire of our lives. As a result, the HNS has been active in this public debate since the very beginning, we have already spoken publicly about some of the things that we considered important, remain consistent and our political stance and what we have won elections with all of you coalition partners, ultimately consistent with what we have written in plan 21 with which we have received these elections. The bill we have today in our first reading is certainly a step in the right direction and I agree with Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister you can be proud, it's true. On this proposal you can be proud, especially when he compares himself to the regulation we have so far had which was at least rigid to not use a stronger word. Given the importance of this law, even at the HNS club, we wouldn't mind if he had gone through the emergency procedure as well as many other proposals so far, but this is how we feel that he should be discussed and should be adopted as soon as possible. Let's touch some of the concrete elements of this law. Article 7 of this proposal stipulates that, with the help of controlled ovulation stimulation, it can receive up to twelve ovulation cells that are then fertilized and that, of course, is a huge improvement compared to what we have so far. However, I ask the principle of why we are even limiting ourselves, whether there is in principle, and here in this law we will often and very much appeal to principles, because this really is the law as much about principles as about concrete solutions to medical ones. Is there a principle of possibility that we should not limit ourselves, that we do not limit the number of fertilizations, nor the number of procedures, or even that we do not limit ourselves for years, but in fact that our only restriction is the possibility of achieving the goal that needs to be achieved, and that is ultimately the birth of a child. On the other hand, another major step in this bill is the possibility of freezing embryos and egg cells, so absolutely positive, we consider the solution to keeping embryos and egg cells up to five years, for the next five years then at the possible cost of users. However, here I would like to stress and this provision actually shows how important it is that we end up here in the Assembly as soon as possible, and that he really lives as soon as possible because we and these elements of this law actually affect the future and future possibilities for the treatment of people who may not yet be trying to have children, perhaps they are not even aware that they have a problem. So, in fact every day is in some way a loss for future generations, for those who are just coming, for those who are just going to face this traumatic experience of inability to have a child on their own. Here I should just, for a moment, mention one element that also seems important to me in this law and should be kept in mind. So this is not only a law that solves the problem of treatment for infertility but also prevents the transfer of severe hereditary diseases to children. It's an important element of this law and I think that in any case when it's being discussed it should also be kept in mind. Now, Article 10 of this Bill which says that the right to medically assisted insemination has couples, as well as women who do not live in marriage or the extramarital community. This is Mr. Minister's praise in any case, it's one of the topics on which we at the HNS actively had something to say in the public debate and thought it was important. What seems particularly important to me is that it is crucial that we do not fall for it, do not be angry with the hollow arguments about the right of the child to father and mother. Of course it would be nice if all children could have a father and mother, but actually denying the right to have a child who doesn't have a father and mother we send a morbid message that those children didn't actually deserve to exist. What about single parents, then, what about children who don't have any parents, one very problematic message, a very dangerous message, and I'm glad we didn't buy that story in the preparation of this bill. However, respected ministers, we have yet another question here about this which we will eventually have to face and we will have to make some decisions, and eventually some decisions, given the expectations of our citizens who voted for the Kukurik coalition, which is the expectation that Croatia will take a step further into the modernity and openness of this country, the openness of this society, and this is the question whether they have the right to medically assisted insemination and women who are not infertile. I don't have or would like to reconsider any decision at this time, but it's certainly a debate that will come to light, it's a public debate, and it's something we have to think about and we need to keep in mind and we need to make decisions that are in line with our political worlds, and also with the reality of the world and the time in which we live. What is also particularly good is the abolition of this obligation of legal and various other psychological and psychotherapy counselling in the case of homologous insemination, it was one too... and it was already mentioned by the minister in fact a humiliating provision for all those who are part of this process. I would only mention one detail, Article 13, paragraph 6, so when it comes to counseling in the case of heterologous fertilisation. If I have a good interpretation if the health care facility is able to provide counselling then secure it, if it isn't then switch to another one but then the cost is transferred to the patient. I would suggest that a clean solution is made, so either the cost of consulting is always on the account of the system, or that the cost is always on the account of the user, so that we do not actually have the possibility of discrepancies of discrimination again and perhaps primarily as problems of the ambiguity of regulations and uncertainty of expectations in a situation of people who in themselves are difficult and problematic. Article 15. Right to gain insight into donor data. There is actually no solution that is absolutely correct or absolutely wrong. We at the HNS are willing to support at this point this variant therefore that there is a right to insight, but it is certain that we must be careful, because if it is established, we must specifically follow this topic, if it is found that the number of donations is falling then we must be prepared to find another solution. That's exactly what I'm stressing. So we have to monitor the situation and we have to be prepared if it shows up to some other solutions constantly considering the main goal. In that sense, I am asking you, Mr. Minister, that these various regulations, which are listed in the law, be prepared as soon as possible by you and your associates, because this whole process requires and quite a lot of preparation, and ultimately the institutions and citizens must be prepared, and I stress again every minute we lose is huge for those people who have problems becoming parents. It is also important, of course, that this record and the register so that the entire surveillance process but not in a negative sense, but in order to improve procedures and improvements are brought into a better situation. And in conclusion, this law really goes into the very core of everything that we are as humans, it's really not just medical, it's secularly important, it's fundamentally important, it's important and political and as far as political views are concerned. But what we have to understand here is that we are neither priests nor imam nor rabbis. We are here in this hall representatives of the citizens. And for us at HNS, our job is to provide all those rights and all those freedoms to our fellow citizens and ourselves, at the end of the day, which are possible with one single restriction, and these are the freedoms and rights of other citizens and citizens. It's the only thing that's our job here, and our world-wide, religious, cultural and all the other restrictions we're free to do in our own four walls whatever we want, but we don't have the right to impose them on anyone else at any time. Especially not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7564	Thank you, too, Your Honor, for the exposure of you and your club. This subject has been reported 5 corrections of incorrect allegations. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Željko Reiner is the first correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7565	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me correct a few false allegations. One is that it's about the ultimate role of this law. That's not true, because according to data, about 1.5 to 2% of children so far, and so far, you've been able to help fertilize, so even the ultimate liberalisation of this law would lead to a slightly larger number of children born and it doesn't really have anything to do with the ultimate policy. It has to do with individual problems. And absolutely every single one of the individuals who can't have children by physiological means is quite affected by it, but let's not use expressions that don't have a place there. The other thing that needs to be corrected is the fact that scientific research has shown that it is weaker Stimulation and production of up to three embryos over three cycles less harmful to women's health than 12 embryos in one cycle. [[Intruder: Time Honored Representative.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7566	Thank you, too. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Stjepan Milnkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it looks like Colman didn't understand your message that this subject is really being discussed with words that belong and mentioning hollow arguments, I really don't think it stands. So that's one part. But I would correct the inaccuracies of my colleague König who said that the state has been playing with people's lives for the past few years. That's incorrect, fellow. Well, the government passed after that '78 law. which had the name of the Law on Health Measures for the free birth of children approached the amendments and achieved the results which showed that it was in 2010. 24% more births and births and all other indicators. So, I say you play with people's lives. It is clear that the European Court of Justice has made it clear when life begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7568	Thank you, Your Honor. The next correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7569	Thank you. As far as I understand an esteemed colleague, and I want to correct the incorrect allegations these are not arguments hollowing the story a little morbid that a child must have a father and mother. This father-mother-child relationship is the foundation of this family society, this civilization, and we can't explain it by comparing single parents because that child had both father and mother. The children who lost their parents had a father and a mother. So, as you asked all of us to be careful if this is about human destiny, so I ask those who defend this extremely bad law to watch what they're saying because it's not about a morbid and hollow story, it's about an extremely life story and the right of a child to have both a father and a mother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7570	Thank you, Your Honor. The next correction to an incorrect quote is the esteemed representative Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Coleman, it's morbid to say that every child has a right to a father and a mother is just not incorrect, it's really and declassified to talk like that in this assembly. I'm asking you not to do it anymore. If you want to be liberal, then look up to the liberal government in Denmark and the social democratic government it inherited. It does not impose on people who believe that freezing human rights is a violation of human rights does not force them to finance it, and you want our money and money tens of thousands of Croatian citizens who think it is a violation of human rights to finance it anyway. Now, that's an intrusion of ideologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7572	Thank you very much. Next correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative and vice president of the House Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct quite certainly Mr. Coleman's incorrect claim that... The argument that the child needs a father like he said. [[You don't understand.]] I absolutely think that's incorrect, and I'm going to answer, or I'm going to deny it by countering it. And who gives you or who gives us the right to take away a child's child's own father, who gives us the right to take away the father he has the right through the law of the child. And I think that Mr. Representative has thus violated the provisions of at least two laws above all, the Family Law which speaks of marriage as a union of men and women, but also the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. I think I believe she unwittingly discriminated against men this way and reduced them to a level of things. And finally, Mr. Vice President, I am a child who grew up without a father. I've missed that my whole life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7574	Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. Next on behalf of the Croatian SDP club in the Croatian Parliament Igor Dragovan, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7575	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This law, which is first read in front of us on medically assisted insemination, is a law that regulates primarily infertility in women and couples and is primarily a medical law aimed at allowing women and couples the most modern treatment methods in the world to achieve parenthood. And that's the key to the whole story about this law. I wish we'd thought that way four years ago. In November 2008, as an opposition party, they put into the procedure the Law on Medical Aided Insemination and there was a big debate here in this home at which they heard really positive thoughts by almost all MPs on the left and on the right about the need for people who had problems with infertility to help, but when the vote came they said there is no help. This is not a matter of pre-election promise and this law is not a matter of pre-election, exclusive and the only issue of the coalition's pre-election promise in the last elections but of simple responsible behaviour towards society and citizens in the Republic of Croatia because you all know one fact very well, and that is to do a survey on the street today, and such serious polls have been made 2/3 of Croatian citizens and will always consider that those with infertility problems should be helped. This law does it. This law is well-determined, well-set, it introduces a golden standard in the treatment of infertility that we have very often talked about here in this Assembly and in the debate in 2009 when the current, current law on medically assisted fertilisation was passed, which is the freezing of embryos. It is also important to tell the citizens of Croatia, couples and women who are being treated for infertility that their actions under the new law will, when it is adopted, start over and try to compensate for what has not been done in the past 4 years and someone has lost some time. Four years in people looking for help is a long time. And in this sense, it is our obligation, and this obligation has been made to us by the citizens of Croatia on 4 December of last year, that is our obligation, and that is the obligation we received in the elections, and that is the responsibility we have received in the elections, in accordance with the most modern methods of treatment in Croatia and in Europe, to ensure that couples, couples, off-marriage, treat, or this law enables them to choose how they will be treated from infertility. It expands the framework and anyone can choose their own way of helping to cure infertility. There is also one more thing to say, and that is that today the percentage is mentioned here that almost 15%, that was when we spoke four years ago, probably that percentage is higher at this point, couples in Croatia have problems with infertility. This is, among other things, the consequence of what we think should be introduced into schools and what we talked about as a responsible government and responsible people here and the responsible majority of Parliament, it is a health education in schools where young people need to be educated in the best possible way to decide how they will go into life and is, and there are certain consequences that, years later, at the time you want to achieve parenthood, arise as a problem. And it's also tied up and I very much welcome it. Yes, this is one of the laws, which will never reach a consensus in society or in political society or here in Parliament, and that is a fact. But also, I believe in us in the SDP we believe that our obligation, responsibility, is, after all, that's what the voters told us again in the last elections, to lay the foundations and pass the law and propose the law here in the first reading and open a broad debate. We didn't break things over our knees, this debate is going on, said the minister for 80 days. Also now, after this first reading in Parliament until the second reading, a public debate will be set and even those liberals do not agree with some of the things in this law, but the responsible government, the minister must find a solution which, firstly, ensures treatment and secondly, does not cause too much controversy in society and I think that this bill is like that and I think we are on the right track. I'll remind you once again, there's been a lot of talk about how people need to be helped. In the two discussions that we had here in Parliament and in 2008 and 2009, and I believe that even today, such discussions will be because it is in everyone's best interest to provide treatment for infertile couples, for all those who have problems and to ensure that children come and are born. What I'd like to stress is, in the end, I'm appealing because there have been such unfortunate interpretations before, there's no need to be them now because I think we've all learned that. Children born in medically assisted insemination procedures are the same children as those born normally, and I don't think there's any need in this way to place the more difficult ones and beware of that. And finally, of course, the SDP club will support this law and we invite everyone else to join us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7576	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have two incorrect allegations on your exhibit. The first is Honored Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7577	A colleague named Dragovan said where lucky that a law like this was passed four years ago. I'm correcting it where and it's fortunate that it wasn't brought as it was written, because fellow Dragovan here is still about and that's what we're different about. Because this is what we're doing and we're trying to help couples, so a man and a woman living in a marriage community, not the same sex couples, because this law makes it possible, among other things. Allows between other things and the manipulation of traps, freezing, sales etc. In the end, what was in Britain could happen to be a donor, when it was eventually found out to be a father of 6,000 or 6 hundred children. Under this law, a child has the right to know after 18 years of his biological father. However, a biological father has no right to know who his child is. And that's what we're different about, because family is the foundation of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7578	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was requested by the respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a correction to Mr. Dragovan's incorrect quote. He said freezing the mattresses was a gold standard. But that's not true. This is about one ethically inadmissible procedure, because the freezing of mattresses for 5 or 10 years is actually a waste of physiological and biological and other properties. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7580	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next up for debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, Honored Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7581	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Union will be against this law for several reasons. One is, of course, a secular reason, because the Croatian Democratic Community is actually a party where democracy is deeply rooted, so that is one of the reasons. But I'm not going to talk here today about worldly differences, because I think it's something that you can and must talk about. But the fact is that this law has a number of other failures, leaves a series of unresolved issues, concerns, a lot of room for manipulations, arbitrary interpretations, bad use, etc. and, of course, it's like everyone said about a law that's extremely complex goes into deep ethical, moral, and other spheres. However, what I would say in a slightly different way than my colleague Komar said. True, we are discussing this law in a country where the vast majority of citizens plead as Christians on the one hand. So, I won't discuss the world-wide reasons at all, because the Croatian Bishop's Conference made it clear and defined the reasons. In addition to Christians, however, a significant number of citizens of this country are declared members of other confesions of Islamic etc. and we know that, in fact, all the religious communities together wrote a negative view of the bill. So, the fact is, if in one country most citizens think in a certain way we as representatives of these citizens, regardless of our own personal attitudes we would have to represent these citizens, so they chose us, so they chose the MPs, so they chose the government. Thus, we should reflect their attitude whether we personally feel that we or have a different attitude, etc. Therefore, and we are faced with a law that has won a great one if I want to be an ironic ecumenical effect because it has succeeded in achieving that all confessional communities are actually negatively expressed about it. But as I said, I will not speak at all about worldly matters, but I would like to say about the various situations listed in this Law that bring legal uncertainty into many areas and which would have to be resolved. One of the fundamental questions is, of course, that in these provisions on the freezing and donation of human embryos, the thing that can be possessed is very clear, the thing that can be alienated, the thing that can be held, and even, in some ways, almost traded. One of the important things is, to be clear, when it is stated that the methods of medically assisted fertilisation are the most important way of treating infertility. This is not about the way you treat, because you do not remove the cause of infertility. So that person remains infertile. Therefore, we believe that a law called the Law on Infertility Treatment should actually be passed and that citizens should then be entitled to full information and availability in a world of ethically acceptable and far more effective methods of treatment for infertility. And that would probably be some kind of approach to solving this problem. Now you might want to factor out a series of things. So, what, unfortunately, does the law not solve and should be resolved? The question of the fate of these frozen embryos, for example. Assuming a couple from the first attempt to give birth to a child as likely to return for the remaining 10. What happens after a 5-year period, if parents don't agree to donate their embryos and want to keep them, but let's just say they don't have the money for what's going on today with a lot of people who thought they could afford some things. Then I can't afford it anymore. What's gonna happen to them? So that's one of the things that's not solved in this. When it comes to the question of giving or giving of living things, then a written consent is required for parents to give up their right to a child at the expense of the necessary costs. What does that mean? It means actually selling. They'll get the money to give up a living thing. In Article 10, it is unclearly defined because the introductions do not state the nationality of the couple going to the proceedings, but this goes to the burden of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So what if foreign citizens come? Are we all going to pay for the procedure of foreign citizens? Lifetime, it was written, of course, on budget spending, for women up to 42 years old. However, there is no age limit in order to approach procedures, so it can be said that women with 60 years of pay and get a child. This existed in the old Italian law until 2004 and resulted in some of the media memories of bizarre situations that women of 60 and I don't know how old they were born. The law in Italy has changed in the meantime, and we are now coming to a situation where Italy has changed significantly earlier. We've got one problem where you talk about women without a male partner. And it is clearly stated that it is a woman who is not in the marriage and out of wedlock community. So she's either alone or in the same-sex community. However, how an objective infertility of a woman without a male partner can be established and this will be demonstrated if that woman does not have a regular sexual relationship with a male partner especially without any indication of the time interval, and we know in medicine that it is normally expected for 3 years and in married couples to declare that a married couple is infertile. Article 11 states that there should, of course, be no community of husband and wife, so the embryo can be made and frozen several years before the marriage or registration of the extramarital community. What if that relationship falls apart? The fate of a child so conceived is not defined at all. Outside marriage or mates must prove their condition. However, any woman on the other hand can approach it and no evidence is required for it. So it's a fairly inconsistencies. The law mentions in Article 12 on possible forms of natural family planning are entitled to notices, etc. However, this law does not address the issue of natural family planning at all, and it is actually strange why this provision was then introduced into the whole law at all. On the other hand, it is very interesting that Article 13 speaks of possible mental procedures even though they are always said to have no effect on psychics, etc. So it's one of the inconsistencies that's inside. Now we come to the fact that parents are bound by the age of 18 to meet a child with the fact that he has a biological father or mother different from them. It does not indicate who will verify that obligation. What I must say is that the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, which only interprets the application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and which is closely working with the UN Committee on Women's Rights, has not brought any interpretation of the medically assisted fertilisation, and a very small number today there are countries which are signatories of the Convention on the Rights of the Child which allow the right to know the identity of the donor, the majority is for anonymity. We are, we want to obviously count ourselves in this small number. What if the embryo does not come from any married couple, but from a single woman and an unknown donor, and then she gives up her embryos? What is the fate of this human being, that embryo? Article 21 prohibits the conclusion of an agreement or other forms of written or oral agreement on the donation of sex cells or embryos, although there is no penalty for it in criminal provisions. So it's completely unnecessary. Article 21 states that women or men who have donated have the right to compensation for the necessary expenses. So we're going to get more cash compensation for giving up our child, and all of this is paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. Is that, especially in this economic situation, an optimal thing? Article 23 speaks of the Committee for Medical Aided Insemination of the Health Institute, no expert on medical ethics, i.e. bioethical at all. After the birth of three children of the same biological parents, the sex cells are destroyed according to this proposal, and the remaining embryos are not to be donated. In other words, they must be destroyed, or killed. The collection of cells in Article 31 does not say what will happen, Article 31 prohibits surrogate motherhood, and Article 32 prohibits the cloning of human beings but penalties are exclusively monetary, I dare say symbolic, and yet if we compare ourselves with some European countries, for example in France, it is punishable by a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. We have a modest fine when you do it. Article 33, in the event of the death of both parents who become the owner of frozen embryos, who decides on their donation, destruction, do legal heirs have the right to frozen embryos because they were property of the deceased, shall we leave embryos with will? So a whole series of bizarres opens up with that. The law does not regulate the situation of divorce, or the disintegration of the extramarital community. What about frozen embryos? What if a woman wants to use these embryos and a man doesn't want to? Is the burden of matrimonial property something that needs to be shared? There's nothing really about this law. But there is an article 34 that can stimulate the ovulation of a minor female who is not physically and mentally mature if it is expected to be used later and how in such a situation it does not require the written consent of parents or legal guardians, and let’s say that when that child goes to the tonsil surgery, then it needs such consent. But when a child is immaturely determined to go to artificial insemination, then no one should sign it or agree to it. In particular, Article 36 is one cumbersome article, namely in the introductory wording of the draft law and the reasoning is that the law regulates the protection of the embryo and prohibits the import and export of embryos. However, there is no such provision in the text of the law itself. I remind you the law is just the text of the law, no introductions, no comments, nothing, the text of the law. In the text of the law, there is therefore no ban on importing and exporting embryos, which creates absolutely terrible opportunities. Article 37 relates to the use of new medically assisted fertilisation procedures, etc. It is not known at all what these methods are, it is not stated that, for example, the national committee appointed by the Minister of Health in which they may actually be persons who are, for example, owners or employees of private polyclinics involved and will be in conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is not about what I think is not good at all, and then Article 50 speaks about the National Commission for the Treatment of Infertility, and that I am actually going back to what is originally the law on the treatment of infertility, but only a small segment. It would be logical, then, to actually talk about all kinds of treatment for infertility. Therefore, a whole series of things in this law have not been solved. What is also to be mentioned, however, are financial aspects. It's claimed it won't cost anything. It will, it will cost a lot. We know that somewhere the average cost of a budget burden per woman can reach about 50,000 kuna, however, and for a part it is foreseen in the budget. However, for a whole series of aspects, funds are not provided for, nor for the cryo-nutrition of sex cells, nor for the freezing of embryos, nor for cryo-nutrition, nor for premium genetic diagnostics that are largely expensive, which cost several thousand euros, nor for the tests of the reserve of ovaries that also cost, so all of this is actually a significant cost. There's no mention of the fate of existing traps that exist now frozen, no idea how many there are. The numbers vary, some claim 6 grand, some 8 grand, some 12 grand. What will happen to them is not mentioned at all, but there is no mention of how they will be financed if they will be held, how they will be financed further. Who's gonna pay for that? State budget. This significant asset costs So these are all the remarks we actually have. [[Intruder: Time Honored Representative.]] And especially once again, I would like to draw attention to the complete lack of criminal provisions, so some only fines are poorly provided. There is no possibility of prison sentences, regardless of the severity of serious offences or criminal offences, no severe punishment is provided for repeating a criminal offence or for organised groups that would act there. No penalty for the temporary or permanent withdrawal of a licence for the work of health care professionals who violate the provisions is prescribed, no penalty for making a false declaration to a public notary shall be prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7582	Thank you very much. We have two incorrect allegations on your exhibit. First is Honorable Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Reiner, I'm sorry I tried the replica, but since we haven't changed our Rules of Procedure yet, then it's gonna have to be like this without the right to answer. So I'm correcting the assumption that our job here is to represent the citizens and, in that context, to build religious fences into the laws that we make. This first part of course works, our job is to represent the citizens, but our job is to pass world laws. All religious institutions thus have their own laws, which then prescribe certain conduct for their followers. It's our job to make world laws that we don't force anyone to do anything by breaking the principles, but we allow all of us to have freedom of choice if they don't do harm to others, and that's exactly what we're doing with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7584	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote was reported by the respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7585	Thank you. It is an incorrect and totally unacceptable the thesis of the esteemed counterpart Reiner so that any religion and any religious basis count should be the basis for decision-making in the Supreme Legislative Body of the Croatian State, which is a secular state, separated from the church and which cannot be treated in any way by so much-called religious law. There are countries that equate worldly and churchly rights, therefore, but then it is known what countries are and what is thought in the European circle of civilization about such a way of functioning of the state. We fall into school debates, we lead to absurdity, and the question is very simple, are we restricting someone's freedom to enter the fundamental human right that is above all other rights, that's the freedom of man to decide life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7586	Thank you very much. Health Minister Rajko Ostojic reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much to all those who have participated in the debate so far, and I especially thank Mr. Agent Reiner for giving up the world's debate and I don't doubt that you will all continue to do so. But my colleague Reiner is a doctor like me, so I don't understand "it's not about treated infertility, because a woman remains infertile," amazing logic, amazing. You have a patient with stomach cancer, surgery, liver metastases, he's sick, he's diagnosed. Now, we're not gonna treat him? We're not gonna treat him, so he's still diagnosed with stomach cancer. If that logic were to be quoted by Agent Reiner "it is not about treating infertility, because the woman remains infertile", then unfortunately I would kindly ask you to address our doctorate as follows, it is not about treated stomach cancer and should not be treated with stomach cancer because it remains a diagnosis of stomach cancer after we operate on it. The patient has a metastasy in the liver. It's incredible logic. Almost and close... The provisions on freezing "The law unfortunately does not solve the fate of frozen embryos". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Three questions, when did they start freezing embryos in Croatia? Who was the minister at the time? And where's the frozen embryo register? Three questions, three answers. Google it. The freezing of embryos in Croatia began in the 1990s. Who was the minister? Of course. Where's the register? It doesn't exist. Be careful. Be careful. "The law doesn't protect embryos for five plus five years." Yes, the law quite clearly, this law protects embryos better than the existing law and takes care of embryos. How? By law, gentlemen of the MPs, which some of you adopted, I was against, the existing law did not regulate until the end of freezing embryos. However, I can return three embryos. You know what happens in practice? Mrs. Ana Anic and her couple, decided to return two embryos to her husband. The question is what happened the last few months with the third embryo. And that's why, in accordance with best European practice, we're returning two embryos. This law protects, I stress, better protected embryos than the previous laws of my predecessor and all of you who voted for that law. Better. Yeah, he's been protective for 5+5 years. Knowledge changes in medicine at an exponential, explosive rate of 30% in three years, four. So in ten years, the law, the medical science and the profession will change so much that theoretically all embryos will be exploited, why not. Theoretically. Start positive, I'm sure in your life you've always been in, not against. For, this law for, this law for, to treat infertility, not against. Mr. Representative Reiner is a European and world authority in treating hypercholesterolaemia among other things, cardiology, hypercholesterolemia, so increased fat. Ten years ago, I taught my students that it was the top value of cholesterol 7.0, so that value fell to 6.2, to 5.6, now it's worth 5.0. So in 10, 15 years, it's worth it because science has progressed, it's changed. So let us, over a period of 10 years, do it in gastroenterology, even in legal science, without speaking in active medical science, part of technology, so you know where we live. Let it change in 10 years in all other fields of medicine, not just hyper... Of course, there are bad voices that say cholesterol fell from 7 to 5 because of the pharmaceutical industry, because of profits, due to the spread of the pharmaceutical industry and doctors. [[You don't understand.]] I don't believe that. I trust authority like Agent Reiner and society, but let you trust then my gynecologists who wrote this law, embryologists, biologists, ethicians. Let other fields of medicine spread their knowledge as well as, for example, hyperlipoprotenia. Life of yes, clinical guidelines exist. I do gastroenterology, we treat our patients with hepatitis C, for example, like the whole world. The age of 65. Because we know how long it runs to cause the virus, which is unfortunately to be caused if we don't cure it. And a whole series of diagnosiss we're setting up clinical guidelines of life and so on here. Finland, all the time we've been calling Scandinavia, she's 40 years old. But we know, gentlemen, that the biological age and the chronological age are not the same. That's why this law protects women's health because we're reducing their hyperstimulation, reducing our citizens' hyperstimulation to premature menopause and, of course, protecting biological and understanding chronological age. Therefore, the age of life, as Agent Reiner says, is bizarre, amazing. I quote: "How can infertility of women be determined?", finished quote by Agent Reiner. Gynecology is the fifth year of medicine. I ask internal medicine, but I am convinced that this question is almost for, if not for specialist, that's what I told MP Milinovic on the board, and then for the sub-specialist. Everyone who didn't know how to answer that question would have to take it down on the exam, grade one, sit down. Article 23, I quote bizarreness. I'd like to know what will happen if, for example, I quote Agent Reiner, a couple, a wife or wife, dies, what happens to that embryo. I'm going back to my first question, in the '90s, it started with the freezing of embryos, who was the minister known to be. Unfortunately, in those 15 years, unfortunately, some couples are likely to have died. I wish that question had been resolved at that time and that it had been discussed and thought about such a quote of bizarreness. It's not bizarre when people die. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, colleagues and colleagues, this law protects embryos better than before, this is the best medical law of Europe, protects the health of women and children, and believe me, many European countries will look up to this law. I'd like to think about it in the '90s. Any diagnosis, whether she was hyperlipoprotenia means increased fat, whether she gastritis, was an ulcer, was a treatment of infertility. I'm going to be totally personal, I'm going to do it every year because I care about my health, and I don't feel comfortable for 24 hours, I'm afraid of what my findings will be. I admit it. I'm expecting a hit because of course I don't know what I'm going to get. Now enter into the soul, enter into the soul according to Tommy Aquinish, who distinguishes three souls: a vegetative, emotional, and rational soul, enter into the soul of those men who are treated from the diagnosis of infertility. Fear, tension, sickness, and desire exists, desire exists, desire to cure you from infertility, ulcers, hyperlipoprotenia, anything. Now that's your mission, ladies and gentlemen. Help, help, help all those who have chosen you. Help patients treated with gastritis, infertility, hyperlipoproteinaemia. It's your mission, and my mission is simple. To all those who have a diagnosis to provide the best medical practice. I'll only quote you two letters, and I've got thousands of them, pro et contres, of course. Dear Mr. Minister, I am suffering from stomach cancer and I thank you for the latest medicines for the treatment of stomach cancers on the list of medicines. Second letter. Your Honor, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, this one's with the esteemed. We suffer from infertility, and on the other hand, my parents are one of breast cancers, and the other of colon cancers have cured, unfortunately, their disease due to the progress of medicine. We thank you all for providing us with the latest cytostatics, the latest therapy. My parents, but we're sorry no one's made it possible for us so far. [[Intruder Leko: Dear Ministers...]] I ask you to help those who have chosen you, ladies and gentlemen representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7588	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. There have been four incorrect allegations reported to your presentation. Let's go with the first correction. Honorable representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7589	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said this law on artificial insemination that cures infertility. However, your specialists who wrote this Law in Article 4 say that artificial insemination only comes into consideration when a specialist diagnoses the infertility of treatment for infertility. It's an article 4 of your same law. Therefore, I am not a doctor from this, but at least logically speaking this actually says that artificial insemination is not being treated, on the contrary that it is just coming, stepping in and can be applied when diagnosed here I am reading the impertinence of the treatment of infertility. And then from that aspect, what Professor Reiner said is absolutely correct. Of course, it is also true that we have to law on the scale of infertile couples, that we must express solidarity with them, but I doubt that this is exactly the way to measure them. It seems more to the extent actually the owner of private clinics for artificial insemination that wrote this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7590	Thank you very much. The next correction was reported by the respected representative Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7591	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister has very eloquently actually brought up a whole series of things. However, when he quoted me, he usually quoted the beginning of the sentence, not the follow-up, and it should always be quoted, and so this treatment when I suggested that it be the Law on ways to treat infertility that would actually incorporate ways of treating infertility as it is said, we have no law, and then this form of complementarity could be placed inside. But what I have to say is I agree with the Honorable Minister. A matter of medical definition, which is actually infertility, which is why I said so. It's known very well, very well that it's infertility. That's very well known. Therefore, it is because you are very well - known that it is completely unclear to establish this in a person who has no sexual relations because it is well - known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7592	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7593	... Mr. Minister, I am correcting your claim as incorrect when you have found that this law is if I have properly registered the best law, and even in Europe because it protects the life and health of a woman. [[Specially enabled.]] It can't be the best, because protecting the life of one person, not protecting the right to the life of another human being, and the embryo is a human being is not something we can boast about. This is really about our different worlds, about what is and what is not a living being and when life begins. And the Hippocratic oath reminds us that life begins with conception and that we are obliged to protect it from that moment on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7594	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next correction to an incorrect quote was reported by a representative of the respected Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7595	The minister said that medical science will advance over the next 10 years, exponentially. I want to correct it, not exponentially, because neither the minister nor I as an agent, nor are we all here Nostradamuses to predict the course of development of medical science or other sciences. I also want to correct the minister and I hope that he was wrong when he said that after those 10 years all these 12 embryos, that is, these 10 or 9 which will be frozen will be used. It is an extremely bad message that is related to this Law, because I do not believe that a married couple who is being treated for infertility, a couple outside of a marriage community or a business capable woman who is in another community or who wants to have her own in view of this existing Plan 21, who, fortunately, will not have all 12 children for all 10 years, whether male or female. I repeat, the child should also be entitled to have the right to father and mother and family.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7596	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of reported corrections to an incorrect quote. We're going to discuss clubs. Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So here I agree that we should not discuss the principles and principles of the world when we are discussing the proposal of this Law, but I am also of the opinion that we should not discuss either what someone is and when working in the past about medically assisted insemination, but rather discuss the proposal of this Law that today is in front of us in some belief that science is really going a great step forward and that this government is now in advantage of someone before we already have a medically helpful insemination of some new and different knowledge. I think that focus should remain on it, I think that maybe we should ignore both cholesterol and bile for a moment and everything else that we have started talking about and that we finally parliamentary representatives are doing or starting to carry out our mission in the same way as the Minister of Health does to help, help and help in the only way and with the only tool that we have as Parliamentarians, which is by pointing out what we are ultimately not clear and being more than satisfied with what is really the first reading of this law and that we have time to get answers to the questions that bother us. We agree that it is necessary to amend the provisions of the applicable law in favour of all those who, for health reasons, are unable to achieve medically assisted fertilisation. For this reason, by supporting this bill in that part, we do not want to enter its medical science by respecting the profession, expertise and all established medical knowledge. We also support each individual’s decision to decide on the basis of his ethical and religious principles what and how he will do to satisfy his parental desire. However, there are several things in this bill that are not fully defined, which leave a lot of room for doubt and concern. They need to be discussed in order to become more transparent, clear and defined, and that is exactly the mission that we have to accomplish, and that is our mission to ask as parliamentarians, and that those who pass the law on them adequately and answer them. We have heard a lot today about all the articles, but what I am personally plagued is Article 7(6), which speaks of homologous fertilisation and states that the remaining embryos that have not been introduced into the sex organs of women are kept on the burden of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for up to 5 years. After a period of 5 years, they shall be entangled with the consent of donors for the purpose of achieving pregnancy and birth to the beneficiary of the right to medically assisted fertilisation that consents to such a procedure. Why after five years? What if donors decide that after a year or two if they have had a child in medically assisted fertilization they no longer want to have children, and the traps are being deposited somewhere else? Why should it wait five years and five years for these traps to be on the burden of the state budget and only after five years would parents have the right to say whether or not they want to donate as such. In paragraph 7, the remaining egg cells shall be kept on the budget burden for 5 years, after which they shall be destroyed. However, we do not know anything about traps that happen to them after a certain deadline. Article 10(2) and Article 10(4), I'm not going to quote them, I assume you all have a proposal for this law ahead of you, if we have defined that infertility is a disease so why set up financial restrictions? Isn't every single person talking to himself? I think it's because that's exactly what we were listening to earlier from Mr. Secretary. Suppose that experience in treating infertility has led to some of these optimal solutions and frameworks as far as the profession is concerned. We first touch the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with this kind of restriction regarding years. In particular, Article 8(1) of the Convention explicitly states that everyone has the right to respect their private and family life and that public authorities will not interfere in the exercise of that right unless it is necessary in a democratic society for the sake of the interests of national security, public order and peace or economic well-being of the country and to prevent riots or crimes in order to protect health or morals or to protect the rights and freedoms of others. This is where we could get caught up in this for health protection. However, if a woman is mentally healthy at age 42, she is able to carry out pregnancy as well as to the end and has the possibility of having a healthy child who has the right to deny it? Isn't it really the only one on her and the doctor who leads her to decide on the possible consequences for her health, for the benefit of the child, but also on the possible good outcome? Such a restriction also calls into question its constitutionality. Namely, Article 16. The constitution of freedoms and rights says that freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedom and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health. Any restriction on freedom or rights must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case. I think this is exactly what we talked about before. This Regulation shall enter into Each constitution guarantees respect and legal protection for his personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor. All things said support the suspicion that age-limiting is unnecessary if we stick to the idea that infertility is like such a disease. How much of this formulation we take into account exclusively the cost of the state budget then it is worth declaring and in the 6 principles so often mentioned, perhaps adding the seventh – the principle of savings. Just as I have already said in Article 10(4), we are again taking care of this same savings of the state budget by limiting the number of attempts to treat infertility, and all the while we are talking about how we should rise above some personal attitudes, personal beliefs, and think only about the welfare of those couples and those who want to gain parental satisfaction. So let's rise above it, accomplish our mission and really help these people realize their parenthood. We have already talked about analizing the number of procedures on the burden of the state budget after the birth of one child, which does not support the right of infertile persons to another child to have other citizens and citizens in Croatia. Such a provision introduces financial restrictions and social separation instead of medical ones, thus creating a significant part of the population that will not receive optimal and complete treatment because it will come into a situation that the simple continuation of treatment will not be able to provide itself financially. This law could be talked about very much has a terrible lot of concerns, but the most misunderstandings this law for us laborers causes in that part of the donation of embryos. If we have found that life begins with conception, then donating the embryos is actually adoption of the child. At least that's how we look at it, and that's the stumbling block I'm looking for answers to, and we want to get an answer to that very question. If, by any chance, before the Law on Medical Breeding was passed, the Family Law in which both the procedure and the way and the right of the child to adopt the child would then assume that this Law on Medical Insemination would be anywhere more clear and understandable in that part of the donation of the child, i.e. the donation of the child, I will translate it. Is the reason the Minister of Health has promised that the law will be passed within 100 days, so by the case, he before the law, I don't know that. Family law is the mother of a child who gave birth to him, and the father of a child is a man who is married to his mother at that time of birth to a child or an extramarital community. There is a problem that must be considered because of all those young people who, for eighteen, nineteen, or possibly twenty years of life, will list the donor register and look for the names and last names of their biological parents. Does the law really have to impose on parents to tell their children that they are not their biological parents? The minister was on a round table where, on which a mother who is in the process, a woman who is in with her partner in the medical procedure of medical help insemination said this way: "The partner and I are so struggling to have a child that we simply don't have, and we create a family, and we simply have no intention of destroying that family after eighteen years." These are things that this law still has to say a lot. Whether the letter of the law must be determined in the part where fate is determined, not only by a child but also by two families as such, but also by a man who is in the most sensitive years of his life, because this law says he is eighteen years old. That's the question, here's what this law has to solve, among other things. Now you have to think about the future consequences because by raising your hand for the law we have now, the bill on the table needs to be held accountable, I just have to. This responsibility is the mission of parliamentary representatives, and that responsibility must be borne by each parliamentary representative for himself. We therefore propose that paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 15 be deleted on the grounds that the International Convention on the Rights of the Child is used here as an argument and the right to preserve the constituents of its own identity. However, although many European countries are signatories to the same convention do not view anonymity as contrary to the Convention and have found a way to guarantee the anonymity of donors because the practice has shown that there is no donation in countries where anonymity is not guaranteed. Paragraph 4 of Article 39 should be deleted or recast in such a way that the conditions for the work of health institutions are adapted to the real situation, i.e. to reduce the number of specialists of human reproduction and the master of biologists required to carry out a number of procedures annually in those institutions or to provide for an appropriate period of time for adaptation. We've heard that before, I mean from the Academy of Reiner, something on the trail of that question. According to the current conditions, only one or two health institutions meet these criteria which will lead to new waitings and impasses for patients and patients who, as we have already established, wait too long as their reproductive age passes. We said the clock was ticking that this law needed to be passed as soon as possible for the benefit of all those who wanted to become parents. In accordance with Article 50(2), paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: In particular, it is important to ensure the participation of persons from different health institutions, institutions, clinics and clinical centres engaged in human reproduction in order to prevent the imposition of business interests by only one of those institutions. We're really asking the minister to take into account everything he's heard until the second reading. We often hear from him in the media that we Parliamentarians carry out our mission and make amendments, make suggestions, make suggestions. Also, this bill is in public debate for all those who are interested in it, and I only sincerely hope that by the second reading, the minister will really take into account everything that anyone cares about to make couples in medically assisted fertilisation really do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7598	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 11 o'clock and one minute for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Thank you very much. Following the debate, respected representative Vojislav Stanimirovic reported on behalf of the SDSS club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7599	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Today, the Law on Auxiliary Insemination is on the agenda, and I would like to look back on the content of this law, more on some kind of depletion that's being run here. I think the proposal for this Law on Medical Aided Insemination is that it has already been heard more than once today that this is a alignment with EU legislation, and this statement by a colleague which confirms its compliance with the acquis we will hopefully see in the course of the second reading and the public debate whether it is so or not. Reproductive law is one of the fundamental rights of every woman and man and it is clear to all of us here, but also to the applicable law on medical fertilisation from 2009 and 2011, certain conditions have been laid down for the exercise of the right to medical insemination but at the same time the need to amend certain provisions of the applicable law for the benefit of persons who, for health reasons, have not been able to grow old medically assisted insemination. Today, medical science and technology enables the use of new, perfect and more demanding forms of medical aid in the treatment of infertility. This proposed law opens up wider space and opportunities, gives opportunity to those who decide to do so, means only those who decide to do so, to use their reproductive rights and rights. The state is there to help them like we advocates who pass laws. There are also those who do not support and oppose this law, but those who oppose it can still benefit from the fertilising methods that are acceptable to them or do not have to subject themselves to the aided fertilization unless their ideological and worldly attitudes permit them to do so. Infertility is statistically affecting every 6th pair in the Republic and this knowledge is surprising for all very often, it is thought of couples that are hard to accept. Women and men are very often disappointed, sad, broken, angry, lost because they do not know which way and who to turn to first. They often need psychological help, support, good and encouraging information, because the treatment and diagnostic procedures ahead affect their entire intimate world. They must be prepared very often for long - term treatment as frequent failures that this treatment carries and often brings new disappointments and leads them to the difficult mental conditions with which some couples find it difficult to deal with, because the desire for parenting is a source of desire and need. A variety of medically assisted fertilisation procedures have been used for decades, and some have been perfected only in the last two decades, so it may be important to list here that it is interuteral insymination, out-of-body fertilisation, intercytoplasmic microinjection of sperm, freezing and defrosting of sex cells, sexual tissues, and then at the end of the embryos, transmission of sexual cells and embryos into the ovum. I think it should be added to the uterus if the ova are not in good physical condition and this issue of freezing embryos, what does this method that is most discussed today mean? It is clear that when an out-of-body fertilisation procedure is given two or more virtual embryos that the excess embryo is stored by the procedure of controlled freezing, vitrification to minus 169 degrees can be stored for later embryotransfers. The freezing and defrosting process itself is strictly controlled in special laboratory containers stored in liquid nitrogen to avoid damage or loss of embryos or changes in biogenetic material of embryos. That's a very important point. The defrosting and new embryotransfers are working on the need for couples when they request their use and when the gynecologist prepares the uterus mucous membrane to accept embryos. It is also important to note here that all derived embryos are not suitable for controlled freezing and defrosting, and this process does not have to survive up to 30% of embryos. The level of success of the medically assisted fertilisation procedure is higher in younger women due to good hormonal balance, and significantly declines after 38 years of life. The right to medically assisted insemination on the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry as we have seen here, according to this bill, has women until the age of 42. I don't know why it's so big, and it might be good to think about whether this deadline is enough or to explain why it's set to that limit. This legislative proposal determines that in the selection of procedures medically aided infertile decisions by spouses and extramarital partners, or a full-time businesswoman who does not live in a marriage or marriage community, the treatment so far has been unsuccessful and without... and who, given the age of life and the general health condition, is capable of parental care for a child together with a doctor who specializes in gynaecology with a narrow specialization in human reproduction. And now there is a homologous fertilization that is given priority because it uses its own sex cells that can be hormonally controlled by women until ovulation to achieve a greater number of mature egg cells and thus fertilize the maximum of 12 cells that allow and predicts this law. This protects women’s health and prevents her from reexposing new procedures. All users of the right to medically assisted fertilisation are obliged to declare in writing that they wish to fertilise up to two or more ova. If declared, more than two egg cells are introduced into the sex organs of the woman, two fertilised egg cells are introduced, and the remaining embryos or egg cells are frozen. The legal proposal also provides for heterogeneous fertilisation when it is not possible from medical indications to provide its own sex cells, but also to use donor sex cells or donated substitutes from other persons who have given written consent to it. In European countries, we see in the law that 19 members of European countries have a special Law on Medical Aided Insemination, and in 8 countries in Europe these procedures are regulated under other laws. This bill stipulates that heterological insemination should have a conversation with a master of psychology and a doctor of psychiatry who should perform marriage mates and when they should be familiar with the possible psychological effects of the medical insemination process. The counseling of marriage mates is done by a master’s degree in psychology and a specialist’s doctor who issues confirmation that it has been done. In Germany, there is a reference to heterologous fertilisation and psychosocial counselling in a child’s unfulfilled desire in married couples, especially infertile women considered desirable and beneficial. And the answer to the question is what should be achieved by psychological counselling and at which point it should be carried out. This trail should look for similar solutions in Croatia. From a legal point of view, the law stipulates that in the institution where fertilisation is being assisted to carry out and talk with the magistrate of the right of the institution and when a certain certificate is issued for it. In this regard, legal counselling in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child is introduced to future parents who receive a child who is helped by fertilisation that a child, at the age of 18, should learn about his conception, assisted insemination, and who his biological parents are, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The proposed law also contains provisions on the State Registry on medically assisted fertilisation, which the Ministry of Health regulates that a person conceived and born with the help of medically assisted fertilisation, donated seed cell and donated ovary and... with a cover,... [[You don't understand.]] has the right to take into account this and the data register of conception of all data relating to its biological origin, including information on the identity of the donor of the semen cell or the donor of the egg cell, i.e. the donor of the embryo. [[You don't understand.]] This has been read from the law, and it is important to stress that in some countries, literature, the right to see the identity of seed cell donors, egg cells or embryo donors has led to a reduction of voluntary donors, which will only give us time and practice to show how it will affect the knowledge of this. The information on the donor of the sex cells or embryos is intended to be provided to the legal representative of the person, to the physician of the person if it goes on their request and to be approved by the National Commission. And also the right to gain insight into the register and data on donors has a court and a state body. It is important to stress that the professional secret guarantee of protection of the privacy of procedures is the medically assisted fertilisation and donation of sex cells or embryos that this law provides. This legislative proposal also contains provisions on health institutions that have the power to carry out medically assisted fertilisation, which must be highly equipped to carry out assisted fertilisation, and we have heard that there are only two such institutions here and that these jobs must not be allowed to be carried out in inadequate hospitals or clinics. This will hopefully be regulated through this legislative proposal and provisions concerning the National Commission and through the State Registry. The most common and controversial question is what is happening here and what will happen to remaining embryos that have not been introduced into the sex organs of the woman, and it is said that after the 5-year period, the substitutes with the consent of donors are donated to achieve pregnancy and birth to another beneficiary of the right to medically assisted fertilisation that consents to such a procedure. And now a dilemma is being put in place, given that the state cares for the first 5 years, and the other 5 years if the spouses are able to pay for saving these embryos, is there any concern that those who do not have the financial resources to pay for it, and have failed in the first 5 years to secure a medical insemination and give birth to a newborn whether they are punished because they have no money and their traps cannot be kept for the next year if they have not paid for it. Finally, the bill foresees and calls for conscience, I see that rarely whoever said something about it, that health workers and unhealthy workers who should conduct or participate in the conduct of procedures medically help fertilize that they have the right to appeal for conscience because of their ethical, religious and moral views, or beliefs, and refuse to carry out the process of medically helping fertilisation or to participate in this process. So that's what people think primarily about health and health care workers if they don't want to take part in this business as part of their religious, ethical, and moral reasons. The national commission of medically assisted insemination should serve in view of the composition of nine members where one is a representative of the ministry, then one representative of law and a representative of psychology or psychology in heterogeneous insemination, one master of biology. And it is important here to note that it might be good for three gynecology specialists with a narrow specialization in human reproduction to be from different institutions that are normally educated in this area due to possible abuses in medically assisted fertilisation. And there's one representative of the National Bioethical, so we also have this committee in the field of medical ethics and one representative in front of the patient association. And I think that this State Registry medically help fertilization that it will regulate all possible abuses and manipulations because it will actually record everything about aiding insemination, child births, then the donor of sex cells, embryos and the state registry counts as preventing it from issuing a unique identification number of any abuse and possible abuse with frozen traps. In the national register, these data are kept permanently, so there are no restrictions, which is also good because of the age and duration of life of man and the SDSS club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7600	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next Club of Representatives at the Croatian Assembly of the HDSSB and Honorable Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7601	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. And today, years after the oath ceremony, many doctors in memories are proudly and in their minds echoing the words of the Hippocratic oath, among them and those who say: At the time I enter into the medical profession I solemnly promise to place my life in the service of humanity. In my duties to the patient, I will not be affected by any consideration of religion, nationality, race, political or class membership. I will absolutely respect human life from the very beginning. Even under threat, I will not allow my medical knowledge to be exploited against the laws of humanity. I promise this solemnly, freely, invoking my honor. These provisions of the oath that we have made obliging each of us doctors to make no distinction between our patients, patients for no reason or by any standard, and the Hippocratic oath in particular emphasizes our promise I will absolutely respect human life from the very beginning or under threat will not allow my medical knowledge to be exploited contrary to the laws of humanity. Today we are discussing a bill that in the Croatian public is challenging, challenging and will certainly continue to raise many doubts both in professional medical circles and among people who are not professional, but are humanly interested in what legal solutions we will ultimately bring. In my debate today, I will not deliberately silence one very important fact, the fact that this legal proposal has caused countless debates in church circles as well. And no matter what anyone thinks about it, it is neither to be lightly ignored nor to go over it with caution. Given the fact that the believers in Croatia make a convincing majority of the population not to think or discuss and the position of the church in Croatia is unthinkable and inadmissible. By respecting everyone's right to their own choices, their own beliefs and life's worldly horizons, the adoption of legal solutions imposing the will of the minority is not at least in the spirit of fundamental democratic principles. Today's proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation speaks about an area related to a number of ethical issues. And the fact is that many of these ethical issues are related not only to the moral teaching of the church but also to the basic principles of the medical profession contained in the said Hippocratic oath. The fact is that modern science has reached today's ever-inconceived limit. But it is in this fact that there is also an indescribable danger of creating an illusion of unlimited power and science that, instead of ultimately helping people, can very easily begin and work for the benefit of their own harm both human being and human race. Today's bill of law also speaks in favour of enabling the implementation of technically possible, but ethically often inadmissible procedures that violate the dignity of the human being itself. I already mentioned the church. She rejects artificial insemination in her moral science. From the church’s point of view, however, it is even more morally unacceptable that artificial insemination procedures are often related to the destruction of the embryo, so human life at the very beginning. Similar dilemmas are found in many other countries, including in those countries with a tradition similar to ours, such as the majority Catholic countries such as Italy and Austria. Legal solutions on this issue in these countries represent some kind of compromise, in principle allowing artificial insemination with restrictions that seek to reduce damage. One of the basic problems that triggers this current bill is the fact that in seeking the best legal solution, care must first and foremost be taken into account about the interest and protection of the rights of the child. In the opening part of this proposal, the legislator of the law already sentences how, I quote: "This legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe in particular, stressing three directives that 2004/23, 2006/17 and 2006/86." I made this point on purpose. You'll see why later. It is also stated that this bill confirms consistency in respect of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine, and that it builds up provisions on the protection of human rights and prohibitions of cloning of human beings. It also states how this Law respects the provisions of Article 7(1) of the first UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which prescribes that he has a child, I quote: "How far is the right to know who his parents are?" However, the proposal for this Law states what it is harmonized with, but it does not say what this and this bill is not in line with, but in the least spoken of. Why does the legislator when he is already talking about the Convention on the Rights of the Child not only mention the provisions of the same and the Convention which inter alia oblige the States and their institutions to quote: "In the first place they take care of the interests of the child, and that the right of the child is not only to know their parents but also to enjoy their care, but also the right of the child to grow with both father and mother and to enjoy the care of both, and not just one parent." And what do we find in this bill? Article 10(3) provides for a provision: "There is also a full-time, non-marriage, non-marriage, non-marriage, non-marriage, non-marriage-free, non-marriage-marriage-free, non-marriage-marriage-free, non-marriage-marriage-free, non-marriage-marriage-free, non-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage-marriage." Where is this respect for the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the first order of taking care of the child's interest and his right to not only know his parents and enjoy his care and both parents' care but also to grow up with both father and mother. Why is it silenced that this same Convention on the Rights of the Child is based on four general principles, of which the third principle explicitly states, that "in making all decisions or implementing procedures affecting the child or children as a group, the most important must be the child's well-being and that this applies both to decisions taken by the government's administrative or legislative bodies and to decisions taken by the family." Should the Proposer of this Law also be reminded of the provision of Article 16 of the third UN General Declaration on the Rights of the Man, which states that, I quote: "Family of the Natural and Fundamental Social Unit and has the right to protect society and state." Did the Proposer of this Law also take care of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? In Article 21(1), everyone has the right to live. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No one shall be subjected to any form of abuse or without his or her consent to medical or scientific experiments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The family is under special protection This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is everyone's duty to protect children and powerless persons. And in this proposal for a law, in the mentioned article 10 of the third paragraph, a desirable and good solution for raising a child is to grow up with only one parent, with a mother without a father. However, the provision of this Article in paragraph 10 of this proposal does not conflict with the mentioned Convention on the Rights of the Child and the General Declaration on Human Rights. It is contrary to the provisions of the same bill. In fact, Article 11 of this proposal of the law in the first sentence is explicitly stated: "Marriage or extramarital community must exist at the time of the introduction of sex cells or embryos into a woman's body." Unfortunately, this is not the only dilemma that this bill encourages in public, and so do we at the HDSSB Representatives' Club. One of the most controversial provisions concerns Article 7 of this proposal, which defines how, unlike the law so far, it is permitted to assist in fertilising up to 12 ova that can be fertilised, and of the resulting 12 fertilised ova, i.e. no more than two, exceptional and three complications are allowed in the sexual organs of the woman. Directly related to these disputed provisions is both fate and further dealing with the remaining traps. Namely, this bill provides for the remaining 10 or 9 procedures to medically assist the fertilisation of the embryos obtained, which are not introduced into the sex organs of the woman to freeze the same and to keep them frozen for up to five years on the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia with the possibility that, after the expiry of that period of 5 years and at the request of the spouses, or outside spouses, and at their expense in such a frozen state, the trap should be kept for up to five years. In all of this, it is controversial and ethically inadmissible not only by the procedures of medical help insemination of the production of excess embryos but also by their storage and creation of so-called. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: unused covers. However, it is also disputed that this surplus is used not only under certain conditions for implantation into the womb of a future mother but was wanted to acknowledge whether or not it is used among other uses and in productive diagnostics, in experiments and procedures of treatment with stem embryonic cells depending on legal regulation. I have already pointed out the fact that science and medicine advances every day and develops at an unimaginable rate, but also more and more come to the temptation to neglect an ethical dimension, manipulate the definition of beginning and end of life, experiment with embryos and fetuses, participate in pregnancy interruptions and euthanasia. In this context, I remind again of the introduction to the debate highlighted by the Hippocratic oath that obliges us doctors to safeguard the dignity of a human being from the moment of conception until the end of life. Whatever motives motivate scientists to scientific research must always be taken into account the limit that separates man's well-being from man's manipulation with the dignity of a human being. This bill is not unexpected for the Croatian public, but rather during the pre-election campaign, the Kukuriku coalition was announced by the adoption of a new law with an emphasis on the possibility of freezing down a number of impediments. This proposal of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination is in agreement with the so-called with a liberal world view of representatives of today's ruling coalition. He said today's health minister in an interview that the current Law on Medical Insemination is quoted as saying, "The Rigid, conservative law of the 20th century that will apply to all our citizens who believe that life begins with the merger of male and female sex cells, and since today's law will be for citizens who want laws and knowledge of the 21st century or so. for those who feel that life begins with the birth of a child, with the first cry, or when Mom feels the first moves." Allowing you, Mr. Minister, the right to your opinion and your liberal worldly horizons, as you say on the laws and knowledge of the 21st century, I am also a doctor with your opinion and opinion disagreed, even though you may consider it a lagging, backward, rigid and conservative thinking. And not just me, Mr. Minister, we who think differently from you think that life begins with a female and male sex cell, not by birth, by first crying or when Mom feels the first moves. The fertilized egg cell is an embryo and life has begun, and with this bill the excess of embryos, living beings, is intended for the fate of storage in a bank of mattresses, freezing and freezing. We store living things in banks as if it were a matter of future trade, we freeze living things which in the most cruel way violates the fundamental human right to life, and the new, unique and unrepeated human beings are reduced to consumer material, a means of manipulation that can be selected, spent, rejected and destroyed. And those who freeze them in advance know that when they defrost at least 30% of these living things will die. And it's still called the gold standard. And not only does there not have a legal definition that life begins only by birth, but rather some judicial decisions at European level, and so often we call on Europe to adopt our Croatian laws, they suggest that even in Europe, such a view of the beginning of life does not go away. Today, a recent decision by the EU Justice Court in Luxembourg was already mentioned last October in the case of Greenpeace against a German researcher. The court accepted the position towards which human life begins at the time of the fertilisation of the sperm egg, so at the moment of conception, and banned the patentisation of those studies involving the destruction of human embryos, i.e. embryos. And the Court of Justice of the EU protected the application of Article 6 by its ruling in the abovementioned case. Directive 98/44. which the proposer of today's law does not, in addition to all those directives which he mentioned by accident or deliberate, mention in the text of this law. In doing so, it should be stressed that no national constitution, nor international conventions define that human life begins with the birth of a child. With the EU Court of Justice's ruling already mentioned, I will also mention the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg last November in the case of a lawsuit against Austria that does not allow medically assisted insemination with the help of donated sex cells, which the court found that Austria's ban first gives priority to the welfare of the child. Relativating the beginning of life relativises both the human conscience and the profession and scientific knowledge and European and world declarations and conventions and the Code of Medical Ethics and the Hippocratic Oath and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as discriminating the considerable majority of citizens of our country whose attitude is contrary to their religious beliefs. Many are, above all, ethical dilemmas that occur in terms of medically assisted fertilisation, not only in Croatia, but in Europe and the whole world, and not from today. I will remind in this regard of the findings given in the debate with the 7th World Meeting of National Ethics Commissions held in Paris as early as 2008. On this occasion, listen well, two highly-positioned French officials, the French health minister and a member of the French Parliament criticised certain liberal worlds by comparing them with Nazism in view of selecting and denying the right to live embryos, euthanasia of disabled children, infirm, incurably sick and old persons, stressing the danger of new eugenics. Criticizing a materialistic oriented culture which among other things does not respect the dignity of life, it is also asked there a provocative question – do scientific research laboratories become crematorians? To have a different worldview than the liberal, advanced and world-class 21st century which is the foundation of this current bill, some view it as a backwards, rigid, conservative worldview of the last century. But it's our worldview, and as some have the right to do so, we have the right to our own. And we have the right not only to say that for us being gay is not ok but also to say that for us it is not acceptable any legal solution by protecting the right to health and life of one person not only not to protect but also knowingly endangering the right to the life of another human being, in this case a child. And the embryo is a living human being, child. Because life begins with conception, and it teaches us not only faith but also the Hippocratic oaths, but also the decisions of the highest European courts. And when I pass any law, I will remind every proposed lawman of the words of the Gospel according to Luke, "Ow, you legislators, put burdens on people intolerable, and touch them with your finger." Finally, the HDSSB Club opposes this proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7602	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and your club. Two amendments to the incorrect quote have been reported to your presentation. The first is the respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7603	Thank you. The incorrect claim by my colleague Buric, I quote, "The will of the minority is imposed on the will of the majority." This is where the law will be passed or not, if passed, it will be passed by the will of the majority. He himself, however, corrected himself in the second part of his exhibition when he said that the ruling coalition, today's ruling coalition, in the campaign was clearly public and loudly saying that such a law would propose and receive the support of most Croatian citizens. So, Mr. Buric, we represent most of the citizens, and you represent a minority. That's the difference. And a very questionable moral attitude is whether it is better that the child is not alive than that he does not know one parent, for example. And it's a dilemma and moral and ethical and deeply human.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7604	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by a respected representative of Biljana Borzana. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7605	Thank you. I would correct the incorrect assumption that this law states that one parenting family, or single motherhood, is something that is desirable. So this law accepts and acknowledges women who want to have children. So besides marriages and extramarital communities and people who can't have children, he recognizes this category of people, or women who want to have their offspring and have not been successful so far because they have, or have, been treated for infertility. I am also correcting another incorrect allegation, which is that in Austria the freezing of mattresses is allowed in contrast to what you said, Dr. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7606	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of registered clubs of representatives in the Croatian Assembly for discussion on the Proposal for a Law on Medical Supported Insemination. We're moving on to a debate of, uh, about 10 minutes, an individual debate of MPs. First for the word came the esteemed representative Biljana Borzana. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7607	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is today a law which, in fact, we have decided to reverse or reverse the situation that has been so far and that is because of the law and the public so far, we have made it clear when the heart says the child, the Government is determined to say yes. This is a law that caused quite a storm in the past term, and I must admit that I don't remember ever getting so many e-mails, a message from people whose law concerned them or concerned them because they've been through this arduous process of trying to get a child on artificial, or assisted insemination, and whoever didn't find himself in such a situation may not understand why this law is causing so much rebellion. But the desire for offspring is something that is instilled in every living creature and is an unsustainable urge, and therefore surely people who are willing to have children have nothing to do with it. This law is important for a number of reasons. One is that it directly affects the fate of almost a fifth of couples in Croatia who cannot have children in a natural way. It's also important because it affects the birth rate in our country. Unfortunately, we as a state are in step with many other countries in the world, advanced states in which birth is in decline, and every government, or every Parliament, has the responsibility to do everything to correct this picture, so that this negative trend will ease or stop. With this law, we have decided to correct the shortcomings of the law so far. So far the law, here many have used that term to be quite rigid and to reduce the possibility of a positive outcome in the struggle for offspring. I believe that today this law we are discussing is about a law which is at the same time very modern in accordance with the scientific achievements of modern medicine that we have at our disposal, and yet respects the society in which we live. There's been a struggle, and of course there will be. This is a topic that is difficult to find consensus, it has also been seen from previous discussions, but it is our responsibility here to pass a law that will best and most best go to the hands of those concerned. So to make it easier for people who are in this painful process, the process to get as easy and as fast as possible to reach their goal, or to have a child. With this proposal, we are changing something that has caused the most resistance, which is the possibility of freezing the mattresses. Different religious ethical doubts have been raised about it, and here I now appeal to those whose law concerns them to decide whether they have ethical or moral dilemmas. So if they want some to use the possibilities of this law if it is not acceptable for them, according to their moral, ethical, religious beliefs, let them simply not use it. It is also not necessary to ignore the fact that this is a law which, a labored process, a traumatic process and for women's health, is a risky process of hormonal stimulation, which is going to be considerably mitigated or reduced, and that, in the end of the line, we have to stress that, and the financial resources are less isolated. Whether the procedure costs medically assisted insemination of the country or individual is a cost that can be completely avoided, thereby increasing the success of the procedure to 60%, i.e. by freezing the embryos. The most important thing is to also highlight one more thing, which is that by freezing embryos we give a chance to people who, due to some circumstances in life, some kind of accident or illness, could no longer do so. I am sorry that in public from those who do not support this law, different misinformations have arisen, for example. That this is a law that does not cure infertility, that has only thirteen or sixteen percent success, and women are unnecessary, not to say the difficult terms that were even used as a bathrobe of hormones, and that is really offensive to a woman who, in that way, is spoken of. But these data simply are not true, but even if they are people who cannot have offspring by natural means, then the chances are zero. To them and that the success of the proceedings helped fertilization 5% to them is like a house of a large 5%, but of course as I said these percentages are where and where they are higher. So far, the law has only recognised the marriage community as a prerequisite for offspring, and we have talked about it a little bit. This law also allows people who are in the extramarital community to have offspring, as well as women who are not so far, or who are treated for infertility and who want to have a child. Of course, it's the best option for a child to grow up, be born and grow up with both parents, but I think that we who were lucky to have our children married, so we have no right to stand above those who have different living circumstances. So I think they need to be enabled, and I said it in the last term. Sadly, life often teaches us that parenting and progeny, that is, the marriage community and a happy childhood, must have no connection with one another. So, personally, I am sure that we all know single - parent families where children grow up happily and without the lack of parents, and we also know many families in which the child has both parents but one of them is problematic, violent, alcoholic, or something like that, so it doesn't have to mean that he is automatically privileged to that child who has only one parent. So it is up to us, as I said, to pass a law that will be based on scientific medical achievements, a law that will make it easier for people who can't naturally have a birthright to make this painful and uncertain procedure easier. A law that will finally free those concerned from the law that will allow the world to reach as many happy and healthy babies as possible. I believe this bill will achieve that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7608	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. Since your presentation has been reported as a correction of an incorrect quote and a single replica without warning to those who have applied, but I would like once again to ask all MPs and MPs to make their views known in this topic without trying to discredit someone else's position, someone else's opinion because it will not solve the dilemmas or the problems caused by such a law, which we must, of course, bring. It will not help citizens understand the problem if the speaker is discredited. So, once again, I would like to acknowledge that this is a really sensitive issue concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their status on the subject. Now we're going to correct the incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have no intention of discrediting my colleague Borzan, and I agree with you that we should discuss this matter with the chosen words, not in the manner that my colleague Coleman has spoken. But I want to correct the incorrect assumption where my colleague Borzan says that the current law has diminished a positive outcome in terms of the achievement of the offspring. That's incorrect. After the evaluation of the procedure, it was very clear in 2010 that 24% of children were born in the medical fertilisation process, 35.6% more births in 2010. 23.4 more pregnancy. It's very clear and I'm correcting it. And I agree with you that we must have responsibility, and of course not some speed that we once did, and Mr. Minister knows that in medicine, that rule is also the maximum "Prim niil noncera" so that we do not harm, so we must also consider that moment. And not now say anything is now the best thing we're proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7610	Thank you very much. And a respected representative, Dinko Buric, signed up for the replica. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I'm using again on purpose just to contribute to the debate on this law of the Replica Institute, not correcting an incorrect assumption. An esteemed colleague said that when a heart tells a child, then the government says yes. And you know the rise in birth in Croatia, so it's not like someone believes they'll be based on medically assisted fertilization. The basic prerequisite for raising the birth rate in Croatia is raising the standard of living and let's not run from that truth. And then we could apply another saying when the heart says business, the government should say yes, not no. When you mention the right to a family or the right to a single mother's child, then I remind you, and we call so much to the laws of other European countries and regulations as far as I know it, I do not claim that it is still so, but in Slovenia I have the information that in their Law on the Law of Law and Obligors Proportion says "the defined family as the life union of parents and children who enjoy special social protection as a child's interests". Why don't we look up to it? And if I'm going back to the worldview issue, if it's true that life begins at the moment of birth, with the first crying or moving of a child, and not the beginning, then I'm asking a question to the honourable Mr. Minister, isn't that also possible announcement at some other time of one other decision that we don't need a gynecology to maintain a threatened pregnancy? Therefore, we also need to take care of this when we are discussing the issue of the worldview. And here's my colleague, Borzan, saying using the replica institute, I hope we'll exchange opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7612	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7613	So I believe Dr. Buric that you know that the world's birth rate is mostly the largest in very poor countries, and the smallest in highly developed countries. So, definitely economic policy, unfortunately, has little to do with birth today, and of course I don't think we're going to make a revolution with the law, but surely if we consider that in Croatia about 2% of children are born from medically assisted fertilization, and let's say that the standard of developed countries is about 4%, I think that this 2% is worth considering that the law is changing and that it allows those who want to have children to have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7614	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7615	So I'll start with this advertising message when the heart says the child, the government says yes, but I'll only reach out in the first reading. And I believe that this government, in light of this big and broad debate, will change that law and go to amendments which were often the case here in the Parliament when the government, on its proposal for a law that the SDP has so much praised, went to the amendments, and here is really an esteemed colleague of the world, about the right of a child to life, about the right to a family. And this law allows, among other things, the manipulation of unborn children so that those traps that are frozen whose fate is not defined by this law. I would dare say that this is also about the possibility that these unborn children are transformed into unborn white slaves and that this law allows the trafficking of unborn white slaves. So I'm not going into the color of the skin, but I use this white slave as a valid name used in human trafficking regardless of religion, regardless of nationality and no matter the color of the skin, so that someone doesn't get it wrong. Given that this law is for good luck in first reading and many EU countries do not have unique laws on this matter, I believe that a number of the illogicalities found in this law allow those who do not really have the right to this possibility to do so. And it's very clear you need to just because of that worldview tell me and me gay isn't okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7616	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Borzan, the first thing I would like to say is, of course, every child, whether it was conceived by natural means or by artificial insemination, every child is always a blessing to his parents and to the whole society, and in this respect it is absolutely fine to say when the heart wants us to say yes. What's questionable here is that we say to everyone, not that the government says this one can, and we're going to freeze these, this one can have a dad and a mom, and this kid will only have a mom. There's discrimination and there's a problem, and that's why we have to deal with it. It's not just a thing of the world, it's simply a fundamental human right to life, which is also in our Constitution in Article 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7618	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7619	Thank you. Mr. Stier, I will respond to the replica because I previously felt that it was below any level to even comment on the previous replica of my colleague Vinkovic. It's not about playing games. It's about us playing God and determining who's going to be born and who isn't. So we can now compete here and discuss the traps and how many embryos and how many of them are we to say so to inherit our government back in the '90s, which is what the minister was talking about. So I think we better not touch each other in this sense because that's where we'll never meet at the same level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7620	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Health Mr Rajko Ostojic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Today is Wednesday, and today 68 of our citizens will be diagnosed with cancer, and 35 people die of cancer. The city of the size of Umag and the size of Makarska dies every year. But this whole year, 350,000 women and 2 million children will die because of complications in pregnancy and childbirth. A colleague Buric, 350 thousand women and 2 million children die from complications either in pregnancy or in childbirth. Alarm data. And that's why this law is the best medical law in Europe. The best. We can't change the past, we've all aged here in this House for 2.5 hours, we can't all change, so I'm not going back in time, and for a spoken word, there's no need. But it's a good past to watch and learn closely. My colleague Buric and colleague Vinkovic, don't worry, this ministry won't close their maternity homes, this ministry won't close their maternity homes like you have Mayor Djakova shut down. However, this law best protects the health of women and children and will do everything possible to ensure that these data I just said are not applicable in Croatia. Comrade Buric, when you quote me, quote me to the end, quote me from the source, from the electronic unwritten media, but that's it. The key word is to make it as simple as possible, but that's it, I've said hundreds of thousands of statements over the past few months, but if it pleases you. Welcome, quote whatever you want. Comrade Vinkovic, please, please, please, white slavery, white slavery, what you're talking about. What are you talking about? This law effectively protects the health of women and children and absolutely prevents any manipulation of biological material. What, for example, only about this, a European court has brought about manipulation, in part, in part, this law protects it. Please study the law. I'm 51 years old and I don't say anything... I'm just saying that, except for the organ transplant, that's all I'm talking about. [[You don't understand.]] And I am proud to have started an organ transplant program and I am proud that today Croatia is the first in the country with organ transplants and you know it well. This is what my hospital director knows, my colleague Marasović knows, I am proud to have started this, I am proud to be a member of Eurotransplant today, I am proud that we are the first to be transplanted and there is no trade in organs for the name of God in Croatia. White slavery, organ trafficking, please. Come on, please. Above this House is only God, please be careful. I thanked the academic Rainer a moment ago, which is very clear, he didn't enter the world view, I thank you again to all of you who respect it, but please be careful with the words spoken, then someone will quote you as my colleague Buric quotes me, even though you haven't heard me, and you can't even hear me because you read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7622	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Before I give my word, I would like to remind my fellow MPs and MPs, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, is the correction of an incorrect assumption so as not to be abused in the sense of something else. The first to correct the incorrect allegations came from MP Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7623	I guess we'll change the Rules of Procedure real soon. So I'm correcting the Honorable Mr. Minister who said that this law prevents above all from being manipulated by frozen traps. I claim that this is exactly the law, the law written like this, allows for manipulation, trade and uncertain fate. So I'm not talking about frozen traps, I'm talking about the inborn, unborn children directly, and that's why I used the name unborn white slavery. You have proof and I believe that the UK had a similar law and what happened in Great Britain I would really not want to see another 28 Zoran Vinkovic or 38 here in the Croatian Parliament if I decided to change the Rules of Procedure, because this Law would not prevent the creation of a new 38 Zoran Vinkovic as it is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7624	Time, thank you. The next amendment was reported by MP Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, Mr. Minister, I welcome your optimism, that's fine, as I welcome many of your decisions so far. And when it comes to this law, then it's an incorrect quote and I stand behind it when you say that this law is a great protection for the life of a mother and a child. No, he doesn't protect a child's life at all. We're talking about living things that aren't implanted, which are subject to a freezing or defrosting procedure. The only difference, that is, is not the only one, I apologize for the fundamental difference, one of the most important between the present and the present, whether it has made it possible so far, is that this Law creates an enormously excess of impediments and that is the key to everything. So far we've had the opportunity to fertilize three egg cells, now 12. What's the reason for that? That's a possibility of manipulation. And in the end, you know I'm not happy to quote anyone's good or bad statement. Since I am not at the opportunity of me or anyone else being present, I hope that you believe that our democratic right to express what the media has conveyed as well as your right to say it is or is not true. But I didn't see you deny what the media wrote about your claims about the beginning of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7626	Thank you. Let's move on, individual debate. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7627	Thank you, dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I will not talk about the medical aspect of this legislative proposal, because I think it will be much more competent for those representatives and advocates whose profession this is, but also for those representatives and advocates who are among us, who have their own experience in applying medically help fertilization. And I actually think that these very latter ones should listen very carefully and listen to their suggestions because their experiences are tested on their own skin and are much more valuable. So I'm going to make a kind of a deviation from these last discussions that some of them were actually very difficult to listen to. So, in all this legislative proposal, I'm going to speak right in the context of demographic policy. Croatia has been shaking economic recession for the third year in a row. However, a recession in which we are much longer and which could result in, in fact, much more dramatic consequences is precisely demographic recession. As the economic recession is recognised by the fact that in several consecutive periods we have negative rates of economic growth, so the demographic recession is recognised by low levels of fetility, by the decline of the total population, but also by the ageing population. In one word, today's demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia is extremely bad. For decades, Croatia has been classified as not a natal country, and we can truly say that Croatia's largest deficit is currently a newborn deficit. That Croatia has no fertility rate shows that women in Croatia have an average of 1.4 children, while for a zero rate of natural growth, at least two children are required. The result is that Croatia loses more than 25,000 people annually. So every year Croatia loses one example of Bjelovar. The next problem is that the Croatian population is getting old. The share of the old population is increasing, and the share of the younger population is decreasing. The consequences are we see this daily multiple and very serious. The first is, for example, the unsustainability of the existing social security system. In fact, we already have a very unfavourable relationship between the number of employees and the number of abstentions. That's why the Peace Fund shoots at seams. We need to secure about half of the pension funds from the state budget right now. The second consequence is reflected in the reduction of the working-age population's contingent, and I really think it's a good time to ask ourselves a question. We work for our parents at these times, and who's going to work for us? We all know that the economic power of one country rests on young people. The older the working population, the weaker the economic power of a country, and the more uncertain the future. The average age of the total population in Croatia is 41 years, with some parts of Croatia particularly those more underdeveloped than those affected by the war literally extinct. Finally, we all know that Croatia has already extended its time in the situation that it must import labour. Furthermore, it is important to point out that the family structure is changing and pluralising. Sometimes marginal family forms such as a parent family, an extramarital community, single households are now increasingly represented in the family structure and should be respected, with this to be dealt with. So it's no longer the traditional family that only makes men and women. Furthermore, there are major changes in women's behavior. A growing number of women who delay motherhood are putting it under quotes to wait for the construction of their own career because they intend to ensure their material independence and security. First-born girls over 40 are now more than a rule than an exception. In the last 15 years, the number of women born at 40 years has increased as much as 50%. Unfortunately, what's not good at this data, in those facts, is that with the age rise, fertility is drastically decreasing. I'll say the exact odds for conception after 40 years are only 20%. In Croatia, as well as in the world, there is a trend in increasing the number of infertile couples. So in Croatia, that figure is somewhere at 18%. In Zagreb, however, this is a far worse situation. So we're talking about 25% of infertile couples. Therefore, due to the low rate of natural growth of the population as a consequence of all the above mentioned reasons, the birth of a larger number of children is not just a family issue. So it's not just a family issue, it's a first-rate, national issue because low birth is not just a limiting factor in development, it's actually a condition of survival. And in this context, medically assisted insemination must be one of the measures of demographic policy as much as some actually dispute it. And in that sense, the Law on Medical Aided Insemination that we are discussing today is fortunate in our first reading, so good suggestions will be appreciated. The law is a modern law, a European law, as said by the minister, a law that moves in time. And that means that it appreciates all the changes that this time and daily life brings. On the one hand, the overall technological progress and progress of medicine, and on the other hand a series of major changes in the movement and structure of the population and changes in the family that I was talking about. In this regard, an important step is to extend the right to medically assisted insemination with married and out-of-marriage partners and to the woman herself, so to the one who does not live in a married, or out-of-marriage community, but is businessly capable and capable and wants to be a parent. Furthermore, this legislative proposal represents a major step forward in humanising the medically assisted fertilisation process because it prevents hyperstimulation and its negative consequences and reduces the risk of multiple pregnancies. And certainly, no less important, it allows for the freezing of embryos and egg cells, but also their donation. So because of all these positive solutions, and above all because of the freedom of choice that this law offers, I am convinced that this law will be in the function of demographic renewal, that it will contribute to the achievement of the ultimate goal, which is that at least 4% of children are involved in a medically assisted fertilization, and now I will remind that percentage somewhere around 2 and 2.4%, respectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7628	Thank you. On your exhibit, we have one correction to the incorrect quote and three replicas. Representative Mr. Stjepan Milinković, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Jelash incorrectly said that a demographic recession had taken place in the last 3.4 years with the economic recession. Incorrectly, a demographic recession occurred far earlier, and I would like to remind you that the largest demographic recession occurred between 2000 and 2003 when birth benefits were cut, when children's allowances came into question. But I don't believe it either, you said in an economical dictionary, and that these measures will therefore increase VAT and therefore all these increases in cost and difficulty of life will contribute to the demographic explosion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7630	Thank you. Replica was first reported by MP Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7631	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Vice President, a colleague of mine, in fact, relatively well detected the concept of demographic recession and the fall of birth as a really significant social problem and a long-term problem of the Republic of Croatia, in my opinion, and then did what the minister did in his debate and what many who defended this law connected the problem of demographic recession with the Law of Insemination. There is no way we can agree on that because indeed the demographic decline is significantly present in Croatia. The question is that there are no proper measures for demographic recovery. Neither did the previous government nor did your government show them if the Law on Insemination was an answer to a demographic fall. Will artificial insemination be the measure that will demographically recover the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people? Of course not. It takes a whole series of systematic social measures, one serious social attitude towards the problem of demographic extinction of this people. And that's certainly not the Law of Insemination. It cannot be the axis of the demographic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to pluralising the family structure of the concept that you used to pluralize the family structure, what is pluralization of the family structure? What are you offering us in the background, what forms of family communities? Women delay motherhood, yes, women delay motherhood today. Yeah, we've got more and more infertility problems. Yeah, let's take responsibility for our lives. Yes, women also need to create a family early in the past years because, of course, the later advanced age of childbirth creates problems and the problem of infertility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7632	Thank you. Replication response, representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7633	I said in my debate that there are 18% of infertile couples in Croatia right now, in Zagreb as much as 25%. So, every fourth pair is infertile. And if you think this Law on Medical Breeding won't help at least partially, then to be more newborns, then I think you're mistaken. So we don't expect a revolution, we don't expect a demographic boom, but what we're saying is that this law will help in this demographic depression.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7634	Thank you. The next one came from representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7635	In any case, the respected colleagues on the demographic picture of Croatia will not have a significant impact on this law, among other things, on the demographic picture of Croatia, and this is the answer to the predecessors who said that most in the elections voted for this law, and that is when most hearts said better life, said Plan 21 and that is why people circled the Kukurik coalition. But after the election of reason in these people, something quite tells us that they got 25% of VAT, that they got more expensive electricity, gas and more expensive and so on, but that we're not going back to this. It's definitely a matter of clearing up here. This is about aid, or the possibility of manipulation of frozen traps. First of all, it is open to say that this law does not allow itself to talk about couples all the time, so it is not just couples, it is a marriage community, and I agree that this marriage community needs to be helped but not in this way and with this number of frozen embryos. I'm talking about an out-of-marriage community. Well, I will, and that's my personal opinion, so if someone wants to have a child in an out-of-marriage community and if they have the same rights as in a marriage community, then what's the problem with going to the mother, going to church, mosque or not knowing where to get married and having a right to a child? But here we're talking about "a business capable woman". I don't see any reason since the minister said that medicine will advance over 10 years to talk about Schwarzenegger and that Danny De Vito about the twins is probably possible in medicine. And here I trust Mr. Minister and I will finish here, so it is exclusively about the homosexual community that is being placed here under a capable professional woman, and I trust and hope that I won't have to trust him for long, because the mayor didn't close the birthplace but has closed down the Ministry of Health and the Health Inspection and I agree that she had to shut him down and I hope that this ministry will invest money in the Birthplace in Đakova and allow for the increase of birth in Đakovova, to finally give birth to Djakovchani and Djakovchhanka naturally, but that these children have a mother and father. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7636	Thank you. The next one came from MP Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow Members, when it comes to demographic recession, and it is more and more discussed in the debates, then it is part of what the esteemed colleague Milinkovic said, but let's not go back... years, if we are going back then we remember and what an even greater contribution to the demographic recession, which is the Homeland War and tens of thousands of lost biological, national, Croatian beings in large-serb and Chetnic aggression. But when we talk about this law then it's not really I can't believe that you believe that only this law or it is actually going to be the most important lever to increase the birth rate in Croatia, and at the same time we close our eyes to what we're always saying people don't have, they can't afford to create and increase their family because of poverty, because of poverty, because of lack of work, they can barely eat the children and families they have. And you mentioned how the city of the size of Bjelovar disappeared, so I will mention our Slavonia and Branju which is the most obvious example, in which in all Slavonia and Baranja according to the last census of the city of the size of Osijek, not because of the medically assisted fertilization measures but because of the systematic neglect of the area in which we live in all these 20 years. But here's another question I'd also like to ask Mr. Secretary when he answers if he comes to an opportunity or if he wants to answer. I asked the question in the debate what about Article 11. This law which is in conflict with Article 10. Item 3 which speaks marriage or is misspelled I may have the wrong material Here's what I'm gonna say. [[Intruder: Time of fellow Buric.]] "Marriage or extramarital community must exist at the time of the entry of sex cells or embryos into the body of a woman." So what about that article that says that a woman doesn't have to be married, and it could be the one that's going to have a baby?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7638	Thank you. A reply to the replica of representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7639	... Someone shut me out. [[Speech is not enabled.]] I want to tell you that you're actually in contradiction with yourself. In fact, the biggest natural growth is precisely in countries with the lowest economic growth and where citizens live the hardest. On the other hand, it is precisely the problem of demographic recession that is most present in the most economically developed countries. And in that sense I want to say again we do not expect this law to revolutionize the birth of children, not at all, nor will it be the only leverage in reducing the negativity of demographic recession, but in any case every child, every newborn child is welcome. And this law will certainly help.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7640	Thank you. The next debate was registered by Commissioner Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7641	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me introduce you to my daughter. She walked when she was nine months old, and she said the sentences on her first birthday. She's healthy, don't wake up at night in sweat, don't dream of white corners. Last antibiotics she drank at 18 months, now she's in eighth grade. In the first grade, she broke her arm, and when she was five years old, she was a great student, she was a member of a mountaineering society and a regular female female female female cheerleader. She's clumsy for all sports with a ball, her room is more than often messy. She's addicted to candy and facebooks. And yes, my daughter is a child from the test tube. Her future is completely uncertain at this point whether she will choose the best school for herself, whether to master it, whether to enroll and finish college, get married early or not, make a career, be a mother. But there's a choice. It is uncertain how her life will run from the present to the present, but it is certain that we her parents chose her because we had the option and the right choice. It is quite certain that in 1997 he was in force by the so - called so - called so - called “the true God. ” Milinovic's Law on aided insemination would be gone today. If only only three eggs for fertilisation were taken instead of all to allow the law today would not exist. She would not grow surrounded by love and family happiness as the greatest gift of our lives. It wouldn't make us rich by her parents, but it would make us rich by all the people we know and who we're connected to. Not coming to it would not give our lives meaning today, even though we were sure then that we were willing to accept life without children. As a mother of a child from a test tube who, after 8 years of treatment, 13 extra-body hormone aggressions and 8 extra-body fertilisations became a parent, I give myself the right to say, treat infertility whoever did not meet her indirectly or directly cannot understand. There is no greater temptation for parents than there is for such treatment. A community that is stoic-suffering and insists on having a child, regardless of being heterogeneous, homogeneous, married, the extramarital girl deserved that child. Such a community will know how to appreciate a child as God’s gift. So please, let us discuss this proposal with dignity, make it optimal to help treat infertility without unnecessary restrictions and finally, accept this bill on my behalf, on behalf of my daughter, on behalf of my family, on behalf of all mothers, children from help insemination and on behalf of all future mothers and children from the test tube and in the end, no less important, in the name of reason. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7642	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Representative Zoran Vinkovic first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7643	You see, dear colleagues, I didn't think we'd go to this private level in this debate. I also have a daughter named Anna who turned three a few days ago. He's not a kid from the test tube and he's doing almost everything little kids do, just like your kid who if you talked about your own example, about his own kid, I apologize if I didn't get it right. But in all your exposure, you mention your parents, so you mention your father and mother. You mention it all the time, you don't mention an extramarital community, you don't mention a business capable woman or a business man. So, I know very well, and I feel compassion for all those who go through the treatment of infertility. However, if this law does not allow the manipulation of 9 to 10 just unborn children you must be aware that this law allows it, that only 2 to 3 embryos, that I do not use because I am not a doctor, that I do not use a technical term to go into medically assisted fertilisation, 9 to 10 embryos are frozen. With the fate of these embryos, and for me it's not the birth of a child or the first time a mother feels movements in her stomach that it's a sign of life, for me it's a merger of male sex cells and female sex cells, sperm and female egg cells beginning of life. So this...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7644	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7645	What's already expired? If I've been understood enough, it's precisely the fundamental negativity of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7646	Thank you. Replica reply, Commissioner Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7647	In fact, on this first part of your debate about a personal or nonpersonal level, I don't even want to answer in this replica, but to solve the other part. 12 eggs do not mean 12 embryos, so 12 eggs going into fertilisation does not mean 12 embryos and does not mean that these 12 embryos will be unsettled. And on the percentages of how many embryos are produced from 12 eggs or from any amount of eggs, expert literature is available, and some are written in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7648	Thank you. Next up for Replica representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7649	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you just made one big mistake. You're getting into something I don't know if you understand or don't understand. 12 fertilized egg cells are 12 embryos, 12 fertilized egg cells are 12 new beings, of which only 2 or possibly 3 will be implanted, and the rest of the living creatures, the other traps go into freezing, possibly to defrosting and have fate if they are not used to be destroyed. I welcome and rejoice as much as it seems true or incorrect to you right now, and I am truly looking forward to your happiness to experience the parenting and love of the child towards you and you and your child because I have four children myself, thank God without medical help insemination. But dear colleagues, you're saying how proud you are of your child's right to live, and I'm asking a question, and what is with the right to live all those living creatures, children, embryos that will come from the fertilization of 12 egg cells, which is questionable how many of them will ever be used. And this so far law, including the one by which you gave birth to a child, made it possible and you said yourself, wasn't 12 but the same as this previous 2 or 3. So we are essentially saying that we are against this bill because of one of the most important facts, the production of excess living things. The embryo is a living thing, it's a child we hate. Why 12 if we've had 2 or 3 so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7650	Thanks, buddy. Replica reply, Commissioner Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7651	So the answer to the replica is the same again, I really don't know who doesn't understand it. 12 egg cells are in fertilized. ... 12 egg cells... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The fertilisation of 12 egg cells is permitted. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So if all 12 were fertilized, it would be a significant success. It doesn't even happen in natural cycles that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7652	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The next debate is representative Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. So here's the thing about this debate, I'm kind of afraid that if we put our opinions, our worldview, our thinking of ethics or something else, we'll be called not to be advanced, that we're not European, that we don't understand. I understand, of course, every parent's desire to have a child. What is for us in Croatia is a democratic community, and I, too, am personally the crown of love between a man and a woman is marriage. A child is a gift from God or a blessing from that marriage or that family. This desire, of course, is achieved in the most beautiful way possible by all who can by natural means. It should not be said today, and it should be noted that in undeveloped environments, economically lagging environments, if you want to say to uneducated environments, as some representatives of the family say, have more children. They can be proud, they've got up to a dozen. Believe me, there are extraordinary intellectuals for whom ten children mean pride, and today I congratulate them on all those who have 10 and more children and do not consider them unsupervised and not European. If I make my remarks today on my own behalf, of course, and on behalf of the worldview I stand for, but also on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I don't think you'll see it as something that is questionable at all. I want to talk about the next one. Of course I do, but I must say, most of Croatia is concerned about Article 7(6) and it is about freezing human beings, children. For us at the Croatian Democratic Community club, but for me, personal life begins with conception. No, and there's no greater happiness in one mother, one family, and one parent when after a few weeks we find out we're carrying a living thing. For me, personally, it's a living thing. I'm going to ask you, except when I start asking you that these embryo stages are being held in liquid nitrogen at -196 degrees Celsius, which is why I have to say in a very harsh way it violates the fundamental human right to life. And why is that? Why is it breaking? Because for five years, she says that parents decide for themselves and hold on to themselves, or for five years at the expense of the state. I wouldn't want to talk about this law absolutely about costs, the cost of costing. Can something have a higher price than human life? He can't. After five years, however, parents themselves should pay in that liquid nitrogen at -196 degrees deep - frozen child. And what happens when he doesn't? What happens after 10 years? My colleagues and colleagues, today we talked about it and criticised the laws before that. No one has answered us to this day how many of these frozen children we have in Croatia. We're talking about 8,000, but we don't have relevant data, so we can't even talk about it. Does the state deny a child the right to one parent, to a father? For me the family of course make up a man and a woman and they're family with their child. If one of the parents does not, of course, have the need to provide each child with carefree childhood with the support of his entire family, but also the state and local administration and legislation must take care of it. Is it moral that in one of the articles of the law we allow a child simply to have no right to a father? Well, it's not. Is it just that, is it normal for that one father to come to a medical facility, get 100 kuna for his sperm and thus give up the right to even know who his child is and who he really is the father to? Another thing when it comes to donating children, or human beings to the stage of embryos. This may seem so harsh when spoken, but believe the embryos are human beings. So imagine now that they're frozen and someone's manipulating them, giving them away, just saying, "Here I am now not, I'm giving them to you." They're not things, they're beings. All the things I've been saying now, of course, are moral dilemmas and, of course, none of us, absolutely none of us here is for every married couple to be provided and the possibility not only to cure the most quality infertility but also to be able to aid insemination. However, in the first reading, this Law now requires a series of explanations, a series of amendments. And here is how I would like to thank and launch the citizens' initiative and I was an embryo and inclusion of all the major religious communities that operate in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, because the proposal of this must be said in one way the controversial law is sent to regular rather than to emergency procedures. And I think that's right. What I'm trying to say, colleagues and colleagues, this law is certainly not something that will encourage demographic renewal in Croatia. It's something else. This government needs to know, this government needs to know that it needs to secure work, that it needs to secure maternity benefits, that there are enough kindergartens to be provided. This government should know it this way I am convinced the birth of every child is infinite happiness, it is for me a gift of God no matter how it came into the world. But you should also think about the child, meaning the rights of that unborn still child, but the child, the right family, the right of one of the parents. And there's still time. I hope the minister will respect all our remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7654	Thank you. Maybe someone after what I'm about to say will raise a plate for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't matter. I would only beg the minister when he takes the word to explain it to me, namely you told Mrs. twilight to stick to a frozen child at minus 160 in liquid nitrogen. I'd just ask that if we're already using the terms to keep them professional so they don't cause dilemmas with those they listen to, but I say I'll ask the minister when it's planned to manifest itself to be professionally termed. I've seen the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but here I have announced in advance. Thank you. I'm just saying this for the sake of asking those who will move forward in individual debates to make a proper effort in their presentations to have a relationship to the profession. Thank you. We got two replicas, first up... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is the Rules of Procedure injured in Article 204 of paragraphs 9 and 12, I ask you nicely, of course, I have said what is for us in HDZ and for me personally I have said that life begins with conception. I said it was an embryo, I said it was an embryo for me a little child and I was talking about it then, freezing embryos like freezing unborn children.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7656	I don't consider it a violation of the Rules of Procedure in that context, but I just said I'm begging. I have injured the Rules of Procedure in a way that the leader who holds the meeting cannot comment. I only ask, I appeal in further presentations, and I have cited your exposure as an example. We have two replicas. Replica was first reported by MP Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7657	Thank you. So here's a quick replica, my colleague referred to heterologous artificial fertilization. So, on that artificial insemination where embryos, traps, or as you say, have already begun some human life, regardless of how you look at it now, but it's de facto and genome and therefore one defined concept of a person is immeasurable whether it's conceived as life or not, to donate to a recipient. This recipient, this woman will bear one child as a heterologous artificial fertilizer of one material, the genetic material of a life that is not its genetic. This is de facto about sort of adoption. We can look at it that way. Very liberally organized adoption. The adoption law in the Republic of Croatia is extremely conservative. Therefore, adoption is extremely difficult, excessively difficult. So it's also something that should certainly be facilitated, liberalized and made much easier to do. And on the other hand here, we have one form in some way of adopting that we're going to normally make extremely simple. I don't see any criteria set, at least in this law, for recipients of heterologous artificial insemination. So those who will take that embryo, that start life, will actually adopt a child only in the form of an embryo, I don't see that there are any criteria set for them as those who will actually adopt it only in the form of embryos. On the other hand, when it comes to the adoption of one child who has a year, two or three days, we have a whole series of very high criteria, so the adoption process is very difficult. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7658	Thank you, thank you. No answer? Thank you. The next one came from a representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'd go back to the one earlier than the president today on his note that in the debate on this subject he obliges us all to be here with the chosen words, and so he obliges you, Mr. Vice President, certainly in that part to engage in certain professional Gods. But I'm going to the replica, so, Comrade twilight, you've encouraged me to think today often and on many occasions we hear, full of the mouths of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's always about the rights of the child, etc. But I am responsibly saying that they are often neglected, and this law ignores the rights of those who cannot make clear, loudly express their position. Namely, it was easily assumed that there were no major ethical or other problems arising from the creation of children from donated... , but after these children reached adulthood they became activists and call for change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They describe a strong sense of loss of identity because they do not know one or both biological parents and their wider biological family, etc. So it's very important to point out, therefore, in that part of it, and I'm glad to hear that that girl lives in a decent family too. This certainly contributes to health because health by definition of the World Health Organization is a complete mental, physical and social well-being. I don't think we understand each other in that part, and that we also need to have the attention and debate with that dictionary that Mr. Vice President was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7660	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Representative twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a good thing that you've given me a little bit of a boost to something I may have forgotten to say in my debate, and that's this article that applies to women up to 42 years of age, of course, and by speaking here to my colleagues and by defending this law, they're saying there's going to be a possible artificial insemination at 50 and over. Well, I'd like to stand up for myself and the kids right now. Well, it's not a problem when pregnancy is instantly followed by ours in any way so I can say the years that are ready to take care of that child, because here's an example. At 45 years of age, it can also happen naturally that a woman can change when she gets pregnant and of course it is true and of course she will leave that child. But here's what dilemmas are now. If I am now, and I'm 53 years old, in 15 years when my kid wouldn't even go to high school, I'm almost 65, and he's not gonna start studying, and I'm 70, who's gonna take care of that kid at 15, 16, 17 and 18? And I'm curious about that, you know, I'd like it to be said in the law that way. To say if she's a working woman now at 42, and she's single and she wants to be born, which will happen when that woman is born, when that child is going to have no idea how old she is until she's independent if she becomes working incompetent, if she can't take care of that child anymore. I think that's the thing, these are the questions of the minister that we should get answers to not because we personally need to consider ourselves not European, not advanced but this one, but because we want those answers. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7662	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Ana Komaraić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7663	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers without associates this time, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us in the first reading, so the Law on Medical Insemination. What I really want to say is child law, parenting law. In preparation for this debate, I took a little of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and found it, so Article 22 says, "Man's freedom and personality are invulnerable." The law of Article 63 says, "The state protects motherhood." Article 64 says: "Parents are obliged to raise, maintain, educate children and have the right and freedom to decide independently about raising their children." Why did I mention these articles from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? So that she would ask you and herself that persons who are limited to the right to become parents, and I simply cannot do so naturally, how we will fulfill this very constitution guaranteed by the Constitution, which is the right to choice, freedom, parenting and motherhood. I put motherhood in the last place, not because I think it's the least important thing but the opposite. I was lucky in my life and became the mother of two children. And every day I feel what it means to be a mother, which means to be a parent and I really want to be a parent, especially after such an emotional speech by my colleague Dunje that it is absolutely all the people who want to be, that they simply become parents. What I find extremely important is that the state must ensure everyone's equal rights and equal chance, of course in accordance with medical opportunities and medical achievements. What has already been said today is precisely this law is a golden standard in the treatment of infertility. And I want to remind you, and there have already been a lot of speeches about it today, almost eighteen couples in the republic, post couples, in the Republic of Croatia cannot have a child naturally. So let's try to put our colleagues and colleagues in their skin for at least a second, try to think about how people feel when they find out they can't have a child naturally, until the moment they come to a decision that they want to go to medically assisted fertilization, and then fear and uncertainty begins. It all starts by stimulating women's hormones, then there's a painful process of extracting egg cells, and then these egg cells fertilizing, and it's waiting to see if or not it's going to come to the development of the embryos, and then these same embryos are coming back to the body of the woman, and then there's a fear of whether there's going to be a pregnancy, even if all of this works out, whether it's going to come to an end, or whether it's going to be the end of the pregnancy, and then it's going to mean the birth of a healthy child. I want to look back with a few sentences on what has already been said here today, there have been controversy in the public as well, but there have been controversy on committees, and there have been religious beliefs, ethics and morals. I respect for the truth the beliefs, the attitudes, the principles, but what needs to be emphasized is that this law does not force anyone to do anything. He only opens up the possibility for those couples who want it, and those to whom it conflicts with any of their worldly horizons, they are left with the possibility of choosing what procedure is acceptable to them. And Mr. Minister, I would ask you for the truth to answer one of my questions, and at the very beginning Mrs. Nancy Tyrelli also mentioned that on the Committee on Gender Equality, your deputy said that the aided insemination procedures so far are being taken into account in the total number of procedures on the burden of HZZO. It seems to me that we should think about this very carefully because some women have already come to the fourth or fifth proceedings, and obviously they would not have the right to continue their actions, so I ask you that if this is wrong, and if I do not appeal to you that we should actually return everything to the beginning, to put all women on zero and allow them to go along with this new law on medically assisted insemination and to allow them and to give them a better chance of having a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7664	Thank you. The next debate came from representative Tatjana Šimac – Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So I think we'll all agree that the procedure is medically assisted fertilization, help fertilize one of the most important scientific events of the 20th century. Since '78. years since it was actually the first one, i.e. in Croatia since '83. A year. Having problems with conception can cause so much sadness as losing a loved one, also knowing that you cannot start a child naturally, or the diagnosis is very stressful. The procedure itself is also painful and stressful both for the woman and for the couple and especially for the number of repeated times these women must go through until they reach the desired goal, and in part we have heard from our representative who has witnessed her example. So every day we listen to these testimonies of women, the struggle with the feelings they're having, that they're actually experiencing, and also the testimony of happiness that comes at the end of that painful path. We are aware that this is a health problem since we already have 18% of couples in Croatia or who are suffering from infertility. It would be very meaningful to essentially explore the etiology of this disease so that it can go into the prevention of the same disease, I think that today one of the constituencies has talked about this in the introduction and prevention programmes into school or health education. So infertility is a disease, but treatment can also be very, very exhausting and emotionally, both physically and financially, and our task is essentially to reduce such exhaustions. During the year 42 thousand children were born in the Republic of Croatia, the proportion of children who came from artificial insemination was 2.4% today were data and lower than this. The target is about 4%. It was also said about the most intelligent policy, surely that this is the part that will increase or serve the most intelligent policy. However, I would say that this law is not a mechanism for the most innovative policy, and of course there are various other obstacles and parenting to the creation of marriage or parenting. I agree first and foremost with everyone that this is in our economic situation, reality, where it should encourage and encourage and address housing issues and flexible working time and also the conditions for raising children. I hope this government continues, already working on it and will continue to do so. Since the birth of the first baby who is a baby from the test tube, about 4 million children around the world have been conceived in this way. I support this bill of law that allows for what modern medicine can allow to come to those who want to become offspring, especially the principle of optimal treatment, the principle of choice, the principle of women and children's health, the principle of availability. Let's remember everyone who's in medicine that we have to stick to that "Accept non-nights" means it doesn't hurt first, and then it heals, so it's a minimum health risk for all of us. My colleagues and colleagues, this is exactly the law that allows it. This proposal enables the freezing of the cover. In fact, before the procedure itself, the insemination of women is subject to hormonal stimulation, and then the colleague in front of me said that I am not repeating exactly one painful procedure and puncture, and that there is actually a return or implantation of the embryo. This law says that two embryos return, the rest is implanted and the rest is frozen, as the woman in the retrial, and there is evidence of how many procedures are repeated until the child reaches its goal, i.e. the child means that women and partners should not go through the whole painful process and the unpleasant process that they have passed. In addition, if freezing is banned from the current law, some couples are permanently disabling their reproductive rights, since one part of the woman after hormonal stimulation can not then physically receive the embryo, it should take some time. It's medical cases that talk about it. However, this law respects the beliefs of those who oppose the freezing of the embryo and gives the possibility to choose or model such. The advantage is naturally given to homologous fertilisation. I will refer to Article 7 which speaks allows for controlled stimulation. There have been talks today about getting these 11 egg cells, the waist has shown that it is an optimal number that does not endanger women’s health. And I have to tell the public that when such stimulation is done then a number of follicles are taken away where a large number of ovaries are obtained. However, non-quality egg cells are also obtained. And that's why one number to 12 is limited. Why? Because over-stimulation is taking away the larger number of follicles, so a woman can arrive early in the menopause. And we're sitting on Prim Non Nights. We have to help but not harm. I'll also say the law says that no more than two embryos return to a woman's body because it turns out that by applying two embryos or better, another pregnancy has a good outcome. Of course it's also good for the future's wife and child's health. And new international research shows that the best outcomes in returning one or two embryos are. One more thing about the age of a woman, today we mentioned the age of a woman. The higher the age, of course, is the success of medically aided fertilization the smaller, the restriction of waist said for 42 years. Also empirical when it can be the greatest success because after 45 years of life success is less than 0.5%, and it is also a health risk increased for such a woman. The law signifies the state register of course which was necessary to see which infertility centre he started the procedure, that he will not be able to go into re-trial at the second center, to take advantage of in fact and frozen embryos and egg cells, to see the success of the centre etc., etc. There was also talk of possible abuses. True, it can be misused, but this law shows, shown and banned, restrictions and the register itself is actually a form of disabling it. But I would also refer to the article 56 which speaks of infringements, so it is said that it goes into financial violation, yes, from 70 thousand to 250 thousand kuna is punished for violations, the 24 points and 24 paragraphs are cited. But I do believe that some injuries require criminal acts, not to remain on such offences. They're for example. From number 17 on. So far, this can be handled under this law, but perhaps in the future, we're thinking of putting some of the specifics of this into the Penal Code. So colleagues and colleagues, although the way to a child through medical help insemination is difficult for each woman, for each couple, numerous examples show that the desire for a child is one of the strongest desires. But precisely because of this joy at the end of the journey, because of little Anna and all these children who have come in this way, someone in Croatia cannot make it impossible to do so, so it is the task of the Ministry of Health and Government to provide all those who need such help with what modern medicine is offering today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7666	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your display. Replica was first reported by MP Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7667	Thank you. Here's my colleague, just so she doesn't stay doubtful, nor do I think that here, I can't speak for everyone but I can speak for my colleagues in the HDSSB, none of us are against artificial insemination procedures, nor are we against it. So at this time and as a person and as a club of representatives, we are against some of the provisions of this Law on Insemination, in the first order of those concerning use and procedures with and around embryos. I don't think that in general it's a question of most debates and the attitudes of the majority, I can't say with everyone, it's a question of relations to artificial fertilisation, but of some of the procedures that apply in the process of artificial insemination. When it comes to the argument that the law respects the ethical views of those who agree with these procedures in a way that they do not have to apply them, we can thus establish any law that we consider immoral and say it will not apply to you who do not want to apply it. Legalize easy drugs, but you who don't want to use them don't use them. It's also about prevention. Our health minister is a great supporter of prevention and has repeatedly stressed the need for prevention and prevention of infertility is not so difficult to define. However, we have not heard that there is a clear and loud statement of what should actually be done in preventing infertility, whether there is 18% I don't know and I don't believe that there is 18% and I don't know whose data it is and I don't believe in it. If there is one, it has also been produced by the spread of this definition of infertility. However, prevention is not complex at all, it is not expensive, it is not demanding, it just needs political will and desire to enter that prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7668	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Councilwoman Shimac-Bonačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7669	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I agree that prevention only takes wonders, you're a doctor, so that prevention can work should be seen which factors we need to act on, so we need to do an etiology of the disease like infertility and only then do a preventive program for the same. And I'd like to ask you nicely, since you mention the constant artificial fertilization, that in medically assisted fertilization there is nothing artificial. However, it is healthy and beautiful and that is why I suggest that we not mention more artificial than medically assisted fertilisation as our law is called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7670	Thank you. Next replica, MP Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7671	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Šimac-Bonačić encouraged me to do the replica for two reasons. One is true, I agree with you, and you said that women shouldn't actually be subjected to these painful procedures more than once, and that's why 12 cells are actually being removed. He's coming back... So 9 or 10 of those cells are frozen and that's what we're talking about here, we're actually talking more about the right of a woman, a family but less about the right of a child. [[You don't understand.]] It's actually the point of this law, to talk about these ethical principles and the right of a child. And the other thing you said is not good, in this law, and it's really about criminal provisions. For reproductive cloning in France, the fine is up to 20 years in prison and 1 million euros, as well as the withdrawal of licenses to those institutions, and in our case it is at the level of criminal provisions under this law that is written like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7672	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7673	My colleague, I can only thank you for actually agreeing with my comments on the article we cited. And when we talk about the rights of a child, is there more right than actually being born as a wanted child that this law allows? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7674	Thank you. Next replica, representative of Mr. Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here we have today set out a series of points on which it is important that we disagree on some of the essential provisions of this law, but I would like to replicate to my colleague in terms of her proposal for Article 56 that this is exactly one key provision that must now be changed. What my colleague Babic said, where there is manipulation and even cloning under this bill, a single criminal sentence is intended, not a criminal responsibility, when we know in some countries like France that up to 20 years in prison can be obtained. It is precisely something that warns that this bill is not designed according to the measure of infertile couples, according to the measure of the child and taking into account the rights of the child but too much to the extent of those who wrote it, and I say that they obviously also have a material interest in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7676	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7677	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, I'm glad to have the same opinion again, at least on that article of the law, that there are no appropriate penalties and that we can't put all those points under those up to 250,000 kuna, but for now it can be processed according to this law. However, in order to put in criminal proceedings, we must make changes to the Penal Code, which I essentially said in my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7678	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Health Minister Rajko Ostojic wants to be manifested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, don't worry, I won't be ten minutes as far as I can tell. 68 seconds. Thank you for your consulting debate, thank you for your suggestions, thank you, I expect amendments, no matter what your obligation is in the second reading, but knowing the character, the heart, the argumentation even, I expect amendments in the first reading. Mr. Djurovic left, a member of the HDSSB, and unfortunately, he cares about numbers, and the figures are scientific. 18% of the world, unfortunately, suffers or has been diagnosed with infertility. He says I don't know how you got the data, and that's the same as in the democracy festival. He knows how much his party won in the last election. They don't know if they'll win the next election. In medicine, in science it's justified to you, of course. Yeah, 18%. I'm sorry my colleague Djurovic left. But he's already had experience asking questions on the current, respecting unargumented sources. So for all scientific, professional, any other answers, questions are available to you. Thank you for your conciliance and I see, I see that when you discuss every word and that your mission, as well as my help, is to help our people, our citizens, help and here in this diagnosis. Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7680	Thank you. I'm giving you a break and we'll be back to work at 15.00 hours. Next up for debate at 15.00 hours, MP Boris Blazekovic. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Next for an individual debate, MP Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here comes my turn. The very Law on Medical Aided Insemination and its essence has been discussed by many, both Minister and many Assembly representatives, and on behalf of the HNS Club, also spoke colleague Sonja König and Mr Igor Coleman, and I would like to speak in a few words very briefly about the importance of this law from the position of human rights and civil liberties. A man is born with four outstanding fundamental rights – the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness. And these are the rights that we gain by birth and no one has the right to take them away from us. And as citizens, or citizens of the state, it is our duty to provide them and to protect them. Modern civilization has brought untold technological possibilities to simplify life, but also to facilitate the achievement of our ambitions, to show our creativity, to realize our talents. We live in times that are technological and with scientific knowledge amazing, simply superior, a man would say perfect. The time in which we are fortunate to live in modern medicine is one of the key activities that has enabled human health, better life, extended the lives of citizens and citizens and helped to improve the fundamental rights of every citizen, or citizen – the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness. We Liberals believe in science. After relevant scientific evidence, we do not waste time on additional doubts and further questioning of the speculation about content. We accept scientific knowledge, believe that they are universal property and that they must be used to raise the quality of life of each individual, or individual of that society as a whole. A properly understood and placed modern medicine has become a full instrument that can improve fundamental human rights. One of the achievements of modern medicine that makes us more free, more secure and happier is medically assisted insemination. And that is why this law is so important, and that is why the provisions of this law are so important to the many citizens of this country. This law allows primarily women, but also men, families to achieve their freedom and happiness. And in the end, I would agree with those who think that every day and every hour is a delay in making a decision, i.e. The law is irrevocably lost for all those whose medically assisted insemination procedure is so important and the only way to achieve the fullness of happy life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7683	Thank you. On your exhibit, we have one replica, Agent Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, let me just mention to my colleague Blažekovic, of course we also accept on this side the science and science of the 21st century, and we think it's a universal thing, that it's not a worldview. And what does the science of the 21st century tell us? That life, human life, begins with conception. And that's what we just want to respect. Which you yourself said was right to live, but for everyone. Not that politicians determine when human life will begin, it's not for us to determine it, and it's especially not for us or for doctors to determine who can and who can't realize that life, who will be frozen and who can't. So we respect life, but for everyone. And that is why we believe that there are no good solutions in this law because it discriminates there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7685	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7686	Thank you very much. This is one of the scientific knowledge presented by fellow Stier, other scientific knowledge tells other data. I'm not going to get into the measure of things. I would just add, my colleague has given me the opportunity, that this law gives another extremely important element of human rights, which is the right to choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7687	Thank you. The next one for the debate was the individual representative Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7688	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Although this is the first reading of the law, I will give some sort of persuasion and personal thinking in my debate. Namely, this is about a complex law that opens up a number of questions from ethical, bioethical, legal, sociological and civilizational issues, so everyone on the law needs to give their opinion and make a contribution so that this law becomes more qualitative. Namely, when the minister was in the Assembly, he mentioned the mission that we all have together with the government, I would also complete that mission with vision, mission and goals and try to explain that the vision of all of us is better Croatia, that the mission is to help couples who are infertile, and that the goal is to resolve infertility and at least one part increase in the birth rate of the Republic of Croatia. The medically assisted methods of fertilisation are the most common and most important treatment of infertility that we know today. A high frequency and frequency of infertility growth has been observed in developed countries of the world, which is now becoming a serious social but individualized problem that needs to be discussed. For example, in the countries of Europe, North America, Australia, and New Zealand, some 100 million couples are infertile. In fact, somewhere around 12% of such couples look for methods of assisted fertilization to improve their marital status, or to have children. The estimates show that this rate is over 18% of couples that are infertile and that some six and a half thousand procedures are performed annually to help fertilize, and that the number of procedures from year to year is growing somewhere on the basis of eight to ten, even over ten percent. What concerns him about what he was particularly concerned about was that success depends on the age of a woman and that she is vice-proportional to old age. So the method of medically assisted fertilisation can also be observed from the point of view that 1 to 4% of such children are born annually, in Croatia it is 2.4%. The goal is to reach 4% if possible. If we compare the Fertile Indicators in Denmark with Croatia, Denmark is very interesting because per area and per population and even in the strength of our currency, and we are approximately equal, the ratio of one to one, with a high contribution to in vitro fertilisation, the fertility rate in Denmark is increased from 1.65 to 1.72 while in the Republic of Croatia from 1.38 is increased to 1.42, which means that we are also coughing for the Danes. It is important to note that even since the start of the medically assisted fertilisation procedure, since the first British woman was born in 78 years, it has been a very long time and that the success was somewhere between 1 and 5%, modern science and medicine with new knowledge achieves that result somewhere between 40 and 50%. What is particularly important is that because of the use as I have already said modern and verified biomedical methods in the creation of a zygot or fertilized egg cell, then pregnancy and delivery do not apply biotechnology methods or knowledge, there is no genetic manipulation with this embryo. In this case we help such couples, and as the minister said in his opening part, infertility is considered a form of diagnosis that we are trying to sort out in some way. In this presentation, I would also remind myself of the fact that since the first medically assisted fertilisation procedure in the Republic of Croatia, it has been almost thirty years and that this child will be full of thirty years in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not sure, I was out for a moment, but I don't think anyone mentioned that fact. The purpose of this law that we are discussing today is to allow women and couples the most modern methods of treatment used in the world to achieve their desired parenting. But what is very important and what I think should be stressed is that this law regulates the conditions for the exercise of rights while the old law regulates assumptions for the exercise of rights, which is an essential and essential difference to be discussed today. The old law, which was very rigid, dares to say in a conservative act, has reversed well the treatment of infertility in the Republic of Croatia and a large number of women and couples have imposed different restrictions on the right to decide on their reproductive rights and the right to the desired offspring. This law also defines the rights and obligations of both parents and children by respecting the European Union directives. On the other hand, it is also necessary to stress the fact that the Republic of Croatia, by adopting this law, confirms consistency in respect of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine to prohibit human beings from cloning, so that there is no speech in this section of the law. It is certainly necessary to highlight those six principles that I personally hold to be the most important, which are: the principle of justice and the principle of accessibility. The principle of justice because discrimination between women and couples who have previously been treated before the medically assisted fertilisation procedure has been abolished must sometimes undergo a very painful preparation, legal and psychological counselling procedure, and the principle of availability that allows all interested people to treat and fertilise in vitro in the Republic of Croatia without going abroad. And this time I remind my colleagues and colleagues that in 83rd year, the Republic of Croatia was the seventh country in the world to successfully perform in vitro fertilisation and medically assisted fertilisation. The new law contains a number of solutions that are definitely better than the old 2009 law, primarily the possibility of freezing egg cells and donating embryos that I personally hold to be a major contribution and a major step forward that this law sets out as the minister himself said at the very top of the most modern law in the European Union. We also know ourselves that as a country, we are one of the leading countries in Europe for organ transplants, I see no reason why we should not be the leading state in Europe and this process of medically assisted insemination. What is also a fact that so far, according to the current law, a large amount of money has been spent on medically assisted fertilization in women over the age of forty and that success was less than half a percent, and that is precisely why such a form of law so that young couples try to channel and focus on planning their pregnancy at an earlier age. Perhaps, in the end, only my debates to underline the parallel, the Member States of the European Union in which the legislative regulation regulated heterologous procedures, since today there have been a lot of debates on the donation of the embryos, of the twenty-seven European Union countries, fifteen countries have allowed the donation of the embryos, or if you want in a relative amount, it is somewhere around 57% at the level of the European Union countries. And finally let me point out one minor illogicality that I think should be corrected within this law until the second reading, which is Article 5(1) of point 25 relating to the definition of a human being, whose definition is taken from the Convention and the Additional Protocol equivalent to the definition of the Penal Code, i.e. the illogical nature in Article 56(1) of the 19th paragraph relating to infringements, which, in college with the Penal Code of Article 97a, where in this law, the bill provides for a criminal penalty of seventy to twenty-five thousand kunas as a violation, and for the same thing in the Criminal Law, I repeat Article 97a of the Penal Code, where the sentence of six months to five years. So if something has already been characterized in the Criminal Code as a criminal offence, this law cannot be interpreted as an offence, but must be sanctioned as well, so I propose a correction of that article. And as in individual debates, democratic customs say whether the law is supported or not, I am using this opportunity to make it clear that I will support the adoption of this law. I deeply believe that he is just first of all and that a large number of couples in the Republic of Croatia will make at least a little happier than they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7689	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. So here I am going back to the opening presentation of the minister who said that this might be the most beautiful gift for Croatia's Europe and that by doing so, the Republic of Croatia is entering a circle of European countries which, according to the most modern method, implemented into legislation. I think it should be taken into account that there is no common European acquis on this legislation. It should be taken into account that it is visible from the very proposal for a law from its initial part in the introduction that legislative practice is very different from the European State to the European State. Thus, there is no uniform model compared to the use of ova or embryos or male sex cells. There is therefore no uniform European or legislative practice or even similar or uniform practice in the EU. It's about practice itself. When it comes to the principles on which the law is based, the minister also cited 6 principles on which the law is based, I will not repeat them, but what does not have is the principles of ethics, morality, that is, the principle of ethics in relation to any system of ethics as the principle on which the law is not stated in the principles under which this bill was drawn up. This law itself is practically the most liberal, possibly European law on artificial insemination procedures. In its application, it will likely be one of the most expensive European laws. I've consulted a dozen gynecologists and several colleagues who deal with the issue of artificial insemination, none of them knew anything about this bill. So, we say that the public debate took place for 80 days, so none of them were familiar with the proposal of this law, and they do not know at all what legal solutions this law makes including three colleagues and colleagues working on artificial insemination procedures. It's amazing, but it's true. So, so much for the public debate. And they're asking me what this proposal is about to discuss. They don't even know I don't know that on the Croatian Parliament's website I can look at this bill, so I told them to take a look. What else can I tell you? So I'm not sure how much and what part of this profession and the people who do these procedures are really familiar with this bill. Now when it comes to the law itself, we've talked a lot about the law like this, the law like this, so I would just once again refer to those basic settings and those basic problems that I see as a secular and Christian problem in this law. Therefore, 12 egg cells are taken by the process of separation from the woman. Of the 12 isolated egg cells, a certain number, and it's possible that everything fertilizes and we get 12 embryos or embryos. Of these 12 embryos or embryos, two in difficult cases, three go back to conception while the remaining or the egg cells or if the woman wants embryos, then we freeze the finished embryos. What period do we freeze them for? For a five-year period on the burden of the state budget. At the end of that period of five years, these embryos in cases of repeated artificial fertilisation may be used if the woman or that couple are not required, under 1 after that end, can be destroyed, under 2 can be donated and under 3 can be subjected to their burden for another five years and on the burden of that couple or another couple to be deposited for another five years. Now who can they be donated to? They can be donated to people who are extramarital communities. In what way these persons under this law prove to be in the extramarital community, they prove the basis of a signature certificate with a public notary. Not based on a statement representing a violation that constitutes a criminal offence, but on the basis of a signature certificate with a public notary. Those who are lawyers know what includes in the categories of signature certificates with the public notary. It does not include any criminal responsibility or taking responsibility by the notaries for the truthfulness of the allegations. So in practice, this means that any two people can meet in this hallway, go to the public notebook, verify the signatures, no responsibility is known, and with these lists go away and say, "Here we are, an extramarital couple." And 3 these traps can also be donated to women who will be shown or who will be found to be infertile and are neither in the marriage nor in the extramarital community. This model requires a group to certainly open the door to the donations of the embryos of the same-sex-oriented persons or women. That's the third category. That part, therefore, about the manipulation of the cover and about their donation around the very weak criteria of monitoring the donation and use of these embryos and what I personally do not find acceptable to my worldview and which is why I cannot support such a legal solution. And what I've said before is, in fact, the Law of Perception is very conservative with us until we actually don't in a very liberal way allow a heterologous donation of embryos to people who aren't biological parents or fathers or mothers. It's also a question of the identity of the donor. Thus, this law determines that a child has the right to know after being 18 years old who his biological parent or parent is, including a donor, that is, his parents need to know from their parents, and then contact the records that will give him information on who his biological parent is. That's a lot of thinking if a man asks himself what it means when someone donates sperm and 20 years later knocks on his door and says here I am the person you donated to sperm 20 years ago and you are my biological father. Then the kids come after that man, and here's your biological half-brothers or half-sisters. I think you should think about whether it's such a model, a real model, and whether such rights can be provided so lightly. I'm not sure how happy I am, and how many unfortunate situations this will bring to the family in which the child grew up, his actual and not biological parents and their relationship. As far as population policy is concerned, so once again to look back on that question, I don't think this question has anything to do with population policy. Population policy in the case of proceedings of this artificial or politically correct, medically assisted fertilisation is in fact only one phrase that has no major connection. Because if we want to regulate the issue of population policy we really could and should settle it because I think it's a central social issue that will be imposed on us, not in this mandate, but imposed on this nation and this country in the long term. And yes, it needs to be arranged, it should be possible for young families to have conditions for the creation of offspring in time, that the social climate, not only financial support, but also the social climate and working conditions, and the whole environment is encouraging for young families to base, to create offspring much earlier than ever before. The causes of such a high percentage of infertility are quite clear, they are medically very clearly defined, I will not look back on them now. So the issue of prevention of infertility about which the minister is not so much oran to speak about, the issue of infertility prevention, and how we can social growth and infertility prevent is very clear, however, it is a question for the Ministry of Health. So I'm saying in total, as a person, I have nothing against medically assisted insemination, although it should be done, it should help people who have problems, but all of these procedures regarding the manipulation of entanglements and their use I couldn't agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7691	Thank you. Next for debate, MP Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7692	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I know that a law on medically assisted insemination is to be passed in the Croatian Parliament, but we need to pass the law that supports ethics and that supports our way of thinking and our way of life. As far as this bill is concerned, such as, in addition to the proposed laws are scientific, medical, legal and ethical in many parts of the disputed, unacceptable and questionable, the law leaves a lot of room for manipulation, arbitrary interpretation and abuse. It is the impression that the aim of the legislator is to legalise certain procedures and practices, not defining clearly certain situations which will arise and which should be foreseen with the application of such proposed solutions. Thus, Article 3(2) states: "The procedures prescribed by this law are carried out to achieve conception, pregnancy and the birth of a healthy child, in accordance with the requirements of modern medical science and experience, with special regard to the protection of women's health, the reduction of the risk of treatment and the well-being of offspring, and scientific research shows exactly the opposite, that poorer stimulation and creation of up to three embryos is less harmful to women's health than 12 embryos in one cycle. You've got it on the Internet. Article 7(2): In the process of homologous extra-body fertilisation, a controlled stimulation of ovulation should be used in accordance with modern biomedical knowledge by obtaining a maximum of 12 ovulation cells. All 12 egg cells can be fertilized from that number. In accordance with medical achievements in the sex organ of the woman, the introduction of no more than two embryos is permitted, respecting the principle of traceability. The remaining traps or egg cells are frozen. Article 6 says: The remaining embryos not introduced into women's sex organs are kept on the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the health ministry (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry of Health) for up to 5 years. After a period of 5 years, the traps with the consent of donors are given to achieve pregnancy and the birth of a couple who agree to such a procedure. In the event that spouses or extramarital spouses wish to extend the holding of the embryo for a further five years, they are required to bear the cost of keeping. Article 7 also says: the donation of the embryo is allowed exclusively for couples treated for infertility in the Republic of Croatia. What is incompletely regulated? This is an area that opens up space to numerous manipulations, so if, after a 5-year period, parents do not agree to donate their embryos and want to keep them safe, but they do not have the money to pay for the other five years. What is the fate of the embryo after 10 years in case the parents paid for the other 5 years, and the embryos remain unused? What if even after 10 years parents are asking for the protection of their embryos, but they can't pay or want to pay. The law did not resolve the fate of about 12,000 frozen embryos that exist in Croatian hospitals, many of which have been kept for more than 10 years. The donation of embryos is obviously not related to citizenship, it is important that the couple comes to Croatia for treatment, while the donation of sex cells does not have such a restriction, so trade with abroad. Article 8: when in the medically assisted fertilisation procedure it is not possible to use one of the spouses or extramarital mates’ own sex cells or when the medically assisted fertilisation is carried out to prevent the transfer of severe hereditary disease to the child. In the medically assisted fertilisation procedure, donor sex cells may be used for the purpose of carrying out the heterologous fertilisation procedure. And second, exceptionally subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article, in the medically assisted fertilisation procedure, the donated embryos of spouses or extramarital comrades resulting from a homologous fertilisation procedure that spouses or extramarital spouses of whom the embryos do not wish to benefit from their own procreation with their explicit written consent. As for Article 8, in the case of the donation of embryos, that child will have two moms and two dads, one of whom has no right to know about him, but after 18 years, the child has the right to know about them, and the other parents have a duty to make it known to the child. Is it possible to give or give a living creature at all? The child here becomes a matter where it is legalized to deny a child the right to biological parents, and by defining itself from a biological father and mother to donors. A written consent is required for parents who give up their rights to a child, and it is not difficult to imagine a situation in which many would later repent because they would know that they still have a living child somewhere and would try to establish relations with a child. Article 10(1), the right to medically assisted fertilisation, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 4 of this Act, shall be subject to the age and professional capacity of a woman and of a man who is married, or in an extramarital community and who, in view of the age and general health conditions, are capable of parenting a child. Item 2, the right to medically assisted insemination on the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the ministry, has women until the age of 42. Article 3(3), the right to medically assisted fertilisation referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall be established by a woman who has identified the indistinguishability of other forms of treatment. And paragraph 4, women over the age of 42 and women whose ovarian reserve tests are unfavourable, the doctor is obliged to warn of poor treatment results, the risks of treatment and pregnancy and the risks to the child. The area is unclearly defined. The conditions do not state the nationality of the couple, but the cost goes to the burden of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. What if foreign citizens turn to the proceedings? The concept of life can be widely understood without determining the upper age limit until women, and men can also access the procedures of medically assisted fertilisation. And there may also be situations where women aged 55 or 60 are paying the procedure to have a baby with a donated egg cell of some younger woman or sperm of their own or unknown partner. In contrast to Article 1 which states that the right to medically assisted fertilisation is subject to women and men in the marriage and extramarital community, hence the father and mother in Article 3. Women without partners who in their own right are opposed to the institution of the family as a community of fathers, mothers and children. The child in the beginning deprives the rights of both parents. The question is, how can infertility be established in women without partners and without regular sexual relations? Article 12, or out-of-marriage spouses, have the right to notify of possible forms of natural family planning, the possibility of treating infertility to other means of parenting such as adoption, especially if both women and men are infertile. They have a right, but who's bound to make sure they do it. The law does not state what other forms of treatment are infertility and does not oblige doctors to any duty in this regard. This Regulation shall enter A psychological or psychotherapeutic counselling may be possible prior to the homologous fertilisation procedure of spouses or extramarital mates. Article 2 Legal and psychological or psychotherapy must be conducted prior to the heterologous fertilisation procedure. Article 3 A master’s degree of psychology or a specialist in psychiatry is required to be informed of the possible psychological consequences of the procedure of medical help insemination. About the counseling of the magistrate, psychologist or specialist psychiatrist issues written confirmation. The law acknowledges that the NPO procedure is related to the subsequent psychological consequences of a contradictory provision that does not oblige couples in the homologous procedure to consult, but at the same time obliges the doctor to introduce such couples to the consequences. This Regulation shall enter Married or outside marriage mates individually or together may withdraw consent and give up the medically assisted fertilisation procedure until semen, cells, or egg cells or traps have been introduced into the body of the woman. The medically assisted insemination procedure is suspended by the statement of withdrawal of the consent of one or both of the spouses, or outside the spouse. Article 4 After the withdrawal of the consent referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the sexual cell shall be destroyed and the embryo shall be stored for the purpose of giving to another spouse, or outside the couple. By the time the conception occurred, when the parents gave up the follow-up process, they lost the right to the child. The embryos are being stored. For how long? What if no one wants to take it? It is stored for the purpose of giving, and it is not known in advance to whom or whether it will be donated to anyone. This Regulation shall enter In clinical hospital centres performing medically assisted fertilisation procedures, banks of sexual cells, sexual tissues and embryos may be established. Paragraph 2 says the activities of the bank of sexual cells, sex tissues and embryos are collection, processing, freezing, storage and distribution of sex cells, sexual tissues and embryos. So, for the first time in Croatia, a bank of embryos or a bank of living things will be introduced. This Regulation shall enter The donated sex cells of one person may be used for the medically assisted fertilisation procedure until the birth of up to three children in one or more different families. Article 2 The use of the sex cells of one donor or one donor or of the embryos of spouses is prohibited after it has been established that three children are born. Paragraph 3 says, "When the donated sex cells achieve the birth of three children, the remaining sex cells are destroyed." Fourth. When three children are born, the remaining traps are not to be donated. So why the restriction of three children when they are both brothers and sisters? In any case, situations may arise that these children of the same biological parents from different families in which they live get to know and marry once. After the birth of three children of the same biological parents, the sex cells are destroyed, and the remaining embryos are not allowed to donate what other means must be destroyed or served for experiments. So, there's a few more articles, but I see my time is up. I will not support this law, because this law is so liberal that in the world only four states have more liberal laws than this, which are America, Brazil, Australia and Canada.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7693	Thank you. Next for an individual debate, MP Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is today a bill of law that should articulate the solidarity of our society with those infertile couples who wish to have children, whose modern science can help. I think it is extremely important to point out right at the outset, regardless of our party differences, that we all have to make an effort to understand as best as possible what our fellow citizens have to do with the problem of infertility and how their joy is when they can become parents. It is also necessary in this assembly to condemn every form of discrimination and repeat that every human being, whether conceived by natural means or artificial insemination, has equal dignity. Each child is always a blessing to his parents and to the whole society. Every human being like Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also has the right to live and that is the main framework for a decision that we must make in the Croatian Parliament. So we must and we want to express the solidarity of our society with infertile couples. This solidarity is demonstrated by concrete measures and an allocation of public money. That's the job of the Parliament. And that is why we must responsibly use and distribute taxpayers' money in accordance with the Croatian Constitution, which guarantees every human being, every child conceived, the right to live. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament should not allow the state to take money from Croatian citizens to freeze or destroy human lives, which is exactly what the Government is proposing today. The government also wants all Croatian citizens to have money to pay for artificial insemination to those women who are not married or have a partner but are either alone or perhaps in some same sexual relationship. I am convinced that the vast majority of Croatian citizens do not want to give their money for it because they believe that every child has the right to both mom and dad. This bill does not recognise the right of a child but condemns a child in Article 10 to be without a father already in the beginning of his life. Why does the government do that? I'm sure it's not about taking care of the kids. We can ask ourselves if this is primarily because of the material interest of those who wrote the law, who are also at least some of them the owners of private artificial insemination clinics that will be completely safe and rich in doing so, who have thrown out the law criminal responsibility for the sale of human beings and who, through Article 55 of this proposal, have made sure that they monitor themselves, which actually opens up the possibility of doing whatever they want. My colleagues and colleagues, when we read in the paper that there is no money for children's oncology in Rijeka, that by the decision of the Deputy Prime Minister of Milanka Opačić, the funds for children with cerebral paralysis are reduced, that sewerage is leaking into the operating hall of Klaic's children's hospital, we get a proposal asking Croatian citizens to give their money to freeze human embryos that are too much as if it were an article, not a human being, about... which, according to the Croatian Constitution, has the same right to live. This government is taking that right away from him, and I guess it's something he wants to prove to God's ideological beliefs. And I wonder if he already wants to show his ideology on artificial insemination why they did not see themselves as an example of the Social Democratic Government in Denmark that abolished funding, or even before the liberal one, abolished the funding and freezing of the taxpayers' money. It saved 26m euros. Shouldn't we also be able to focus Croatian citizens' money on children's oncology or on the great needs of Croatian health rather than go to private owners? I wonder why the government doesn't want to include NaProtechnology that doesn't freeze human lives, which achieves more pregnancy, which cures infertility than artificial insemination and which is at least 10 times cheaper than artificial insemination. Why isn't it in HZZO's system? Is it in the government's interest to help infertile couples or to help the lobby of artificial insemination? My colleagues and colleagues in December last year have sworn that we will stick to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Constitution is very clear in its article 21 only seven words must be remembered – every human being has the right to live, and life begins with conception. It is not a matter of worldview, as Prime Minister Milanovic said in the current class, it is accepting the conclusion of the 21st century science. This is the acceptance and judgment of the EU Court of Justice of 21 October 2011 which confirmed in interpreting the EU's legal gain that human life begins with conception, i.e. that every human embryo or embryo is a human being. And that's why they can't freeze, destroy or manipulate themselves like they're proposing. This bill of law in Article 9 and Article 27 goes so far as to enable the selection of human embryos and even gender selection to God, of course, because of the avoidance of disease, but what about the traps, with these human beings who have not passed the selection? Are we going to destroy them? Friends and colleagues, let us not play God, not on us politicians, but not on doctors to determine who can live and who we will freeze or destroy. It's not up to us politicians to determine when life begins, but it's up to us to accept what the science of the 21st century tells us, which is that human life begins with conception. We look forward to every new life whether it is conceived by natural or artificial insemination, but let us respect every human life and, regardless of our party differences, accept the culture of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7695	Thank you very much. In your debate, we have one replica, Pandek Drazenko's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7696	Thank you. I would like to point out to an esteemed colleague who is now talking about the fact that this law does not respect the right to live. I would like to remind you that according to article 15 of this law that you adopted from HDZ, "the number of embryos entered into the body of a woman cannot be greater than those that are in line with professional achievements and experiences promise a successful procedure of medical insemination and, if possible, limit the risk of multiple pregnancy." So according to this law so far, it could have been fertilized in 3 cases, but if it was so medically intensified, it could have been possible for only one of them to enter, as far as I read in Article 15. Therefore, in that case, those two embryos which were fertilized and not carried were automatically destroyed or the excess of the remaining cells were stored only while these traps which were therefore not used in the fertilisation process were destroyed. So I think you're now representing one point of view, and then you should have been consistent with the adoption of this law and so you're going to demand that all of the substitutes be entered. And according to this law, it was either destroyed or otherwise stored. You also noted in your discussion that, essentially, women who are not married to you, as I understand it, should not be entitled to this procedure medically assisted fertilization. I would remind you that according to Article 14. The constitution is all equal before the law. So women who are married and women who are out of marriage would, according to the article of the Constitution adopted by this House, have to be equal. Therefore, the process of medical insemination should also include women who are married and who are out of marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7697	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's an esteemed colleague I'm extremely glad that here by one SDP agent you are expressing your desire to respect every human life and not to destroy or freeze human traps. I absolutely support it, and if you want together, we can make an amendment to the current law to ban it, though. I support such an initiative. What you said differently I would just read you article 11 of this bill where it says "marriage or extramarital community must exist at the time of the introduction of sex cells and embryos into the body of a woman." So this article, which this government even suggests, I think is enough to answer your question why marriage or the extramarital community is needed. Oh, yeah, I absolutely represent it, and I think that the vast majority of Croatian citizens also want to protect the child's right to have both father and mother.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7699	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7700	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We've been listening all day about the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, and it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, it was, In the end, we didn't agree exactly because of those ice-freezing mattresses. But here, in fact, one key question is how important is the role of the state, profession, world-class and legislation in the Republic of Croatia today, and how many individuals in the design of ethical principles and moral standards of medical profession. They are actually principles based on the historical continuity of the ancient Christian tradition of protecting the dignity of human beings. It is also known that the basic standards and ethical principles of medical professions have been formulated in the Hippocratic oath since 2.5 thousand years ago have been slightly modified in 1948 by the so-called "Hypocrates". The Geneva oath, which among other things I do not quote, tells doctors who take the oath "that they will absolutely respect human life from the very beginning". Why doctors? Because today, Mr. Secretary was talking about the fact that this law was not only attended by doctors but also by biologists who do not take this oath. Of course I say these medical professions maintain the continuity of medical ethics and in the spirit of responsibility to temptations and risks in their profession. These risks of temptation are particularly high today at the beginning of the 21st century. In such circumstances, UNESCO Member States made a decision in 2002 on the basis of ethics among the first five priority areas of action. Today in the world we are faced with the domination of the dictatorship of ethical relativism with a global crisis of both moral, spiritual and intellectual, a crisis of a simple system of values that reflects all aspects of our existence on our awareness of the dignity of human beings. Whether or not the proposings of a possible legislative regulation which would commit to the confidentiality of the data situation to a possible incest. And most importantly, whether potential donors and legislators are aware of the provisions on the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, which inter alia obliges the States and their institutions to primarily take care of the interests of the child, which is very important, and that the right of the child to know his parents and to enjoy their care. I also remind you that the Republic of Croatia is a party to a convention that has the power of law. Today science and medicine are tempted by neglecting their own distinctive ethical dimensions, manipulating the definition of the beginning and end of life, experimenting with embryos and fetuses and euthanasia. In this context, I reiterate my commitment to the Hippocratic oath, to my own conscience and common sense that seeks to know the truth and dignity of a human being from the moment of conception to the end of life because all stages of human being development are genetic continuity, autonomy and uniqueness. A significant shift in the real perception of the beginning of life has prompted the recent decision of the EU Court of Justice that we heard today in Luxembourg since 21.10.2011. This was related to the case of a German researcher in this Greenpeace case in which the Court of Justice actually protected and stressed that no national system or international conventions define that human life begins with the birth of a child but with conception. He would also point out the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg's decision from early November 2011 in the case of a lawsuit against the Republic of Austria that does not allow medically assisted fertilisation with the help of donated sex cells. The Court found by respecting the differences in the legal provisions of certain states that, in fact, Austrian legislation with the said ban does not violate the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, noting that Austria gives priority to the welfare of the child, i.e. gives the child the right to know who his biological parents are. And that's why there are a lot of open questions that I haven't heard anyone talk about today, and I'm asking them here. What about the right to inherit children born? What about the right of born and frozen children? Did a man like us hear the right as a creature to play creator? Shall we use... to raise the culture of death? The killing of embryos is euthanasia and we know or should be known that a declaration of ban on euthanasia has been adopted. Who actually has the right to select embryos? For example, if a married couple dies, a husband cannot be implanted into a woman’s body and single women may. What about your father's discrimination? What about child discrimination and his growing up without one of his parents? What about other medically assisted insemination technologies? - Prothtechnologies? Medically assisted insemination should help infertile couples to reach so many wanted children, but certainly protect human life, support it, and treat it, which means that it should be on the side of the culture of life. This way she puts herself almost perversely in the service of the culture of death which she agrees you will agree immorally and is not allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7701	Thank you. Next up for the debate, attorneys Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7702	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'm going to do with a few sentences, I'm going to get involved in the debate about this law, the more I've been able to be in this Parliament, in the Parliament in the last term when this now applicable Law on Medical Insemination was passed at the time by an emergency procedure. We discussed him one afternoon and night. What would be said away from the eyes of the public. I welcome the decision of our ministry, Minister, to make it two readings of this law. In the meantime, a very extensive public debate has been held, and I believe that some of what is being said here today will also find places to improve and such a bill. Unlike the one that was now in force, the law meets several principles that the 2007 law violated or did not respect at all and did not respect them. It is primarily based on the principle of choice because all the procedures currently offered by modern medicine are available without the intention of imposing any finished solutions on anyone. What is very important to me is based on the principle of women and children’s health. This principle of health and the most optimal treatment choices was the most objections when we discussed the past law and this was one of the biggest remarks that was not taken into account the most optimal way primarily for women's health. It is based on the principle of justice because it finally abolishes discrimination against women, and then couples who, before the IPO procedure, had to go through a very painful procedure of legal and psychological counselling and finally, because of the principle of availability because I honestly believe that this law will finally make it possible for all those who unfortunately have infertility problems to come naturally to such a wanted child to achieve their right here in Croatia. I would also like to say a few things about certain articles of this law in terms of what I think might improve, perhaps even consider a second reading. First of all, I particularly welcome the provision of Article 10 which speaks of what users of the right to medically assisted fertilisation, especially since the medically assisted fertilisation is subject to the right of a woman who has no partner and who has been diagnosed with infertility and inability to conceive naturally. I especially stress that. And I can't agree with all those who are against this article in the law, that's more because if we're against a woman who has been found, and lives alone, she's found infertility, that we take away her right to come to a child medically aided, and at the same time we're aware that a woman who can take a natural path has the right to choose to stay in a different state, to have a child and live alone. Does this mean that we may be neglecting an entire category of single parents who have not become single parents just because they got divorced or their mate died but are single parents because, say, a woman decided to start with a man and raise a child herself? I do not think that the family in which such a child is raised is a less valuable family and that God does not give such a family in Croatia we neglect or consider them less valuable. When we talk about marriages and extramarital communities, marriages and extramarital communities are, of course, equalized according to all the positive regulations in Croatia, it is based on the Family Law which therefore treats marriages and extramarital communities in the same way. But you know when we talk about it, we have no right to take away a child's right to live with his father, and not only with his mother, but then I ask the question that we are all aware that every fifth marriage was divorced in Croatia in 2010, and in these divorced marriages nearly 4500 children lived in 2010. So that's how kids stay, whether she wants it or not, live without one parent. I don't think that those kids tomorrow, if it's all as well between ex-partners, that those kids are still going to grow up to be responsible, adults who will know so in the future are going to be able to live. So I'm putting it in a plane somewhere, and I don't think it's less valuable then that women who, because of health problems, because of their infertility, I don't think we have the right to take away the possibility of medically assisted start-ups, or having a child that they're going to take care of in the future. In addition, let’s just take a little bit of absurdity, among all these divorced marriages, of course, it doesn’t say anything about how many of those in which artificial insemination occurred, so eventually these children eventually, regardless of what their parents were in the marriage community, ended up without a father. So I think that in this way one great injustice is actually corrected. In this regard, I would ask Mr. Deputy Minister to then, given that Article 10 provides the possibility for women without a partner to be able to provide medically assisted fertilisation, then I would ask for it to go through all these other articles such as Article 12, Article 13, which discusses information on medically assisted fertilisation, which speaks of legal and psychological counselling before medically assisted insemination. So that's something that's missing. Thus, besides marriage and extramarital partners, there is a need to stand, add inside, and the right of a woman living alone to have the right to pass or receive such information in such a case. What I would like to warn you, I think that the minister is already at a meeting and I have noticed it myself, I am asking you in Article 10(1), says the right to medically assisted fertilisation has a full-age, business-qualified woman and men who are married, or an extramarital community, and now, please, I find this extremely problematic, who, given the age of life and the general health condition, are capable of parenting a child. I think this is discriminatory compared to everyone else who has become fathers and mothers, and no one has questioned them whether they are capable of parenting a child. I think that's a questionable question, in one set, the minister actually agreed, and I don't think I know how or how it's going to be determined that someone is capable of parental care. We who have our children, who we've married, etc., haven't been asked anything like that, so I don't think it's necessary to stand here either, and if it's about something else, then maybe I'd ask it to be clarified. And finally, about the right of a person to look into donor data, therefore anonymity or not anonymity, I am one of those who thinks, who is actually an advocacy, except in cases where there is a possible possibility of some genetic disease or some different medical situation because I simply believe that these families who, after a painful, possibly long-term, multi-annual attempts of artificial insemination, have come to the child, agree with someone who said that such families have the right to remain happy for the rest of their lives, and not that, at some point, it could possibly disrupt or completely break such a community. I'm going to end up with a dilemma that may not have been discussed here today, but since we've been addressed by women oncology patients who can't, because of their diagnosis they're not able to express pregnancy or they're unable to give birth to a child, of course, it's a surrogate issue of motherhood. I would ask to consider whether it is possible, or whether it is acceptable, I don't know if anyone about it today, is possibly through article 31 supplement, so I agree with the ban... , to carry out medically assisted insemination for the birth of a child, etc., teaching a child after medically assisted insemination or replacement motherhood. [[You don't understand.]] I think you could go further, but here I am leaving for another reading, except in the case of cancer patients who, given their diagnosis, are unable to carry out pregnancy or are unable to give birth to a child, because their diagnosis doesn't diminish their desire to have a motherhood anyway. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7703	Thank you. At your presentation, we have one replica, representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I get it right, fellow Sobol, then she's actually talking about the tragic exceptions that apply to single mothers right now, with whom some 4,000 children live, and they make up one whole, one family. In fact, what you say when, for example, the father of a child died, escaped, when the family was harassed, divorces, etc. So these are the exceptions in society. He says there's 20% that's the number. So these tragic exceptions you, by applying this Law, actually want to turn into tragic rules where you're going to increase the exact number of single mothers. Is this the goal of our society and our country to increase the goal of single mothers, or is our family in the full sense of that word, family, according to the Family Law, made up of husband and wife, the first article of that law. So what exactly do you want to say here? Or the goal is for this society to be a single mother's society. That's why I gave you the replica, not the correction of the incorrect assumption that you have the opportunity to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7705	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Attorney Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7706	I think I'm right when I say I was talking about single parents. I'm sorry, these are very different things to say after all. The way you speak to single mothers. I know most of the kids in the divorce belong to mothers, but I'm sorry, there's also 15% of single fathers among those divorced. So, I'm talking about the single parent category. I'm sorry, that's not even the exception. 20% of one number is one fifth. For me, it's no exception. [[Intruding Grubisic: 50% should be increased.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7707	You didn't get the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7708	I answer to you now. I'm just, my debate went in the direction of warning some things that I didn't seem to have thought enough about. And when I was talking about mothers who, or women who choose to live alone and get carried away with any man they think might be the father of their child, should they be discriminated because they decided to live alone and raise their child. If we don't consider them, and I don't think that because we care about single parents as a society, then I don't think we have the right to make such a thing impossible for women who have found infertility and that the state should allow them medically assisted insemination. I think in that case,...... Come on, Mr. Grubisic, you're a doctor, I'm not a doctor. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7709	I'm sorry, Mrs. Sobol, I'm sorry. You hurt your colleague Grubisic the second time. I'm asking you to use the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Sobol, go ahead if you're not done. Thank you very much. Next up for debate Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7710	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This debate on medically assisted insemination has obviously raised many questions and I think the debate is infused de omnibus rebus what they would say to Latina about all things and others. It should remain on the subject of discussion and the subject of the bill is absolutely safe and not going wide because this topic of law is quite specific, important, complex and not easy to manage. The question also mentions how much medically assisted fertilisation will help revitalise Croatia that is recording a major demographic crisis. I believe that this law itself will not make a great contribution. But that this and the extinction of the Croatian people should actually be discussed in this House, but not within this law, I find it quite safe because neither the Parliament nor the Croatian state will need it if the Croats do not. And there's the concern of parliamentarians primarily. Secondly, I note that we don't put the law first, although the bill I am convinced is what it wants to put in place, which is that the beginning of thinking, and also the adoption of laws must always be in favour of the human person and the individual person, and that means in favour of life. There's a loss of emphasis here on one side of the right person, but it's getting out of sight that it's actually the right to live. I, as a priest by belief and as a scientist on the other hand, am trying to combine these two approaches that are manifested here today, which are two paradigms of different and incompatible in my opinion. It's a paradigm or a hard-to-compatible thinking. It's a paradigm of the truth of certain authorities. They are more inclined to accept this paradigm of a certain authority, and they believe it so and think that by believing that it is scientifically proven. I may have beliefs that have not been scientifically proven, but I am trying to justify these religious beliefs as far as possible by scientific data and evidence. That's why here are these paradigms that are the opposite truth of authority and authority of truth. And it takes a lot of effort, a lot of dialogue to come up with some generally acceptable solutions. That's why I think that today when we agreed to go into normal two-reading procedure, as we say the morning is smarter than the night, so the second reading hopefully will be smarter than the first reading. That we will come up with some knowledge that will help us to approach this problem wisely. I would like to point out one more thing: we are representatives of Croatian voters, citizens of Croatia. It's a parliamentary democracy, we're representatives of the electoral body. There is also direct democracy. Direct democracy is when people bring their opinion through a referendum. Here, in this particular situation of passing this law, I think it would be good and I suggest it as an independent representative to make a decision about this law after both the other and the third parties have sufficiently expressed their views to call a referendum and that the people finally make a decision here, and not as MPs fearing responsibility for what I am going to vote for but I consider it in such an important law some people say what they think, and then politics will not say, let them say, let them state the reasons, but the final decision on such an important law I am in favour of calling a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7711	Thank you. Next up for debate, Agent Ivan Klarin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7712	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the Law on Medical Aided Insemination which was passed three years ago was one of the last laws passed by the Government, so I can say freely, it was a law that allowed no one to do anything, it was much more backward than the laws that had been passed long before it, and they governed a sensitive area of medically assisted or aided insemination. I believe that the aim of this law should be to enable parenting to all those who cannot achieve it naturally, but counting on one important thing, which is to protect the woman, her mental and physical health, aware of the consequences that women are going through during the preparation of the body for the procedure itself. Unfortunately, the old law brings a woman into an independent situation. People who can't become parents naturally will do everything they can to become and reach a child. So, they're going to put it aside, willing to risk their job, money and career at that point, everything becomes irrelevant, and there's only one goal in front of people like that, and that's a child. The state and government must be a partner to these people by making it easier for them to get to a child, and it certainly does not make it difficult for them. I would like to quote one expert as he said in 2009 when Croatia settled alongside countries that have the most restrictive laws even at the border of those countries that prohibit the procedures of medically assisted fertilisation, which is Dr. Velimir Šimunić, president of the Croatian Society for Human Reproduction. In 2009, he said, "If he insists on banning the freezing of embryos, the success of medical fertilisation will be reduced by 10%, and we will push people across the border and the legal solutions offered will reverse the medical fertilisation in Croatia." However, it is not a problem that has reversed the medical fertilisation of Croatia, but rather the problem that has dramatically dropped the number of children born to the aided insemination. A new law after three years and a lot of suffering finally allows for the freezing of embryos and women finally reduce the difficult and painfully stimulated procedures that physically and emotionally exhaust them. Hormonal therapy is one of the most difficult parts of assisted fertilisation, and it is necessary to obtain as many healthy egg cells as possible. The consciousness of each responsible doctor should be focused on making a woman go through as few of these procedures as possible, not on what happens, for example. They take out eight to nine healthy egg cells, two to three fertilized ones, they go back to the organism, and the rest are destroyed. When this procedure doesn't work as far away as possible? A woman should not receive hormone therapy again for the next six months, I am speaking from my own experience at home. How did women feel in these last three years when, after hormonal therapy and transfer, they had to wait calmly for the results of fertilisation? This is a period of tension, fear and concern, and certainly enhanced sensitivity resulting in reduced tolerance to frustration. After failing to face the fact that you are not in a different condition, inform the doctor who then reports that you can only take the next procedure in 5.6 months. Are we aware of how many couples have asked for the help of psychiatrists after such treatments? The greatest law of this law is that such situations will be avoided from now on. I must say that this law is one big step forward and that this is the law that ultimately offers everyone the right choice. In the end, I would also mention the problem faced by women who are constantly employed especially in private companies, who have made several unsuccessful attempts. We know that from the transfer to the result it goes 14 to 15 days and that in this period women use sick leave after failure they return to the company aware of the fact that they spent this period on the employer's burden. A number of such procedures in the year and an employer no longer treats such activities as their workers. I personally know a few women who, unfortunately, have lost their jobs. Now, evaluate the condition these women were in. I call on the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system to find a solution to such cases so that the state pays such a sick leave, protecting a woman to at least keep her job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7713	Thank you very much. Next up for debate, MP Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, after some five months of this assembly's activities, I must be honest, so I must say that I have experienced perhaps the deepest emotion of listening to an exhibit in this House that was so charged with positive emotions that it simply cannot leave you indifferent listening to the presentation of my colleague, Dunje Špoljar, I could not help thinking about what all women who are going through with medical support are fighting for motherhood. I also know some couples personally, I knew them before they had a child, and I knew them when, after that long procedure, they had a painful, traumatic, uncertain child. I know the glare in that mother's eyes today when the mother and one void that came to be seen while she was trying to become one. They rarely laughed, rarely even at certain times were closed to the environment, rarely satisfactorily communicated to anyone who did not have to be the world’s authority, and even a medical expert was absolutely clear that people who survived the drama were extremely unhappy. I will not enter into the details of this law nor in the controversy are the people who defend their worldview because it is their legitimate right in a democratic state, but in a democratic, secular state world-erasors do not have to and cannot be the exclusive criteria, world-famous ones to formulate legal provisions. The intensity of this law is life. The intensity of this law is that some 17% according to scientific data couples in Croatia have the right not to be alone at age, have the right to grandchildren, have the right to parenting. When a man is doing a recapitulation of his life, and everyone is working at a certain stage I've been doing it by chance at the moment I left one professional part of life behind and entered into a new profession, meaning recently, then working in that resume and analysis that the happiest moments of his life were. From my position today it was in any case a time of growing up my children and how hard it was for me then to cry in a wheelchair because I had to get up in two and a half nights because of the profession, so often I couldn't sleep, today I am deeply aware that it was the best music and the best music I've ever heard in my life. To question giving a chance, a greater chance through this law because it refers to the achievements of medical science. Because of the world's horizon or the hypothesis and even the judgment of the European Court of Justice on what is a living being, I don't think it's the only way to go. Discuss whether the beginning of life is at the moment of fertilisation whether it is a gametogenesis, whether it is the second, third, fifth phase organogenesis of embryo development if we observe a being through a spiritual and physical I think that the final, final answer will never be found in what Don Ivan Grubisic said to the conflict of the world view and science. If we look at this law through all these hypotheses and dilemmas that are open today in society, I fear that we will get involved and that many couples, many mothers, many fathers, and many families will remain deprived of the grace of children's wages in the night. And I think we have a duty to give these people a chance, especially what this law does not go into emergency procedures but goes through first and second readings we have plenty of time to look at all of its aspects. What is important for the end of saying this is not a binding law, this is a law that gives the opportunity and all those who make it regardless of their worldly horizons, and I assure you that when this law comes into force that many mothers who have lived through minimal sins in their lives, who are believers who respect both religion and God, make a decision to make their motherhood come true and at the cost of using the opportunities given by this law. Because motherhood and maternal instinct, the need to be a mother and father is one of the strongest imperatives that any living thing feels. So let's not rush into negative assessments of this law, especially its intensity. Is this a positive law and we have time and tools to scratch it, to perfect it, but let's not, for God's sakes, as some colleagues in their discussions have touched on it as a law through some kind of commercial, commercial, and... aspects is it really unacceptable when we talk about a topic like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7715	Thank you. Following the debate, MP Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7716	Thank you very much. I wanted to replicate my colleague Baranovic, namely not only the world's mirrors, the mothers as you said Christian orientations, but also others, to say, orientations and Islamic, and Jewish, and any other. It is true that these laws are positive and it is true that the chances are given to married couples, but also to others in the extramarital community, but also to women who are in a business capacity to write here and who are unable to do so, to say specifically that this method is really modern and that is relatively more successful than and easier than the one discussed by the previous law and how it was previously treated with the freezing of an egg cell. So, the law has a goal, a basic goal of helping fifty thousand, primarily fifty thousand couples in Croatia who are currently in a situation where they can't have children to get them. Fifty thousand couples, that's a hundred thousand people, if we see that a married couple is a man and a woman. Hundreds of thousands of people in Croatia said Baranovic and others longed to have their offspring, their child. And it's really the most beautiful music and not just the crying of a child, but also the grandchild, etc., the offspring to say. And in the way that my predecessors from the HDSSB have already spoken and we have been about helping each way or helping to help this way, although this is not the only way and it is the only way to help, I would say "intelligent policy" and even "let's do a little part" and "demographic reconstruction" of Croatia. We all know that about 40,000 children are born in Croatia annually, but the fact that we die between 50 and 52 thousand a year is also known. Every year, Croatia loses one city the size of Nova Gradiška, so it disappears. If we take this for a longer period or longer period, then Croatia will lose almost half a million inhabitants in 20 years. This is progressing, therefore, to increase the number of births. So as my predecessors from the club have also pointed out, we advocate demographic restoration even though there are other more natural methods about which there is not a word here and are known in the scientific public and in scientific circles that there are more natural ways or attempts to reach the birth of a child. There's no choir about it. And now someone said here it's not our place to play God, to determine the fate of embryos that are frozen at minus 196 degrees, so after not exploiting in terms of development and development, they either destroy themselves, which means the death of embryos, or they give up with the knowledge of natural parents. What does it mean to give an embryo? This means that if the child bows down and the fertilization of medically assisted fertilization succeeds, he will have two mothers and two dads. Like in that Serbian movie called "I Have Two Moms and Two Dads." She will have her natural or biological parents she may never know about, and maybe after 18 years she will, and she will have those who raised him, who were with him who listened to crying or as our colleague Baranovic said music, the most beautiful music of that child from birth so long as it lasts, like who she eats. Is that the purpose of this law, too? Is that regulated by this law? Or there's gonna be a situation where she has one mom and two dads and that's how it's gonna be. There's a lot of situations. So we're playing something that then, as someone said here, I don't know exactly who, when we look at a little situation when that child finds out or finds out who his biological father is, who he's going to be eventually with and with the inheritance and the inheritance law and the inheritance acts, whose successor he's going to be? The father who raised him and his mother or his biological father? And what about the inheritance of children who were born to that child by another mother, so the biological half-brother, half-sister? It doesn't get in the way of this law, but it does concern some other laws that don't have any links to it here in this bill. That's one thing. The second thing, it's said here that it's about the culture of life, that it's about the joy of life. It is true that if an infertile couple gets their child or two, give God as much as we can for this society and for this Croatia, because we are really in a situation where we are extinct, faster than dinosaurs, we are extinct, but these are not the only measures that could improve the birth rate and demographic restoration of Croatia than give much more attention to parents who have and who are raising children from the free kindergarten, the availability of kindergartens, free textbooks, from free school transportation of students, about reduced taxes on children's clothing, shoes and everything else, so parents would be encouraged to have more children. No, we think that this law will achieve relatively at a lower price of the effect that in fact the total Croatian policy has for 20 years that this state does not exist, no government. Do you know how many children attend kindergartens in Croatia? How much is the availability of kindergartens in Croatia? 50%, and 50% never see a kindergarten unless they have to go to a small school when they have to go. Who takes care of kindergartens? Local self - administrations or religious communities eat like that. In this regard, the State has given up except for the fact that it has to look like kindergartens that must exist in the kindergarten of norms. The other nothing. France that had wars with Germany, 1st, 2nd. World War II, Napoleon’s wars, which had lost a large population of mostly male heads, passed the law in proportion to their population losses in the war, clearly and naturally dying. We're not considering anything. Although Mr. Akrap of the Department of Demography has already been called not to quote now the name of this institution, clearly and loudly, by who knows which times he speaks and goes public with data that are frightening to the Republic of Croatia. In that sense HDSSB is for any method that we're going to at least fix this one a little bit to say I'm not going to say a blood count but this demographic picture, and it's actually the base, it's the foundation of society, but the foundation of society is family. And not only is the church saying it, so that's what Stjepan Radic said 120 years ago, 105 years ago, as if the Croatian family were the foundation of Croatian society. Just before we heard here in the debate it seems to me that Mrs. Sobol's not even instructions in the item where it says that the right to medically assisted insemination has a woman of childbearing, professional capacity. Not even a hint. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]] I'll be right there. So not even by indicating when it identifies the indistinguishability of other forms of treatment. Do you know how much abuse there has been in this Croatia since privatisation, conversion and everything else? So do you think it will be done without abuse and that legal proposal, and instead of 4,000 single parents, we'll get 10,000 of them. And believe me...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7717	Thank you. Thank you, counselor. Your time is up, I'm sorry. ... We have two replicas on your exhibit. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first representative is Dunja Špoljar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7718	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I just need to warn that a respected representative, and some before him who spoke broadcast a picture that this bill, or law, will create a hyperproduction of embryos that will be frozen somewhere in some unknown media, will be forgotten. In fact, this law, or bill of law, currently offers the opposite, finally a solution to this. In this way, from 12 egg cells on average, optimally 7 to 8 will fertilize them, from 7 to 4 develops to embryo stages, to 5 days. After that, only two embryos have the opportunity to implant and one of these will end with pregnancy, but pregnancy is not necessarily due to childbirth. All embryos that of these 5 will remain will be used in the next cycles, so in the next assisted fertilizations. A woman cannot go to new stimulation until she has used her embryos in the freezer or stored. So a row is being introduced that was not in previous laws, and therefore there are surpluses that are now being introduced. So I recommend we reconsider this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7719	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7720	Thank you very much. So you're only talking about one situation, but what if from the first time the intra uterina fertilization of two or three embryos worked, what happens to the others. They remain for five years, therefore, on the cost of the state, after which they can bow or destroy. That's what I was talking about, and you're keeping it quiet. That is why I think a good proposal by Don Ivan Grubisic on the referendum of Croatian citizens on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7721	Thank you. To your presentation, Mr. Grubisic, another replica. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Grubisic, I am taking the opportunity to take part in a debate on perhaps the most complicated legal act that will bring this assembly to parliament, and I am pleased to say that people have highlighted the values that are their priority. No one here has denied that there are no dilemmas and that the values of this law point out at the same time some are discredited. So it's very important and we're politicians, we're neither doctors nor ethicians nor we're dealing with birth policy alone, the most intelligent policy that you've advocated, but your emphasis, let's just say these policies put into question other principles or other values, let's say religious ones. We don't have the right to tell anyone that he's more valuable or less valuable because he points out his life commitment, his views. Unfortunately, it is our happiness or mission that we must decide as politicians and meet the needs of the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia on one principle, and that is the principle that no one must suffer because of this law, no one must suffer, so he has exclusions. Chuck says doctors can be excluded, that's what a colleague of mine used to say here, which is the value of the law, because of his beliefs. So doctors can exempt themselves from the application of the law itself, even from their profession and from my own oaths that all who seek help like us lawyers, all who seek help and who need help will have to be helped. So the dilemma will stay there a lot, there will be a lot of inexplicable things left because we can't even clarify them, but as politicians, we have to define ourselves for one option that brings value amongst the larger number of citizens, not touching either the feelings or the right of an individual, let alone the group. It's the task of us. If we're going to make it, I don't know, but that's why we have a discussion in two readings and it's open to the public. Here's what I wanted... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7723	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7724	Thank you very much. My colleague Leco, I didn't speak at all about religious worlds, you mentioned it, and these doubts, most of them I would agree with your replica, you said that no one should suffer the application of this law. Well, no one can stand the application of this law except, what you didn't say, below, except to say this metaphorically, except for an embryo whose destiny we won't know about most. Well, that's the question, but I hope here's how you said it in good faith and you and I are going to clear up some things by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7725	Thank you very much. There was another replica on your exhibit, Mr. Grubisic. Agent Pandek Drazenko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7726	Thank you. I'd like to refer to a part of the presentation of an esteemed colleague who... Why this law is inconclusive, it's not good. [[You don't understand.]] He also referred to the fact that The inconsistency of a child when he determines who his biological parents are will be able to claim certain inheritance rights and so on. I think these issues have been resolved by the Family Legacy Act. And today it is essentially understood that the father is the one who is enrolled as a father and is subject to parental law. So we have to distinguish, because today there's a difference between parental rights and a biological parent. So whoever has parental rights doesn't even have to be a biological parent. So I think these laws have already established how the inheritance will be determined. So it's obvious that a child will not have the right to biological parents who would be potential donors in terms of succession and I think it stems from all these other laws, without having to be so determined in this law that applies therefore to assisted insemination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7727	Thank you. Replica response, MP Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7728	Thank you, colleague, for this replica. But you must know that in the Family Law and the Law on Determination, this form of acquisition is not intended for me to tell the child in this way. And imagine the situation that after 18 years of coming and saying you're my biological father, I love you very much, so I would ask you how you would think about what you have, to share your inheritance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7729	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7730	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here I would also get involved in a first-row debate because of the high sensitivity of the topic that we are talking about, that is, the problem ahead of us and above all out of respect for those who need help and ultimately to live as universal value. I don't know if I'm gonna make it, but I think it's worth a try. It is not doubtful that HDZ as a party is democratically directed. However, the attitudes we represent in this matter are not explicitly Christian. In fact, they are outside Christian and even pre - Christian. But above all, they are founded and aligned with the modern scientific knowledge of the beginning of man’s life with all the implications that arise. Many major and significant religions outside Christian Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, and the like feel that human life begins with conception. Just before Christianity came along, the ancient Greeks and the Romans kept it important for the future of Western civilization. Namely, this is not about Greek and Roman mythology, but about an oath named after Greece, Hippocrates, which clearly determines that human life begins with conception and still a relevant provision in Roman law that says the child is a right entity, or that he is capable of inheriting. This legal provision is also inevitable in the Croatian Legacy Act, which states that the ability to inherit has only a person who is alive at the time of the opening of the inheritance, and in this context the child is mentioned at the time of the opening of the inheritance from which it premises the simple and clear logical conclusion that the child is a living person who is a legal entity. How every law must comply with the Constitution is reasonable that so must this one, but it will not simply because a child cannot at the same time be subject to the right and object of biomedical manipulation. I remind myself of the Constitution of Article 21, where it is said: "Every human being has the right to live, and it is based on Article 23, which clearly norms that no one should be subjected to any form of abuse or without his or her consent to medical and scientific experiments." I'd like to remind you that he's a child, that a child conceived is a bearer of the ability to inherit. It is also a legal entity that is attributed to interests and breakthroughs, regardless of which it cannot articulate them. I won't mention again that no international convention speaks, or defines that life begins with birth. The colleagues have already mentioned that the Luxembourg Court of Justice has reached a verdict which, therefore, led to life starting with conception, and the question of the beginning of human life is not worldly, or ideological positions, but an absolutely scientific fact that applies to all people in all times. Finally, I would say that no one is opposed to the treatment of infertility or ethically justified treatment of medically assisted fertilisation. Moreover, we all need to encourage them in a warm way. However, it should be borne in mind that anything that is technically possible is not ethically possible, or is not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7731	Thank you. The next one is the representative of Zlatko Komadin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7732	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me here are only three, four sentences concerning this Law not so much content about the implications of the law that I see that most of you have handled in discussions rather than certain logical assumptions that I think if you stick to a little less discussion would be especially by our male colleagues. I personally believe that this law is primarily a question of women's rights and let women decide their rights. It's the right to motherhood. True, someone can also say the right to fatherhood. But the right to fatherhood cannot be achieved without the right to motherhood. So I think that's what we said, and I would personally suggest to our male colleagues here that we vote the way most of our colleagues vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7733	Thank you very much. An individual debate. So the last registered representative, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7734	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. It is perfectly legitimate to be in a democratic state from my point of view backward, resilient, overly religious principles, with its own worldview and inspired by the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. But it's fair to say that. It would be fair for 160,000 people, or 80,000 couples and the same number of their families, to face the truth, and it is said: We do not want to use all the possibilities of medicine, so they have been practiced in just about all the countries of Western democracy and beyond to get a child. Our light is stronger than what you consider to be your right and generally accepted good. But that should be said before the elections so the citizens know what they're on and who they finally give a vote to. The law that is today in force, called Milinovic, is retrograded, opposed to European practice and scientifically backward. It is characterized by particularly married couples or women who treat infertility in the Taliban. Although freezing embryos is considered a golden standard in the treatment of infertility, even though only Italy has issued a ban on fertilisation from frozen embryos until 1998, even though as many as 80,000 couples yearn for children had previously been merciless because of the world's horizon. I would accept their right to abide by religious principles if the world's horizon, which inter alia forbids theft, kidnapping, disillusionment of citizens, would then be fully adhered to. But we do know, unfortunately, that only one of 10 orders has been practiced. That is why in this case, the only justification for the world’s or religious principles is to that extent hypocritical that it is difficult to digest. I hope so much for the past, bad, so bad that Croatia was the most restrictive state in Europe. And now a few words about the misunderstandings in this new proposal of the Medical Aided Insemination Act. Under the new law, 12 egg cells could be fertilized, and what if it does not contribute to the ultimate goal? Don't we now want to treat your infertility to a couple or women? If infertility is treated as a disease, why limit treatment? Why not fertilize more cells and up to 35 cells to produce women assisted by hormonal therapy. Slovenia and Austria allow fertilisation of all egg cells and freezing of embryos. One of the potential problems is the provision that a child, after 18 years of age, has the right to know who his parents are. Why is that a problem? Because European practice tells us that this provision is the problem. In countries where donors aren't anonymous donations. Why do couples from Croatia and from some other countries come to treatment in the Czech Republic? Because couples in need of donation of any egg cells, any sperm aid can be obtained legally in the Czech Republic that guarantees donor anonymity. Although donors on the legal side do not have any rights or obligations to children, the complexity of the problem is large enough that no one unanonymous wants to be a donor. Doesn't practice speak enough? Or does the suggestion that donors must be known to children when they are 18 they want to prevent donations? Although the possibility of donating sex cells in Croatia is foreseen, there is no bank of sperm and an egg cell bank. Does he want to pass another non-executive law? The law stipulates that embryos can be frozen for five years. It seems to be maximum allowed time. What about embryos after five years? Will they be donated, will they be defrosted? Without answering that question, the law should not be passed. And women who are not in the marriage community, and they are infertile, according to this bill, have the right to medically assisted insemination because it is acceptable. I repeat, if infertility is treated as a disease it is pointless to deny the right to treatment or therapy from the position of marital or extramarital status. And finally, again we come to money, even in this noble actually one of the most noble goals of thinking I am that the treatment of infertility regardless of the number of attempts because no one does it for fun should be free. This is the best money invested, and that is how 20,000 children were born since 1983 when Croatia was among pioneers in medically assisted fertilization, and today it is a pioneer in reverse. So these children conceived with the help of modern medicine say that each lip is well invested in money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7735	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll be back to work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. We will be clear about this point when conditions are created, and we will continue with the point Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and in matters of security, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 80. Thanks and I'll see you in the morning, bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-09-0.u7736	We're moving on to a statement on the bill proposals we had on the agenda until today from Wednesday to here at this plenary session. The first is the proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 71. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, which is divided into two points: 1. Proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination 2 is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I ask that by raising our hands, we state who is in favour of this proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? Now we'll have for the first time on the display, so for, against, abstention, not more so for, restrained, against. Oh, no, no, not yet, that's good. It's not right now, but it might, but it doesn't matter. We're working as slowly as we can. So I find that most votes, with 84 votes in favour, 24 against and 4 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
