ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6546	Good morning, everyone. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're moving on with the session. It's 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 54 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms. Anka Mrak Taritas Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6547	... It's a law that was passed in 1998. in its application, there have been several problems over the long years, and now, by this amendment and by supplementing the law, we are proposing to enable the solving of the same problems. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Namely, the current legal variant says this, that the accompanying buildings, and the accompanying structures within the meaning of the law, are considered a crematorium, mortuary, an exhibition hall on the stage, a room for escorting the dead, etc. they must be built and planned inside the cemetery fence. As you all have a chance to see it is not even in the case of Mirogoja because in the case of Mirogoja, such an object is being followed outside the cemetery fence. In the application of local self-government units, so municipalities and cities pointed to this problem, they indicated that this is not always possible, so we propose to amend the Law on Cemeteries in such a way that the accompanying buildings can be built and planned beyond the cemetery fence, provided that this is so defined by a spatial plan. Why is this a condition? In fact, the spatial plan is one process of change itself and complementing very democratic. All the public concerned can participate, can make their observations in the planning process and then define the exception and such a location in the planning process. So it's about changing an article of the law where we appreciate that we would be much more operational than we are, as well as units of local self-government, so municipalities and cities in their daily activities. This is why the Government proposes this amendment to the Law on Cemeteries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6548	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of counterpart Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6549	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At its session held on 15 March 2012, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government discussed this bill and highlighted the question of clear definitions of distances of accompanying buildings and morgues from the cemetery in the debate. We point out that the existing Law on Cemeteries was not legally possible to build such objects outside the cemetery, but in practice we have built morgues and miles away from cemeteries which cause considerable difficulties. The board members concluded that this amendment of the law gives the possibility to legalise already built morgues outside the fenced area of the cemetery but also gives itself the opportunity to rebuild the accompanying cemetery buildings miles away from the cemetery. We believe that the law should contain provisions that would separate the definition of the status of already built accompanying cemetery buildings and provisions that would define future construction of accompanying cemetery buildings. The proposer's representative pointed out that this distance issue would be resolved by the rules on cemeteries which the board members did not consider a good solution. Following the discussion, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government unanimously concluded that the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemetery included provisions that would address the question of defining the status of already built morgues and their legalisation and provisions that would define future construction of the accompanying cemetery buildings outside but right next to the cemetery. Finally, the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the majority of votes 4 votes in favour of, 3 abstentions decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, with this conclusion, to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6550	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, a respected representative of counterpart Zlatko Tušak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6551	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is proposed to adopt laws amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries, with the Final Proposal for an emergency procedure, with a change in the definition of what is a cemetery and where the accompanying buildings of a cemetery are built. The proposer, in his explanation, states that buildings can build beyond the cemetery space in those cases where there is no possibility of building within the fenced area of land that makes up the cemetery. In the proposed text of Article 1(4), It stands quite another thing, I quote: "The following buildings are built within the fenced area of land which makes the cemetery, or beyond that space, if it is planned by the spatial plan of the units of local self-government", which means that the explanation of the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not in line with the text of the proposed law, because the condition is only the spatial plan of the units of local self-government regardless of whether or not there is room in the cemetery for accompanying buildings. The adoption of these amendments to the laws will not address the issue of maintaining the cemetery, and the construction of auxiliary cemetery buildings as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia in the draft law. In fact, the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government states that this proposal aims to legalise existing illegal buildings, which is not defined in the government's proposal itself and that the construction of new buildings will not be built for miles outside of the cemetery. In addition to these shortcomings, I have to add others like construction in local squares or near cultural sites. Due to such a solution, the proposal to amend the law has been written superficially, recklessly and could have significant consequences in application. The question also arises if there is no place for building a new building in a certain cemetery area, if there is then for new graves. If that doesn't mean that the cemetery should be closed and built new at the intended location of the spatial plan. In addition, nowhere in the Law on Cemeteries does it say that the cemetery is located exclusively in one place, the land, so I see no reason why existing illegal objects would not be legalized like isolated units or anything like that. This law deserves much more attention than the one given to it by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and proposes a bad solution that will not solve the problem in the long term but could have problems in application itself. The hastyness of changing the law hastened me to question whether there may be any other reasons and, after certain knowledge, I must ask the motionary. Whether these amendments to the law seek to please individuals and to be concrete, Jastrebarski Mayor, a fellow SDP representative, Michael Zmajlovic, who is also chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. The city of Jastrebarsko and the mayor tried to obtain a permit to build a morgue on the square in Gorica Svetojansko, where the Church of St. Anne, the monument of culture as well as the object of a voluntary fire department. Although there is a study by the University of Zagreb Institute of Urbanism, spatial planning and landscape architecture that the mortuary operation is possible within the area of the cemetery, and the proposed location on the square in Gorica is the most unfavourable solution of all offered. Regardless of the study, there is still a new morgue to be built on the square. The findings of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning of 7 February this year show that the mortuary on the market could adversely affect people and the environment during the use of the building and no permit has been issued for any construction on the square in Gorica Svetojanska. Regardless of this, I have information that the takeover of a tender in the town of Jastrebarski for the construction of a morgue on the main square in Gorica Svetojanska and that it is known in advance that the Parliament will adopt amendments and additions to the Law on Cemeteries that will go hand in hand to Jastrebarski. Instead of amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries with implementing regulations, the cemeteries rule protects possible devastation from the construction of accompanying cemetery facilities in this case is the opposite, and according to and appropriates individuals. If this is achieved, a beautiful tourist square will be destroyed by a morgue instead of building other facilities. These are the reasons why we object to such a law being passed hastily because it could result in the main squares or other inappropriate places of zero mortuary. The Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party, until you convince us otherwise, will not support such proposals. You suggest them and bring them, but also take responsibility when you tailor them for narrow individual interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6552	Thank you. In the name of the HNS club, the distinguished representative Ivica Mandic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6553	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club is a completely different position than the previous presentation because this is about a law that has been in service since 21 February '98. year, so one law that had its own application and since there was no change, we can say that it was one good law. With this amendment only one provision, I think it goes in favor of the units of local self-government that were the initiator of these changes. Namely, what it's about. Some old settlements, cities, because of the size of the cemetery itself, do not have the opportunity to build such buildings, and the law accurately specify that morgues or places of forgiveness are special places of municipal equipment that can only be built in the cemetery areas. We also consider as a party, respecting these facts, that it is not good that this part of municipal equipment or that standard of living in local self-government units is not done where possible. It means that morgues or houses of forgiveness are built in the immediate vicinity or in places that are consistent with the spatial plan. Why are we saying this in the immediate vicinity? This is usually the case and the problem that arises in local self-government units located in the south of the Republic of Croatia, Dalmatia, Primorje, because cemeteries are on such a land configuration that they do not have the possibility of spreading. It's either a break-in or it's up a hill. So we believe that this legal solution goes in favour of the units of local self-government and because of the very fact that this law has been in operation for 14 years and has not been in place for a change, we will consider and support this change so that this legal provision is changed and that the possibility of building municipal objects for burial purposes and beyond the borders of the cemetery is possible. Normally, provided in the procedure that this has been resolved by a spatial plan, and spatial plans are such documents that have insight and opportunity to debate all citizens. The HNS club, the Liberal Democrats, will support this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6554	Thank you, colleague Mandic. The SDP club's position will be presented by a respected representative, counterpart Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6555	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, Honorable MPs and MPs. Here is the club of SDP representatives who will support this amendment to the Law on Cemeteries, and I will say at the very beginning that I will not refer to individual debates of Croatian Labourers who sought this debate, that is, this bill of law actually comes to a political struggle, all of which is expensive on the basis of one political pamphlet. Since it is an amendment to the law initiated by several units of local self-government, and precisely for the reason that the Cemetery Act was passed in '98. A year. So 14 years ago and he hasn't changed since. It organizes the construction, use and management of the cemetery. The law also stipulates that the cemetery is a fenced area of land where graves, accompanying buildings and municipal infrastructure are located, and under the accompanying buildings is a crematorium, mortuary, a room for escorting the dead and others. Cemetery are municipal facilities, units owned by local self-government, cities and municipalities, not owned by individuals as tried through the debate here to plant. So I speak as a representative, but also as mayor and member of the City Association Presidency, and I have often encountered problems of local units that are not able to implement these provisions of the law when it comes to building morgues or other accompanying buildings, cemeteries within the fenced area of the cemetery. And in this particular case, which the representative from the Croatian Labourers was talking about was that 20 years could not be built a morgue. And you'll agree with me that it's one civilization standard that every place, every city in this country deserves to give away, the well-deserved piety to its dead. With the proposal, therefore, these amendments and additions to the Law on Cemeteries, such a single project will be able to be implemented. And that's why I think we should support this proposal. Although some do not seem justified by the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure, I know that a large number of local self-government units are faced with this problem and I believe that the adoption of this Act will launch a number of activities at local level and also in the economic sense of construction, new jobs, which will also be of great importance for each local environment, as you mentioned for the city of Jastrebarsko. If that were the case, the words of the representatives of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the spatial arrangement that started with a large number of initiatives and units of local self-government, where there are neither spaces nor other conditions for the accompanying buildings to be built in the fenced area of the cemetery. And that's what caused the problems in carrying out the work of the funeral. And in order to protect public interest through the implementation of these amendments, it is precisely why the promoter has put one provision in place that such an exception must be included in the spatial plan, which includes a public debate and procedure in which the public is involved in order to protect the interests of the public and also to determine those locations in accordance with the rules of the profession. So, in the same way that a change in the spatial plan is carried out. That is why the SDP Representatives' Club will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6556	Thank you, Comrade Dragonovich. For the correction of the incorrect quote, a colleague named Zlatko Tušak appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6557	Thank you, Vice President. Correction of the incorrect quote from counterpart Zmajlovic is not a political pamphlet because here I have the solution of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Thus, counterpart Zmajlovic is no political pamphlet. I was talking about facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6558	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, distinguished counterpart Zoran Vinkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6559	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will start with this argument, and practically from that debate on the Committee on Local Self-Government, where we have unanimously reached the conclusion that almost all the political parties involved in the Committee on Local Self-Government are talking about the problems of this Law. That's also what the HDSB Club's position is. The fact is, it's a valid '98 law. a the rules on cemeteries since 9 August 2002 and that, in the application of that law, it has indeed been established that, due to lack of space, location conditions, field configuration, the natural benefits of the terrain, unregulated property-legal relations and other reasons, the inability to implement the provision of that law is impracticable. I will remind you that the units of local self-government, so the Law on Cemeteries was passed in 1998 and all units of local self-government had to adopt spatial plans at the end of 2001. Many units of local self-government, regardless of whether they were in the association of cities or associations of municipalities in the presidency as mayors or chiefs of many units of local self-government, did not bring in space plans within that time period, but did not, through their spatial plans, allow for the construction of such objects in the existing cemetery, and did not foresee the possibility of space marked for a new cemetery precisely to avoid this inability to build such objects in certain mountainous areas or where that terrain does not allow. Since by the nature of things, I think it's an extremely nice explanation under quotes that all accompanying buildings in all cases and without exception must be built within the fenced area of the cemetery. It's a bit of a surprise, then, to pass a bill like this that makes this practice possible again that we've had so far. Many morgues were built before some local elections when some local leaders cut the tape. That didn't happen in Djakov because no one would ever think of opening morgues. It happened there even during socialism, even a book written about it when the former party appointed the other Yoku who was extremely sick to him because he was seen as a party member that he had to open the morgue first. However, reading the book turned out to have healed the friend Joke and was one of the leading officials of a new party then called the Croatian Democratic Union after the 1990s. The HDSSB Club is seeking and warning therefore that this law should first and foremost be observed in two levels and proposes that the ministry withdraw this proposal and build a new law that will allow the legalisation of such buildings that have been built. Some morgues in some cities are located between two malls and then a procession that follows the deceased must also pass through the shopping center’s register or through the passage to reach the last resting place from that morgue. I don't think anyone understands me quite like that, but really certain morgues are miles away from the cemetery area and it's really impossible to organize that last send-out or funeral. So we suggest that this law is done in two levels. This is the legalisation of existing facilities, because indeed what has been built will be difficult to repurpose for another purpose, and that practically these morgues that have been built, which have never received construction permits to obtain a useful permit through this legalisation process. And that the other part, therefore, is that what is necessary to do is to prepare a new Law on Cemeteries where it will be precisely defined and disabled that mortuaries or accompanying buildings cannot work outside the fenced area of the cemetery, or that they can work right next to the particle of the cemetery. Because here as indicated and as probably the ministry or minister will prescribe it by regulation is not clearly defined distance of the morgue from the cemetery and it is certainly necessary in this way to resolve it because the direct proximity of the cemetery is a relative thing. So it's relatively one meter, it's a hundred meters, but it's relatively ten kilometers from a thousand kilometers. And we think this is a pretty failed solution, especially as it is about, so I'm not talking about legalizing the existing ones right now, but especially about building new morgues. There is certainly also a problem that many units of local self-government did not recognize, which is that they were not prepared for either spatial plans or for the future of their units of local self-government, so they did not determine in their spatial plans new spaces for the construction of new cemetery. In addition to this law, in order for no one to be unclear, all units of local self-government will have to do so unless it is foreseen by a spatial plan, and apparently not, they will have to change the spatial plan. So even if they want to work in close proximity to the cemetery as defined by this law they will have to go to changes in the spatial plan, and that procedure does not make it impossible to speed in the way this law imagines. And it may happen that, in a public debate, in accordance with the existing laws of the competent service and the competent ministries do not issue a permit, given that this has already been done in a number of examples. As it is now, regardless of the contract signed, as it is now happening with Brijuni Riviera. I will not enter into whether there is now a conflict within the Kukurik coalition, but I warn that this can happen precisely with this law because the spatial plan is not and can not only bring the majority of the municipal, city council or county council, but that spatial plan should be given both consent and a series of institutions, but also, above all, the consent of laws and professions. So the HDSSB club proposes that this law and that this law be split into two levels. It is the legalisation of existing facilities, and that if the ministry really wants to make order and help citizens in certain units of local self-government to educate them primarily to make spatial plans, and then here, in accordance with these remarks that we have made as a political option to certainly prepare legislation that will define the construction of new accompanying contents that will be in the cemetery fence, on a cemetery particle or with a particle that is right next to the cemetery, regardless of what this law is already enabled if it is not put into the spatial plan, but we have witnessed that it was impossible to do so since you could not get a valid permit or at the end of the building permit. And I remind you here and I also say to this conclusion of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government that the Committee itself is, and in that committee, there are many mayors from various political options who have taken a stand to set out provisions that would address the question of defining the status of already built morgues, depending on their legalization and provisions that would define future construction of the accompanying cemetery buildings outside but right next to the cemetery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6560	I thank my colleague Vinkovic. Now we will be given the views of the HDZ Club by the distinguished representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6561	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries, which today is on our benches, will make it easier for certain cities and municipalities to build a cemetery. Due to lack of space, field configuration, unresolved property-legal relations and various natural disadvantages, some units of local self-government were not able to build accompanying buildings within the fenced area of the cemetery although these buildings are of particular interest that numerous cities and municipalities have problems and have been prevented in their legal obligation to invest and maintain in the cemetery. However, we at HDZ cannot agree that this is a law that needs to be passed like this in an emergency procedure. For the purposes of Article 159(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the following definitions shall apply: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be given the possibility to adopt laws of urgency only when the interests of defence and other particularly justified state reasons are required, or where necessary, to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. We wonder if the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is passing this law by emergency procedure because the construction of these auxiliary buildings means morgue, crematorium, stage exposure hall, the premises to escort the dead will remove the disturbances in the economy. Whether morgues or crematories are buildings or their construction and investments that are counted on to launch an investment cycle and employment. I am saddened by the fact that we who are here for the first term that we have been here for almost four months and no law has gone to regular procedure. We didn't get a chance to participate in the first, second reading in the final bill. I don't think this law, the Law of Cemeteries, is definitely the one that should go this way. It has been in force since 1998, not only for the construction but also for the closure and disposal of cemeteries, the management of cemeteries, the use of cemetery sites, the keeping of grave eyewitnesses, etc. Since 1998, much has changed, so the debate in the ordinary procedure would certainly raise some more questions that could be addressed by this law. So, for example. in Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The law states "that cemeteries are municipal buildings owned by units of local self-government in which they are located". However, there are cemeteries built on land particles owned by parishes. The parish and parishioners are from the area of one unit of local self-government, and land in the area of the second neighbouring Catastrian municipality and other units of local self-government. Lately, in the area of the construction of Sibenik or Sibenik-Knin County, we have an initiative of a private funeral company for the construction of a private cemetery. I believe that this law also has something to do with the fact that this law answers something on the subject. Even in the law itself, there is a need for those minor corrections, such as in Article 16(3), the obligation to enroll a single number of citizens, and now we have an OIB. I am sure that the debate in multiple readings would point to more needs for changes and additions, not only in this part that allows the following facilities to be built outside the territory of the cemetery and if planned by the spatial plan of the units of local self-government. All of this would have been good if this had gone into regular procedure because I'm sure neither those in the cemetery nor those in need of a cemetery are in a hurry anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6562	Thank you, colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev. We will hear more and the attitudes of the HSU Club will be expressed by the distinguished representative Željko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HSU Club will support these small but very important changes to the Law on Cemeteries. For example, we in Koprivnica will now be able to build a new morgue that can now be outside of the previously fenced area and thus replace the old one, which is only 15m from the highway Koprivnica-Varaždin and inappropriate to escort the deceased. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law says "The cemetery is a fenced area of land where graves, municipal infrastructure and, as a rule, accompanying buildings are located." The article of the 10th reads "The cemetery is managed by the office of the cemetery, which means the assignment of the burial site, the arrangement, maintenance and reconstruction of the cemetery", and the article 13 reads "for the use of the cemetery, the user pays the grave fee". So, according to these articles, everything is clear and regulated by law but there is one big but. The law does not provide for vandalism, the night decoupling of monuments and the destruction of young forces after returning from night outs. Which is worth a fenced space in which everyone can enter at night and except for the destruction of the tombstones to extract copper vases or steal flowers that often happens. And such devastations happen too often throughout Croatia, and the resolution of such damage is very expensive. The law does not provide for directors or guards because as they told me in the Communal who runs the cemetery, then the fee would be three times as expensive. So we don't pay to guard the cemetery even though there are very expensive properties or tombstones. And what remains if this happens, for example, to a retired man who has been saving for his last stay, but to report damage to the police because this law has not even predicted a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6564	Thank you. So we're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first one for the ten-minute debate came from counterpart Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6565	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here I have decided to report on the draft of this law precisely because there is an objective problem on the ground in local self-government units in situations where the locations for the cemetery have to be predicted. Some of them are already defined by spatial plans and envisaged for the construction of new cemeteries, as well as possible expansion of existing ones, and in some areas there are objective problems where this law will facilitate the functioning of this particular activity. Of course, it is not the only question of this problem in building additional accompanying buildings needed for the functioning of cemeteries outside the borders of the cemetery. In fact, the big problem is that there are cemeteries that have been built over time in settlements where groups of citizens have done so by solving their life problem where it was not solved then by units of local self-government, that is to say, the cemetery was built by the locals on their own initiative, and on city land, and somewhere on church land. Such a cemetery is outside the legal framework and the local self-government unit cannot be responsible for it as well as for managing it until it is put into legal frameworks. I believe it is necessary for such a cemetery to bring legal regulations and to lay down them by law, or actually do their legalization because they represent illegal construction, illegal construction. In relation to the statement, I have a case like this in my unit of local self-government in the town of Žedno in Trogir where it is necessary to regulate the law just enrolment in land books, i.e. legalize if possible in such a way that cemeteries which are not included in land books or in those books are not included in their actual state of affairs should be entered in land books under official duty on the basis of an application list which, after recording a cemetery, i.e. its real state in a cataster, in a land-registered court under official duty, delivers the body responsible for catastra. Cemeterys not recorded in catastrus or catastrus shall not be recorded in the catastrus on the basis of the relevant geodetic embossed embossed condition and supplied by the authority responsible for the cadastre by the local self-government unit. This cemetery should be entered in land books according to the articles listed above. The real estates that were used as cemeteries before 1 January 2005 are publicly used in general, in the inalienable ownership of units of local self-government in which they are located. In this way, such cemeteries as part of local self-government units could be taken over in such a case and managed legally on a legal basis. Since these amendments to the law do not provide for such a case, I would ask that it be foreseen so that it can be regulated on a legal basis. I am in principle in favour of this bill which will solve many units of local self-government the problem of this activity related to the cemetery, but also to predict exactly the solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6566	Thank you. We have a report of a replica. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Rilje, here I am pleased that you of the SDP have just pointed out the real problem of this Law on Cemeteries, and that is why we of the HDZ believe that this law should have gone into two readings, and then this assembly debate would have actually been crystallized and it would have shown real problems that were not solved by legal order in the Republic of Croatia in relation to the cemetery, and that is not only this cemetery of yours, but dozens of cemeteries that were built only by citizens by contributions to land that were either church or private or city or municipal and municipal, and which were not introduced into the system where they are being buried today in a way that is not in accordance with Croatian regulations, but in fact, the Croatian legal order did not answer the questions on how to regulate and what measures to regulate it. And therefore, if this law had gone into two readings, then this debate would certainly have pointed to a number of other provisions to be amended in that law and other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6568	The replica will be answered by an esteemed colleague, Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6569	Dear colleague Lovrin, you're right, of course. Here we will surely find a hundred possibilities, or a hundred unsolved cases in our practice. I, of course, pointed out that this law solves some of them. We will never legally solve them all, which does not mean that in this way and this bill will not solve some of them to some units of local self-government. Realizing that, here I was not giving a special amendment but certainly should further supplement this bill. So here, this cemetery that I was talking about isn't yesterday, it's 30 years old, so we could go through legal regulation to solve it a long time ago, since here I've made my little contribution to knowing about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6570	We continue with individual discussions. Dear colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6571	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The government is in a hurry to settle with the dead because they seem to have become impatient. In the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is prescribed that the law can be passed by an urgent procedure. They are listed in the Rules of Procedure and these exceptional situations or needs. The law may be adopted by an emergency procedure if the defence interests and other particularly justified state reasons so require. The law can be adopted by an urgent procedure when it is necessary to prevent and eliminate major economic disturbances, and the disturbances in the Croatian economy have arisen, we have finally found the culprit for a crisis which the HDZ Government has not long wanted to admit because so far is not adequate, satisfying the issue of setting up the cemetery. In particular, the possibility of building auxiliary buildings for the purposes of the cemetery has not been adequately resolved, and the construction of morgues is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it wasn't my representative's idea, and that's the opposition's smallness, but the government's. What's the news in the Cemetery Act? That morgues will be able to build outside the fenced area of land that makes up the cemetery if it is planned by the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government. How far from the cemetery will the morgue be under new power? You don't know, you don't know yet. And when will you know? When the Minister of the Cemetery, I'm sorry, the minister responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy is in line with the Cemetery Regulation. For alignment, the legislator gave the minister 30 days. And why couldn't that be coordinated immediately? Why couldn't it have been introduced into the law anyway? After most accept amendments to the Law on Cemeteries with the possibility of mortuaries being built outside the cemetery, chaos will begin in morgues that may only ease the song from "When the Dead Sing". This amendment to the law is one of the most pointless and devastating. This law doesn't even respect the dead. If the government has shown that because of the party's interest and the former powers of staff and of the unconstitutional changes in the law, this change shows that it is also ready for laws that break even the dead. It doesn't belong to local self-government units. Most of the people I talked to wonders. Not that you are violating constitutionality because of your government members, as it did with the Comadina Law, but also from the cemetery and from the dead, you are doing not only chaos but also circus. A colleague from the SDP earlier stressed in a debate that several units of local self-government had requested changes. You can imagine a few out of 500. Well done! You've subordinated everything to your personal interests, so you'll build morgues in city centers, near disco clubs, next to birtiums, by home offices, and also theaters. That's why funerals under the recipe of the ruling coalition will look like in the movie "Who's singing there." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6572	Next in line for the individual debate is distinguished colleague Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. So here are the reasons why local self-government, local self-government units can't implement the Law on Cemeteries, or the existing law, or they can't implement such projects are huge. We actually heard them from the discussion of predecessors, and these are from lack of space, then unregulated property-legal relations, various other locational conditions, land configuration, etc. It is also a fact that such a law has not changed for 20 years and the needs of change are great. These changes today, regardless of how small they are, will make it easier for local self-government to actually solve its problems at least in this segment so that it can build a morgue outside the scope of a cemetery if the space does not allow otherwise. In fact, they are given the opportunity to find a suitable location and close to the cemetery when planning the cemetery space and the accompanying buildings. However, only such a provision is not sufficient for other units of local self-government to solve their problems, i.e. to be able to implement projects to build a cemetery. There are many issues that make it impossible to actually implement the current Law on Cemeteries, or issues that prevent the implementation of the project. In the amendment to this Act, it says that you stated that because of the large number of initiatives of the unit of local self-government. One of the initiatives comes from the city of Dubrovnik about whose problem we are, we contacted the resolution ministry. So it's about the next one. In 2006, the conclusion of the Agreement on the Construction of the Cemetery between the City of Dubrovnik and the Municipality of Zupa Dubrovačka established a common interest in the construction of this cemetery in the municipality of Zupa Dubrovačka, and since it was in fact the most optimal choice of the city of Dubrovnik compared to the actual conveniences, near the location, the intended area that corresponds to the situation, the integrity of the cemetery, the spatial and the geographical properties of the site. Everyone who knows that terrain then knows that the city of Dubrovnik and the municipality of Župa Dubrovačka is one sequence without, one normal sequence of connections between the city and the municipality. The contract on the financing of the built cemetery of Dupca next year concluded this relationship, which is that a particular model of funding for the construction of the cemetery in such a way that all the costs of the construction of the cemetery are shared in relation to the 80 city of Dubrovnik, and 20% of the municipality of Zupa Dubrovačka on whose territory is the grave. The total estimated costs for the construction of the cemetery in question on the territory of the neighbouring municipality are 230 million kuna, and this cemetery is being built, it is expected to be built in 5 phases. However, there is an existing law if we look at it in accordance with Article 2. The Law on Cemeteries is laid down that cemeteries are municipal objects owned by units of local self-government on whose territory they are located. In fact, this law excludes the possibility of owning a cemetery in the territory, in the territory of another unit of local self-government. On the other hand, when we look at the Finance Act, that is, the Law on Local Self-Government Areas, each unit of local, regional and regional self-government is obliged to deal with the attention of a good economic operator, i.e. a good host, as prescribed in Article 67(2). Law on local and regional self-government. In view of the fact that this is an extremely high financial burden for the city of Dubrovnik's budget, and according to the current formulation of that article of the Law on Cemeteries for all the funds invested, the city of Dubrovnik could not become co-owner in the equivalent ratio of its investments in the cemetery in question, which is contrary to the article I said in the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. Therefore, respected deputy ministers, we propose to supplement the law and to supplement Article 2, which speaks essentially of the definition of cemetery, we suggest that we supplement paragraph 2 of the exceptional cemetery can be owned by two or more units of local self-government regardless of whose territory they are located. Dear Deputy Minister, I hope you will appreciate this problem, that we will actually succeed in correcting some illogicalness, i.e. to be as close as possible to the realization of Dubac Cemetery, which is of great public interest and whose realisation would actually enable solving the problem for the next 100 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6574	Thank you very much. A esteemed colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, stands up to this replica exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6575	Thank you. You see, dear colleagues, that it is obvious, and in your opinion, I would say an amendment or this remark that this law really should have gone into two readings because it really is not a law that will significantly change Croatia's fate. And this law should, above all, allow for the legalisation of existing built morgues or accompanying buildings, but this law at the same time should not allow for the construction and continuation of a bad system regardless of which part of Croatia these new morgues are being built. Because only by regulation, so at this point I believe I'm not psychic but I believe most of you will support such changes and additions to the law that says it's close by. And only this immediate proximity will be defined by a regulation that will be passed by the minister, or the ministry. So now this direct proximity can be here in Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik County can mean 100 meters, maybe somewhere in Lica will mean 3.5 km, and somewhere in Slavonia because we have little there and those Slavonian mountains may be 15 km away if we are together making cemeteries for those uninhabited villages. Now, since some of them asked me who this Yoke friend was supposed to open up in that former mortuary system, it was one of those who cleaned the attics, which then had a hard time getting sick, not from PTSD, but probably from the cirrhosis of the liver, then the party ordered him to open a newly built morgue. However, the morgue was opened by a local citizen, a citizen who was not known at all, and another Joke became one of the leading HDZ people during democratic change.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6576	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6577	I've been asked by people out there and let me explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6578	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6579	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6580	The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6581	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Vinkovic here's what we heard for 20 years, the law hasn't been changed. Most local self-government units have their own problems, you can see it through the association of cities that actually went towards the City Association and have their own views on all this. This law has begun to change. I therefore also believe that after today's discussion they will go very quickly to change and supplement because after our discussions that we have said our problems in their local environments, I hope that the Deputy Minister will take a good look at and accept it and move on. So we started, but the law hasn't changed in 20 years, which is clearly necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6582	We're continuing an individual debate. ... Please don't throw your colleague Vinkovic off the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. ... Well, don't throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6583	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. As you have heard, the Club of Representatives of my party will support this proposal. I can say that I am sorry that it comes to him relatively late and that because several cases in the Republic of Croatia had to be solved quite unfavorably, ungrably and awkwardly precisely because of such a rigid formulation that so far existed in the law. I'll tell you just one example from my town, and that's Big Gorica. One of the oldest parishes in our city is the dubranec parish where the church of the Mother of God is snowy and beside it a cemetery for the whole parish. And the parish is, it is a curiosity, its territory is actually situated not only in the area of the town of Velika Gorica but also includes the settlements of the City of Zagreb, then parts of the settlement of the Municipality of Popusko and believe it or not some settlements of the Municipality of Pisarovina. And all the citizens of that neighborhood are being buried in a local cemetery in Dubrantz. However, it has proved extremely necessary to build a tracking facility, or morgue, because the capacities of that cemetery, no matter how large, are actually becoming more and more full. But the configuration of the ground on which the cemetery is located and where it spreads is very unfavourable for building objects of such a type, and then in building a project for the construction of a morgue within the very limit of the cemetery there were major problems, because this implies the installation of pylons on slides, large amounts of concrete elements, so that the building could be secured, and all of this could have been avoided in a neighboring plot outside the limits of the cemetery itself. And everything, of course, in a circle that makes up of course and a salary around the church of the Mother of God's snow. But I want to point out that there is another problem that should be solved very soon. Here is a colleague, Šimac-Bonačić, who announced that there is also a problem in Dubrovnik in the construction of a new cemetery. There is another problem in principle, and the law's most expensive solution was paid by Velika Gorica. In fact, existing regulations and laws and regulations define the obligation of every unit of local self-government that builds a new cemetery, and that is very little, because today the cemetery is spreading mainly, not building a new one. It's rare who have to decide. So all those who want to build a new cemetery not only have to define the area by means of spatial planning documentation by means of a specific urban plan closer to determine the purpose of space, but must cover the area sufficient for a hundred years. Of course, it is not a spatial problem to cover the area, but the problem is that all those who want to build a new cemetery must provide in advance the property-legal entire space needed for a hundred years, which means they have to buy a huge area that will not actually be used for the next 70 years. This is an unfair solution because it drives investors into first-class municipal facilities, so it's not commercial objects, it's something that's still part of the municipal activity, so it's making them spend huge money on something they're not going to exploit at all. In a concrete example, the city of Velika Gorica is another disgrace. The city defined the space-planning documentation zone in Kusanc as the zone of its new city cemetery. It was a land that was a state agricultural land, but a note was taken from the citizens of Velika Gorica by the famous kidnapping from 1947 when property was seized by land communities without the right to compensation. So this land was the land of the citizens of Kurilovac in Velika Gorica, which the state took from them in '47, and then when the city asked 4.5 years ago to assign that land to build its municipal facility, then the precedent happened. Unlike all those who were closer to the altar and heard better the mass, and they were rich and religious, and they got huge areas from HDZ governments for which they eventually commercial projects, the town of Velika Gorica was valued by the HDZ government, that if it wants to build its own cemetery within 30 days it must be paid into the state budget of 9.5 million kuna. Can you imagine how the city, even if it was the 6th largest in 30 days, organized the thing including the urban budget rebalancing to find 9.5 million kuna and to pay for it so that it would not be left without the possibility of burying its own citizens. It's precisely because of a provision that says that the property-legal property has to be secured above 100% of the area. And we know very well that when you reject the area needed for the accompanying buildings such as chapels and morgues and all other infrastructure elements of that cemetery that and when you further calculate and what you must have as a space for intervention burial in case you do not give God some natural or some other accident you will use for the next 30 years maybe another 20% of the total surface. So all together when you add up and subtract in 30 years you don't need more than 40% or 50% of the total area. But you have to pay now, you have to pay right now. I would therefore be inclined to suggest that, when we change this law in the next step, with this provision mentioned by Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, we also install a provision on the obligation to buy in advance because it is a prerequisite for issuing a building permit in 100% amount, or in the 100% surface of the cemetery for 100 years. In this sense, I must say that the town of Velika has made great efforts to pay the government despite all of these provisions and more expensive than they have asked for Croatian forests for their plots on which the note of the bene and the wooden structure that you can exploit or sell, so we have been imposed by the then government Committee for the Making of State Property something and it was a pure political racket. We successfully solved the problem, bought the land and allowed a new cemetery to be built. But in order for it not to happen to others who, sooner or later, will come into a situation that they have to build a new cemetery, not just expand the existing one, we propose and we will propose in the next step that new amendments and additions to the law relax this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6584	Thank you. While speaking to counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh in 10.38, the time for the application for an individual debate was 10 minutes. And at the presentation of fellow Richembergh, we receive the reported two replicas. First, my colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6585	Several times during the debate, it was mentioned that the law had already to be amended. In some countries, laws do not change for 50 or 100 years. We have introduced the practice that every government and even every government does not even change the government's laws as it wishes and fits it. During my childhood, the deceased were kept in the house for two days. On the day of the funeral, the column moved through the place and for an hour and a half because it was supposed to keep pace that the grandmothers could walk behind the coffin. It occurred even at that time when there was little car traffic chaos. People were insolent, and they were looking for true respect for the dead because they felt that what they were doing with the dead was a real circus. That's why the morgue was built 30 years ago as part of the cemetery. Cemetery is an extended purchased land. So that all together in my Sunday day seems civilized. And you're bringing this change of law back 50 years and you're actually bringing back a circus on the road but unfortunately a circus with dead people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6586	This replica will be answered by counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6587	I don't understand what you're making a problem of, but I understand why. I don't suppose you have any personal experience working in local self-government, so I must remind you that the provision proposed is not any liberalisation in such a way that it can build auxiliary facilities like a morgue who will and wherever it will. You can't build it because that thing is defined by a spatial plan. The spatial plan shall be adopted by the representative body of local self-government on the basis of a previous and public debate involving all, including interested institutions and citizens and units of local self-government and state. So if someone was going to build a morgue on the other side of town, they would probably find someone to tell him that he was not healthy and that he could not and should not be built there. That is why there is a provision that defines that it is possible only by definition in the spatial plan. And the county office certainly won't allow you to build your own spatial plan somewhere on the very other side of your settlement. It will be seen to be as close as possible, but if the existing area of the cemetery restricts the settlement or roads then you must be able to allow the auxiliary building to be built beyond that limit. May I remind you that Mirogoj Cemetery had an identical situation before the expansion beyond the border of the arcade because the existing and still functional morgue was beyond the limits of the cemetery. Today it's different because the cemetery has spread, but no circus has been made of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6588	Let's hear another line. Dear colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6589	Dear fellow Beus, you were right when you said that the next step would go very quickly to amend and supplement the Law on Cemeteries, since this proposal really does not solve all the problems that are related to cemeteries, the construction of morgues and everything that is related to it. That is why we believe that one of these laws that does not solve, we have heard it from a colleague from the SDP who is already announcing new amendments and additions because obviously the law does not look at the whole problem that is happening on the ground and does not solve important problems. We should say openly here, if we want to legalise the existing facilities that were built by law, which are built outside the borders or at the immediate proximity of the cemetery, so directly next to the cemetery which the current law has allowed, then let's say openly those morgues and these objects will be legalized, but we cannot redefined by this law or amendments to the law, thanks to the spatial plan that most in the representative body will bring, with the very easy consent of the competent ministry, and it can indeed happen that this one bad practice continues to be repeated. So, first of all, the law should go into legalization of the current state of affairs, but it needs to be passed a new law that will solve the problem once and for all, so that there really isn't a kilometre and a kilometre column through the settlements. And hopefully here's another decision that we'll go very quickly to the next step, and it's about marking a memorial in Bleiburg because obviously this decision is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6590	Time's up, time for your replica is up. Replication response, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6591	Col. Vinkovic, the existing law has included over 95% of the facilities so far built. This will likely allow legalisation of objects located on the other side of the road outside the border of the cemetery itself, which are relatively small, but are vital for the people who live there. And as for that first part of your replica, let's not slave to the cliché that all changes and additions to the law must be proposed by the Government. So here I call you board president when it is, when we have established on the one hand that the City of Dubrovnik has a problem, on the other hand we don't have it in Velika Gorica, but we have it and we want to prevent others. On the third hand, maybe the City Association has another smart proposal. On the fourth hand, you may also have some concrete experience. Let us MPs sit down and write a proposal to amend and supplement when the ministry has already said that it is aware of his shortcomings in this law and let me put it in the process. Well, it doesn't have to come from the government, I guess there's something between us that's smart enough and constructive enough and we'll accept it ourselves, and the government will definitely agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6592	Thank you. We're left to hear another individual debate. Dear colleague Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6593	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear assistant minister. We heard the Cemetery Act has been in effect since '98. A year, and a rule since 2002. In the application of the law in question, it has been established that, due to lack of space, location conditions, field configuration, i.e. the natural benefits of the terrain, unregulated property-legal relations and other reasons, the inability to implement the law regarding the construction of a morgue or other accompanying buildings within a restricted cemetery space as a unit of local self-government. All units of local self-government had to pass within the legal deadline a spatial plan to build objects in the cemetery i.e. tracking buildings of morgues, halls or crematorium. Unfortunately, many units did not do so where there was room and money for it. Some units of local self - government have no hearing or seem to be bound by neither the law nor the cemeteries regulations. I will give an example of a unit of local self-government in the east of Croatia, which, however, has in its spatial plan, is clearly not binding on it. A run-through in eastern Croatia must take the state road Vinkovci-Sid about 2 km long, then cross the customs route of the Republic of Croatia towards the Republic of Serbia to reach the cemetery. Very often in the summer months, car columns are created that do not usually tour the funeral procession. Unfortunately, this unit of local self-government, although in good faith, is secured on two occasions with dedicated funds to build a morgue as aid, twice per 200 thousand kuna, is not spent on purpose but rather on funds intended for the morgue spent on some obviously pre-election affirmative projects. To date, there is no prospect of sanctions for those who do not comply with the laws or regulations. I think that these sanctions against these units of local self-government should be implemented and that this Law on Cemeteries and the Cemetery Regulations really apply there, especially where conditions exist and spatial and financial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6594	Thank you, colleague Stanimirovic. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote in about an hour around noon, so I'd like the representatives of the clubs to ensure the presence of the representatives,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6595	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 54. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour, 24 against and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6596	And by then, we'll be discussing another law. That's 11. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 62.; Proposer of law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Ms Anka Mrak-Taritash, Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go. ... Wait, you have to get the word first. ... [[Intruder Vinkovic, you don't understand.]] Here's my colleague Vinkovic. [[Intruder Vinkovic, you don't understand.]] Excuse me, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6597	Dear Mr. Vice President, so I raised my hand. I'm not gonna ask for a break on behalf of the club since we're in a hurry to vote all these laws and decisions. But you, as vice president, should still have let the Deputy Minister manifest himself on this debate we've conducted on the Cemetery Act. You completed the debate and immediately passed the second law. Maybe the lady in this debate has something to tell us to the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6598	I thank my colleague Vinkovic for his instruction. Comrade Vinkovic, you can see when you are President of the Parliament or Vice President of the Parliament, then you will be in charge of the session. Please, please listen to me, then you'll be running a session. [[Intruder Vinkovic: Well very quickly, very quickly.]] And this remark of yours is completely unnecessary because I have consulted with the Deputy Minister. Well, you didn't have to see it, but it's none of your business. When you are President-in-Office of the Parliament, when you win enough votes of citizens and hold a session, then you will decide whether you will ask the Deputy Minister in public or in consultation. Thank you very much. I now call the Deputy Minister and apologize for interrupting her to explain this new proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6599	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing to amend and supplement the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. As you have the opportunity to see, it is proposed to amend and supplement several articles, but it is essential that three groups are subject to changes and addition of the law. The first is that the number of members of the spatial arrangement council is reduced from 9 to 7. Namely, at the time that this body was established in 2004, the number of members was 7. It has been shown that this number of members is very operational, so that once the law was amended and complemented two years ago, that the number of members increased to 9 which proved not to be operational enough so that we suggest that it continue to be the solution that has been from the beginning. That the number of members of the Space Editing Council should be 7. The second group, i.e. the second topic, is that, after the current legal solution, all who issue the local permits and confirm on the main project or the decision on the conditions of construction, this act must be delivered to the Building Inspectorate in Zagreb. At this time, it is absolutely unnecessary because in this way only the inspection is being buried, the premises are being blocked and it is concluded that it is not necessary because at any time we as a ministry have absolutely clear indicators of the number of acts issued. And third, what's most important and what's most important. It is not third because the most important and important thing is that the amendment and addition of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which entered into force on 10 August of last year, was introduced by an institute called a positive note. What does that mean? This means when any one of you who has real estate, and that property can be 30 and 40 years old, wants that property to be sold must put a positive note in the garter, or act based on which that property was entered in the garland. This in particular means that, for example, for houses that were built before 15.2.'68. which have been sold several times, if you want to sell now must be in the garter a positive note. In this situation where real estate traffic has fallen significantly, when the real estate market shows a major decline, this legal provision has led to major difficulties, the difficulties since certain grants have become overcrowded, they have become unoperative and immediately since the time the law, this amendment and the addition of the law came into force are about 10 August last year there were a series of warnings and a series of remarks from all that this further makes it even more difficult to traffic real estate. With this amendment and the addition of the law, this provision is deleted outside, and therefore these three topics are related to the amendment and addition of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. And the government is proposing to the Parliament that they amend and supplement the law and pass it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6600	I thank the Deputy Minister. I'm asking if the committee's reporters will take the floor as well. Yeah. President of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6601	Looks like this is one of the more active committees. Therefore, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government at its session held on 19 April 2012 discussed the proposed amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction with the final proposal. In the discussion, the Committee members pointed out that there are also a number of other important issues related to the application of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings that need to be solved. In particular, the need to implement financial decentralisation of funds to units of local and regional self-government since a significant number of administrative bodies acting under those laws is in the jurisdiction of the same units of local self-government and after the discussion of the Committee on Local Self-Government is by majority vote, 6 votes for and 1 vote against, 1 vote abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6602	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Michael Zmajlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6603	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, Honorable MPs and MPs. This bill seeks to amend the laws which are urgent and which are necessary for the launch of the real estate market which is still in stagnation in the Republic of Croatia due to the weaknesses in the euro area economy, but also due to the debt and economic crisis and a series of other factors. The relevant Law on Spatial Planning and Construction provides that the building is to be entered in the land book without notice of an act for the use of the building, i.e. the confirmation of the competent administrative authority that no instrument for use is to be deemed to be a building built without an act on which to access the building and without any instrument for use. And who says the opposite is to prove it. The provisions under which a building entered without a record of an act to be used are now deleted, on the basis of which it is to be considered as a building constructed without an act on which to access the building. In other words, all buildings that do not now have a valid permit or act by which they are entered in land books cannot go for sale, or cannot be bought. So they can't be handled at all. And that's what blocked the market, i.e. the traffic of real estate. This deletes the legal consequence of a positive note. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The law on the treatment of illegally built buildings says that an illegally built building, or land on which it was built, cannot be alienated until such a building has been removed, and that a contract concluded otherwise does not produce legal effects and cannot be implemented in land books. These provisions have caused misunderstandings, resulting in different interpretations by individual land and book courts. This led to the application of a ban on alienation to all buildings that do not have a record of acts on the basis of which the building is to be used. Instead of applying only to those buildings built without a building act as prescribed in Article 22. Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. So any change in ownership required a positive note. But the issue of ownership is one thing, and the question of existence, or possession of a building act, is another thing. So you're supposed to be illegal if you don't have a positive record. Now, after the adoption of this law in land-based books according to regulations governing spatial planning and construction, a estrangement contract will be able to be implemented on the basis of a building, a legal building and a building that is evenly constructed on the basis of a building-based instrument, and for which the only evidence is not mentioned a recording of the act but each of those acts or acts for the use of buildings should it be demonstrated. And there is no need to prove for those buildings entered in the land books from 1992 to 2007 because during these periods the buildings only entered if they had a valid permit, i.e. an act of use. The proposal is intended to remove any uncertainty and legal uncertainty created by different interpretations and the application of both of these laws by these amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Therefore, this bill should be seen as another step towards the launch of transport, i.e. the real estate markets. Among other things, the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which are prescribed by the obligation of administrative authorities to provide urban and construction inspection with locational permits, building conditions and certification of major projects, which is good because this was an unnecessary burden on the authorities of the administration, and in addition, the Ministry announced the introduction of an e-authority soon, which should also allow for the availability of all interested bodies of these acts. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide funding in the state budget but rather to praise this and to reduce the number of members of the Council of Spatial Planning from 9 to 7 which will certainly not be questioned by the quality of the work of the council, but will reduce the costs of the state budget by about half a million kuna. Here, on behalf of the SDP club, I can only say that we are waiting for and announced the new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and Amendments to the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings as soon as possible, as all such fundamental changes will be driven by initiatives on the ground positively affecting economic movements and investments. Therefore, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is more than justifiable. And that's why the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6604	Thank you, fellow Dragonman. In the name of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6605	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here's another one in a series of laws called steps that don't solve the whole problem of competent laws but simply pedal by pedal or step by step or step by step solve certain problems that are related to certain laws. It is a bit overly optimistic to make a statement because this is really not a big step for humanity or for Croatia like it was on the moon, but to argue so responsibly clear and loudly that here is an amendment to these provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction that will boost the real estate market indeed in this situation in which Croatia is located I would not say it is too optimistic rather than to flirt with something called at the border of certain diseases. I'll just remind you that Croatia today has that record number of unemployed, almost 350 thousand. That out of the 350 grand, no one will enter the real estate market. That those millions of pensioners, not those with privileged pensions, protected pensions, but those with normal pensions according to the existing Croatian laws that barely bring an end to the end, will certainly not decide to go into the purchase of real estate, apartment or house because these few years and what they have saved by their work long ago, have been spent. This will certainly not fix and start the real estate market and those workers who for several months more than 6, 9 and even a year do not receive salaries for their work and will certainly not make workers in this huge wave of bankruptcy, so this speed and change of the adoption of this law will certainly not start the real estate market in any case half of Croatia. As for the reduction of the number of members of the State Council from 9 to 7, if we wanted to make a real savings, since the council obviously had a great responsibility, but also a great deal of work when here in a number of these years, here is by its doing or by not doing practically, that we do not have a real estate market and that, among other things, it is not only the global economic crisis which, in the neighbouring countries, ceases, where gross national income grows only does not happen in Croatia, so if we already wanted to save and leave that advice we could reduce with those 9 members to three members and instead of 500 thousand kuna would save a million and a half kuna. And that would be one big message to the Croatian public to save too. I also warned the board itself, and I didn't get a clear answer. I think there's been a lot of paperwork, since I have some experience, because I've been acting and I've been head of local self-government for a long time to really have a problem with paperwork, and most investors have to wait a year to get a building permit. But I think that a useful permit that all the things that are related to the sale of real estate here are primarily about apartments and various investors who haven't paid the state, and VAT haven't paid taxes and contributions, taxes by most of them, taxes and contributions to their workers, so there are cases that citizens who bought out such apartments have paid cash or money, today they can't sign up for property because this company went bankrupt and miraculously pawned one such building. So that's one of the big reasons why the real estate market cares. What we certainly warned about, and I warn you now from this pay phone, are far greater problems and I say that this one step will not certainly start the real estate market, far greater problems in a number of other important issues that were expected to come very quickly. I have the opportunity and I have so much money from this "supervisory salary" that I can buy a newspaper so I can read what the minister has announced, which the government announces that by 6 months, legalize and illegally built facilities but most citizens who are no longer available for bread have no time or money or read the newspaper, anti buy that newspaper. And I thought first of all that one serious ministry must go into change if it wants to, because I think that someone who has been preparing for eight years to take over the government that simply should have at least offered to the citizens in the pre-election campaign of parliamentary elections that should have really already all the solutions, to know all the laws and not offer such a partial, is now not just a matter of your ministry, but it is a matter of most of the laws that are in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament. So when we make these amendments, we're already talking about very quickly coming up with new amendments and supplementing certain laws. Here in this debate, I would like to stress that a particular problem is a decision that is also related to the work of the state administration for issuing building permits, that one decision by the competent ministries has put these offices in large cities or in regional self-government or county, that the state then and by law has defined that this activity will be accompanied financially, but this has not happened to date and these arrangements have therefore been arranged by workers, employees, officials, call as you will all those who work are workers, are on budgets or regional or local self-government. The building permit system has not been accelerated at all. This is what many examples throughout Croatia say because if you do not have a godfather or nephew in a particular office, unless you are willing to give certain blue envelopes, you can hardly expect to get a building permit within the legal deadline. And this is the legacy of that octopus that has been harassing Croatia like this and has provided all the tentacles in all the pores of this society. I say HDSSB club, for these reasons alone, we believe that the real estate market should be launched, we believe that unemployment should be reduced, we believe that Croatia needs to come out of this deep economic crisis, we warn and we think that this simple little step is not big for either man, let alone for humanity, and we will not solve this problem for Croatia either way. We'll be abstentions in lawmaking. And here I will take this opportunity and, above all, send a message to the ruling coalition, but also to the Bureau of Parliament that here we are already taking such small steps and small changes and amendments to the law to make possible, given everything that is going on around the Bleiburg memorial these days, I believe that all those who are directly elected...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6606	My colleague Vinkovic, this is not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6607	Let me say it. It's very dark, I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6608	You can talk about the subject, but you can't talk off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6609	I'm talking about small steps, changes and additions to the law. And I'll end up in one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6610	Let's hear that sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6611	So I do not want to say that someone is not a national government because you have been chosen precisely by the people, but this people also asks to allow discussion in the Croatian Assembly about the memorial in Bleiburg because first of all, those who are innocently executed, those whose families, whose children may have never even seen them and it should not be a decision...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6612	My colleague Vinkovic, I must apply the Rules of Procedure. How can you not understand that now? I have to apply Rules of Procedure... /The speakers speak in the same voice./... And the Rules of Procedure say that the chairman will take away a word from that representative who speaks outside the subject. That's what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do. I warned you nicely. Come on, be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6613	Here I am going to end this debate. Read a little newspaper, Mr. Vice President, and you'll see that what I've just said has a weight greater than these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6614	Thank you. I invite now the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli to come to the pay phone and introduce us to the views of the Croatian Labour-Stranka club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6615	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, Honored colleagues and colleagues. So here's the thing about this topic and this bill we have a lot of practice in Croatia. It is true that there are, in practice, problems with estrangement of property that do not have so-called so-called property. A positive note. It is also true that on this issue there is an unequal case law of land-book departments of municipal courts and even county courts. It is also true that this has an extremely negative impact on the economy since it makes it impossible or at least significantly difficult to transport real estate, which has a negative impact on the economy itself and not only on the real estate market but also on the business of construction entrepreneurs. For example, if someone wants to, and can’t buy an old building or upgrade it or renovate it, the activity of the building will also stop. Or, for example, It is not possible to charge real estate by fiduciary means to obtain credit or loan. Also, the state administration in these cases works slowly and is covered by the demands of citizens to issue various permits and acts, confirming that the building was built before 1968 and therefore does not need a building permit and the like, that it is about facilities that do not need a valid permit, etc., and which is frustrating both public officials and citizens alike. That's right. The only ones who profit in this chaos are geodesy engineers, designers and lawyers. Also, the existing legal arrangement drives the land and book departments of municipal courts to get involved in the assessment of the legality of the buildings that are listed in the land books, which is not their business and practice, is therefore unequal in that part leading to legal uncertainty. Apparently, the fight against illegal buildings has been paid by all citizens who just want to have a normal real estate traffic. In this sense, the proposed law wants to solve these problems and it is as such and positive. However, it is not quite true that the proposed law will not negatively affect the affirmation of the principle of full and truthfulness of data in land books. So-called positive notes, records of the works on which the buildings are built, or on which they may be used, also perform their public record function. For example, someone who wants to buy a house gets the knowledge of whether this facility has the necessary permits or not, which warns all legal participants that certain facilities are potentially risky. that they can be illegally built. In that case, someone may also buy an object that does not have the necessary permits, but at least they will not be able to say that he did not know about these facts. The completeness and truthfulness of land-book data would not have been played out with this proposal, but its significance would have been quite relatively relative. We believe that the problem could be better addressed by intervention in Article 22. The law on the treatment of illegally built buildings in such a way as to allow legal traffic for certain time periods of property that do not have so-called properties. A positive note. This would not violate the principle of trust in land books, during a certain period of time, citizens would have time to settle the documentation related to their facilities and to make the necessary observations in land books, and no negative effects for the economy itself would be created in order to enable real estate traffic during that period. Therefore, this bill in a way that is in a way necessary to resolve the real problems described sacrifice a part of the principle of trust in that land book itself. We believe that far greater problems are that real estate is sold without a valid permit, so the bank pays people who buy an apartment or puts them under charge because the investor fails to pay off the credit on annuities much higher. Evidence of this is also a recent case of property buyers in Rijeka who unfortunately are not as lonely in our Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6616	Thank you. In the name of the SDSS club, the distinguished representative Jovo Vukovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6617	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I would refer to this law, under number one, about the transport of real estate in the Republic of Croatia. If we look at what the administrative permit means and what's been going on with it for forty years. Until '68. year, so we don't have to prove whether we have an act on use or not. Since '68. Until '92. We could only sign up if we had an act on the use of land-book departments in courts, in county courts. Since '92. By 2007, there was also a period when it could be entered into the facility as such on land without having had an act of use. After 2007. We can't register again if we don't have it. What does that mean? People who were until '68. the years they had built their facilities they in most cases solved it. People who have been based on a positive rule since '92. by 2007 they entered as such that there are facilities of course with a positive note that they do not have an instrument of use but have an object, they have an object on that land they cannot after 2007. And now, especially with this new law, I can't deal with it and I can't do anything with it. In certain grants, they do not admit it when it goes into legal traffic towards another person or a third person. For this reason, the real estate market doesn't just care about this. It stopped for a number of other reasons. It stopped for economic reasons. But one of the little segments in this mosaic is certainly this part that one part of the objects, so that 15 years can't practically be trafficked legally because it doesn't have a valid license, and it de facto exists on the ground. For this reason, the SDSS club supports this amendment to the law. We also support all the work of the Ministry of Construction that goes into the plan of a new law that literally all objects as far as possible will never be possible until the end to experience their legalization, meet the legal requirements, pay what they need to pay to be legalised, etc. Therefore, we support this, but we believe that this supplement is on track until the adoption of a new law to those objects that have been since '92. by 2007 registered that they can be trafficked legally that owners do not have the problem, and believe what my colleague before me said also affects construction, influences both work and everything else. We'll see how much that helps, but I think it's just got its own impact on the work itself. Not much, but it certainly has an impact on its work. Second, this amendment to the law, which is a reduction in the number of members by two members. As far as we are told on the board, it is exclusively about some financial elements that are not small. It's about $400,000. So any savings matter. We believe that this committee will certainly work well with a reduced number of members compared to now. And number three to which this amendment and supplement applies, which is that the administrative authorities do not have to supply building permits, confirmations of the main project, location permits to construction inspections. If we know, and we know what it is, I also support we know what a positive practice is to even start building an object is that you have to build a construction inspection seven days before it is to submit all acts including a sketch of the exclusion of the master engineer's solution, etc. So, in my opinion, you need to be duplicated and there's no reason to impose yet, that the administrative authorities have to deliver to the Building Inspector, when they already have to do so under a positive investor regulation because they can't build before they've filed with all the documentation behind it. And the construction inspection just beyond that approves that after 7 days you can start building these objects that you kind of have positive papers for. The SDSS club will absolutely support this amendment to the law because of those things I said. We also support the ministry's work to amend and supplement a new law that will surely go into the sense that it legalises facilities as much as possible, and thus also helps local self-government units to collect their specific incomes from municipal contributions in a way that will negotiate with certain individual owners, but will charge for, unlike now, what they have not charged. There will probably be ways around the meals as anything else depends on the size of the amount and everything else that is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6618	I thank my colleague Vukovic. We will be introduced to the HNS' views by distinguished representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6619	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. I would say what might be important to keep in mind that all colleagues and colleagues always keep in mind that in the adoption of all the laws and legal frameworks necessary for the functioning of whether the ministries, whether the Croatian states should always be in the service of our citizens, we are making such laws that will primarily simplify the procedure and that will facilitate the possibility of achieving individual rights of each citizen. Also, here in the debate it is said that these are small steps. I agree that small steps, but steps are of quality, to try to build a system that will be more functional, simpler, more quality and that will allow us to administer the administration. That's what I'd call it. In this bill, I can only say that these two laws that we had today are the first steps towards legalising illegally built buildings in the Republic of Croatia and that the conclusion of this job in legalising illegal buildings will be completed with the adoption of this law. We expect the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning to pass such a law to the Government very quickly, and then also to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia because the procedure for explaining this law began in the Republic of Croatia. What is also important in the adoption of this Law and I would say that perhaps the fundamental question is to put into office the personal identification number of citizens. According to information that I have that number now carries a total of 15% of the information on what every citizen owns and what he has. I believe that the efforts of both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministries in particular finance, the tax administrations must be zealously tasked with putting that number into office as soon as possible and then avoiding the possibilities and correspondence and mistrusts. Because every government official who's authorized he'll have exact information about the ownership of a particular property. As regards the very concrete proposals on the members of the Council for Spatial Planning, we believe that there will continue to be significant numbers and significant interactions of experts in the Council of Spatial Arrangements, but that the quality of decision-making will not be affected more significantly, given that the reduction from 9 to 7, and there will still be savings on the budget, I will not say significant but if that is 400, 500 thousand it is certainly a significant item for one ministry. Furthermore, it is good in the proposal for this law to delete the obligations of the bodies of the administrative bodies, the bodies that local permits are delivered to the construction inspection. I think it is at the beginning of the establishment of an e-registration and that it is unnecessary to accumulate investor obligations in order to transfer one document only from the Office of State Administration into inspection what we therefore consider to be a significant relief to this part of communication between the competent state authorities. Furthermore, and in this case, a positive note in the possession is deleted. There, counterpart Vukovic said well that the legislation of the last state has been different so far, that there was no obligation to place a burden on the owner and the current functioning of the law since 2011 is that those objects that do not have a record that they have been done illegally. So again we're bringing a citizen into a situation that has to prove that the facility is legal even though he had every option at that time. And these all the measures proposed under this law allow for a simpler way of working and a simpler flow of information. As far as this law is concerned, the HNS club will also support this law in awaiting that law, which may be the most important and biggest problem of passing the Law on the legalisation of illegally built objects. The HNS Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6620	I would like to thank my colleague Mandic, and I would like to invite distinguished representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev to introduce us to HDZ's views on the matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on spatial planning and construction is a fundamental law governing a system of spatial planning and construction in order to create assumptions for sustainable development in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is particularly valuable and limited national good. Before considering the proposed amendments to this law, it should be pointed out previously that this law came into force on 1 October 2007 and has since been amended three times. With the first amendment and addition of 2009, the law is in line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The second amendment and the 2011 amendment is in line with the new General Administrative Procedure Act with the aim of meeting the closure criteria of Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. The third amending law was adopted in July 2011, and based on a systematic analysis of 4 years of law enforcement with the active participation of state institutions and units of regional and local self-government, numerous associations of citizens, associations of counties, cities and municipalities. This amendment brought significant newspapers with the importance of stressing that the previous concept of space protection and management had not changed. It is important to point out that the impact analysis of the implementation of the 2007 law specifically pointed to the existence of a number of procedures for the construction and use of spatial planning documents as well as the long-term process for the implementation of these documents, the issue of works for the construction and use of buildings and the procedure for administrative and inspection supervision. The basic idea of space protection and quality management and the removal of barriers to investment in the Republic of Croatia have reduced the deadlines and the removal of excess procedures in the process of drawing up and adopting spatial plans for local and regional levels and their changes and additions, reduced the number of implementation plans required to be adopted and their scope has been facilitated. The development of implementing spatial plans has also been facilitated, the role and responsibility of the counties in the organisation and protection of the protected coastal area has been strengthened. The latest amendments to the law have made significant improvements in the segment of implementation of spatial order documents in terms of acceleration and simplification. For example, the existence of location permits and building acts as well as procedures for their adoption is accelerated. In particular, the procedures for amending and supplementing permits and acts, editing of building land, also enabled more appropriate management and use of certain parts of the protected coastal area. As regards illegally built buildings, it should be pointed out that an analysis of the implementation of the 2007 law has shown that the solution to the implementation state and the confirmation of the implementation state, and the former institutions for the handling of buildings built without, or contrary to, the act of the competent authority, are not sufficient to resolve the situation in space. the appearance of illegal construction. Therefore, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction deleted the provisions governing the adoption of a solution to the state of play, the issuing of a certificate of execution, and the problem of illegally built buildings was solved by a new special law, the Law on the handling of illegally built buildings. The latest amendments to the law also introduced the placing of notes in the land books of acts on the basis of which the building is to be used. It presents an affirmation of the principle of full and trueness of data in land books and the principle of trust in land books. We estimate that trust in land books is exactly the cornerstone of legal certainty in real estate transport. The amendments to the laws that are before us in the process of adopting the HDZ Representatives Club will not support for a number of reasons. We don't see, primarily, the reason for the emergency procedure to be reduced, for example. the number of members of the Board of Spatial Planning. A little while ago we hear we have a reduction of 9 by 2 to 7 members, and that's where we're going to have a savings of 450 to 500 thousand kuna. At this session, we will have the formation of a new agency that will have as many as 15 members in its board of directors. It would be convenient to calculate how much money it is. Furthermore, it is also harmful to assess and delete the obligation of the administrative body responsible for spatial planning and construction tasks to provide the Construction Inspector with a solution to the conditions of construction and confirmation of the main project it issues, or to provide the Urban Inspectorate with the local permits it issues. In fact, we consider this a good solution because the practice has shown that it is of great help when these inspections have knowledge and insight into these acts, and we do not see a reason to abolish the obligation to deliver these acts to the Civil and Urban Inspectorate until an announced database and applications for the issue of permits so-called. e-authority. Furthermore, we at the HDZ Club believe that amendments to this law should be considered and adopted at the same time as the announced amendments to the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. Here we primarily think about erasing the provisions that introduce the placing of notes in land books of acts on the basis of which the building is to be used and which represents the affirmation of the principle of full and truthfulness of data in land books. It is important to point out that the Ministry of Justice has provided all municipal courts with a detailed explanation concerning the provision of Articles 268a and 116. Laws on spatial planning and construction and provisions of Article 22 Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. It is clear from that reason that those provisions prohibit the alienation and exercise of the right of ownership of an illegally built building and land on which such a building was built, not buildings or land for which no recording of an act for the use of the building or for which no act for use has been issued. It is also apparent by reason that the evidence that the building is legally considered all acts issued for the construction, use or legalisation of the building is issued under those laws or on the basis of applicable laws governing the right area of construction as well as acts and documents prescribed by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which are equated with the legally built building. That explanation also clearly defined the behaviour related to the buildings entered in the land books by 20 November 1992 and from 1 October 2007. The purpose of the explanation of the Ministry of Justice was to ensure uniform implementation of those laws in the section relating to the transport of real estate and conduct in land-booked cases. According to that argument, the Ministry of Justice which unfortunately not all municipal courts applied uniformly and implemented clearly that these provisions of the law were not obstacles to the transport of real estate. For these reasons, the HDZ Representatives Club does not support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6622	I thank my colleague, Martinchev. So we're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the honourable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6623	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try very briefly to look back on what I think is the most important aspect of these amendments and the addition of the Law on spatial planning and construction. These are the amendments concerning Article 268a and Article 116. Law amending and supplementing the Law on spatial planning and construction. Namely, when the amendment to the law came into force in August last year at one point, all constructions in the Republic of Croatia were declared illegal. So every house, every building, every barn, every garage all at one point became illegal has become illegal. And at the same time with the other law, so-called. The Law on Legalization forbidds the traffic of illegal buildings. So in August last year no one in the Republic of Croatia legally could sell his house, his apartment couldn't sell any building. By almost destroying the transport of real estate at the moment the construction sector in the Republic of Croatia was in a deep crisis. It's something we need to change. At the moment that we are trying to get the Republic of Croatia out of the severe crisis in which every traffic ban lies, every traffic burden is illegal. That's why not only do we have to support these amendments to the law but we have to support them in such an emergency procedure. I won't be long because I think the message is clear. And exactly what Madam Deputy Minister said, we must now adopt this, we must correct the situation in which we have been brought to, and in time, first through the Law on Legalisation, and later on through one systematic amendment, and possibly through a new Law on Spatial Planning and a new Construction Act, that we should bring this sector down to the extent that it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6624	Thank you, fellow coat of arms. I urge the esteemed representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisanić to present his debate. She's gone, then she loses her right to argue on this agenda point. Next in line is the esteemed representative Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here in this debate, actually, Mr. Peja said the taste of all these amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, but I would like to take a few turns on a few issues, given that I am a geodetic by profession and that I worked in a cataster and that I could make a film or write a book on laws that were passed and that we had to implement. And I must admit that we have many times wondered if it is possible that such a law has been passed at all because it is inconclusive. And of course we're confusing people on the ground for the simple reason there at the end of the '80s you could have entered an object in the land book that he would have been illegal if you hadn't had any paper. When the geodette came out on the spot when we put that object on a particle in people's space they thought they had a legal object. Based on it, they got a loan in the bank and it never occurred to anyone that they would ever need any document to prove that the facility was legal again. We have another problem, and that is that many of the buildings that were built in the 1980s, the 1970s when the boom construction in the Republic of Croatia had construction permits, but now only now came to them with water. They had connections to illegal water lines or connections only to hydrants. And now they're not based on an orderly construction.../The speaker turned off./... they could come out, so they bring a document that they have a registered legal structure from the garland to bring to Zabok into the waterway so they can join. And not only did he say that at one point, the coat of arms actually turned out to be objects legally illegal, we also prevented real estate traffic, but we prevented the entry of objects and we prevented people from exercising their rights. I would also say that there is no more need to delete the provision under which the administrative bodies have an obligation to provide urban and construction inspection with local permits, solutions on building conditions and confirmation of major projects, but it should be said that inspection is a body that must monitor the legality of building facilities. And look what's going on, we're now preparing for amendments and additions to the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings because we've put ourselves in a position to have 150 thousand objects in Croatia that should be legalized. But look what we did, we systematically reduced the number of inspectors on the ground. I will now make an example of the Krapina-Zagorje County, which has 133 thousand inhabitants, which has 32 units of local self-government covering 4 building inspectors. And the inspectors can literally kill themselves, they can't cover that area. And what they're doing, they're doing by application. And now the people who got the building permit, the good part of them don't go to the inspector and don't report the construction, and you need to know that. I therefore propose to the Deputy Minister, since each county or city office responsible for issuing acts, regardless of the confirmation of the main project, building permit or other act, it shall make itself a register of issued permits or acts and, at the monthly level, inform the inspection. Because it's not any paperwork, it's on a list of papers where the investor writes, writes the number of cadastral particles and the number of cadastrian municipalities, and that's enough information for a construction inspection to know that at that point a building permit has been issued in a particular area and that there's an opportunity to get an insight. Because why, in our country, people still think that project documentation is being done and there's a permit for what needs to be obtained, not because the team is being arranged for space. And then when you get a license, they get a neat permit for the house 10x10, and they make 10x12. He gets permission to move away from the traffic station 8 meters, and he's gonna move 12 or 6. And that's why the state tried several times with that sketch... who worked the geodetics to define the space and really that permit that's being issued to work for it. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, that's not the way it is with us, and we need to take care of it and when we go into the amendments and the additions of the law, when we're going to legalize those 150 thousand objects, we have to, if we've drawn the line, if we said there's an end to illegal construction, we have to work on the inspection. And another clean thinking that has already been said in this assembly by a fellow representative of the Mayor of Zabok, Mr. Ivan Hanzek, should be considered that municipal directors should in some way become deputy building inspectors. If it's in someone's interest to respect construction, if it's in someone's interest for space management to be defined and legal, then it's local self-government units. We, and on the basis of the buildings built and charge a lot of dage from people on the basis of this act, and building permits and it is important for us to have order in the space. So I'm asking you to think about these things I've just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6626	Thank you, colleague Kolar. It's time for the debate, dear representative Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6627	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister of Construction, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin the debate on this law by quoting Article 48 of that law, where a protected coastal area is defined, and these are how the law quotes protected natural values and cultural and historical aspects which are areas of particular interest for this country. I can conclude that today, as the PDO predicts, it is unfortunately completely devastated and in the complete opposite of the mentioned article. So we allow the coastal belt to devastate and today, unfortunately, we compare it with the disease that metastasized and affected our entire coast. The coast is the most valuable thing we have and that beauty has attracted millions of tourists to our country, as well as millions of euros in the state budget. I'd like to say why there was a devastation of our coast and a protected coastal belt, which is that no construction procedures are allowed if the land is less than 3 hectares of surface area, i.e. 30 thousand m2, and for example Dalmatia along the coast and islands, a small number of people have such land in one place. Therefore, it would be useful to reduce that area to 1 hectare or 10 thousand m2 and to enable the construction of exclusively traditional houses of no more than 30 m2 with traditional construction, all in order to stop illegal construction on the coast and on islands. I must say that I support the Minister's announcements on the state of affairs and finally the right to reflect on the urbanization of our country, but it would certainly be good if this law and the Law on legalisation were brought in parallel. It is true that these measures taken by amending this law will facilitate our people's legalization and registration of buildings in land books. But we have to keep an eye on a problem that has been happening so often, and it's possible to knowingly avoid paying for a municipal contribution by model I'm going to start a company to build an apartment building, I'm going to pay for a war of communal contributions, I'm going to get papers, I'm going to sell the building, and I'm going to close the firm, so let the municipalities and cities collect from what they want and I can, aware that this money is going to be very hard to collect, almost by no means. The big problem that must also be taken into account is that a large number of mobile appliances for housing, camphouses, construction containers, which today create an ugly picture of Croatian tourism on the Adriatic, and the legal possibility is minimal to remove almost none. Owners of such devices buy land on islands miles from established borders of the settlement, remove total vegetation, and place on such land a camp house that changes several families, friends, neighbors and relatives during the summer months by breaking a series of laws on non-payment of a tourist tax and I will not even talk about hygiene conditions. This model should be urgently serviced, and such devices should obtain the status of an object to be treated as a fixed object. Finally, I support the Government of the Republic of Croatia's announcements on the launch of the state-of-the-art and urbanisation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6628	Thank you. The latest debate was the esteemed representative Ingrid Atnicevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I support this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, such as myself and all my colleagues when it was passed, when the last amendments to the law were passed in 2010 all set to make such changes possible, i.e. make an even bigger mess. And so here I welcome this proposal from the ministry itself, and also from all my colleagues who have said about it that these provisions that have created a whole series of irregularities, uncertainty, and even among those people who want to legalize their buildings, and that there are citizens of the first and second order, that we are not saying that this has caused great confusion and in our judiciary, specifically in courts in land and book departments. Let's just point out that the land-booking process is strictly formal procedure and that, with such changes, all doubts and dilemmas are removed as to what it is to do to the land-book department itself. So there will be no more situations in which, therefore, this realm that is now being wiped out will be created by citizens, as well as by those who implement the law and courts of different interpretations. Someone on one committee who was established that this is what we give in some way and encourage an illegal construction. I must say, with these changes, one such dilemma is removed so that such a building does not have all the necessary permits. The question arises if this is indeed feasible, and we have seen from practice that it is not what would happen to all those litigation of property rights over those buildings where, therefore, doubts as to who owns it or who owns it, and this property is not registered in land books, nor does it have any idea that the other legal regulations will enrol it. And such litigation takes up a great deal of space, that is, the great involvement of our judicial bodies. So, first of all, it's basic not to rush court and administrative matters. So, if we also link this to these amendments to the announced amendments to the Law on the treatment of amendments to the laws on the treatment of illegally built buildings that are announced, I believe that we will finally come out to the citizens that all those buildings that, for various reasons, have been illegally created, above all, the inactivity and passivity of certain administrative bodies, and the citizens, of course, want very badly at one decent and one possible price that they can pay for such buildings to do so. But also to draw the line that every future construction that has no assumptions and no such initiative will be cut down in one step at a time. So here's the conclusion. By supporting this bill, it should be emphasized that citizens are going out to meet, and this is our basic initiative if we cannot already help not to harm them. And in this way, with this bill of law, we are very much helping citizens in the situation they were in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6630	Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote today when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 62. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to make a statement about this final bill. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes for, 21 against, 6 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6632	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. She'll be hoping to be brief but you never know that. 31. (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in accordance with Article 29. The law on the protection of personal data. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Here you go. Mr. Zoran Piculjan, Deputy Minister of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6633	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is the end of the mandate of current officials at the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data with 30 April and before you is the proposal for the appointment of Dubravka Bilić and Mrs Dubravka Dolenc as director and deputy director of this agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6634	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. We'll also vote on that when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6635	The next item has a b.a./ Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, that is under a. The debate is concluded. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on discharge. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes, 88 votes in favour, 21 against and 1 abstentions are a decision on the resolution of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in the text proposed by the Proposer. b/ Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision appointing. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 24 abstentions, have been decided on the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in the text proposed by the Proposer. I wish them a lot of success in their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6636	And we still have the final point, it's for today's session of course. So these are elections, appointments and resolutions. Mr. Shime Lucin, chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs is already behind the pay phone, so I ask him to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6637	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Pursuant to Article 91(1), (2) and (3) of Article 118(2) and Article 244. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament under the 1st Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Council of the Public Institution mentioning the area of Jasenovac, 2nd Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency and 3rd Proposal for a Decision appointing two members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament on the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Those proposals are made by the Committee... at its 9th session on 19 April 2012. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, as a member of the Public Institution Council, the mention of the Jasenovac area is called Mr. Zoran Vasic, representative of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6638	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I am finalising and voting the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. The decision was adopted by a majority of votes, 108 votes for and 2 abstentions. Here you go, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6639	Thank you. Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency. For a member of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Agency, Igor Radjenović is elected member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6640	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So we adopted this decision unanimously with 110 votes. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6641	Thank you. And a proposal for a decision to appoint two members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean is named Melita Mulić and Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6642	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for this decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. And we adopted this decision with 110 votes. Congratulations and I want a lot of success in the work and Mr. Zoran Vasic and Mr. Representative Igor Radinović and Mrs. Meliti Mulic and Agent Ante Babic. Today's work is over. We continue on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 60. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Now we move to choice, appointments, resolutions. First of all, we have under: (a) The resignation of Representative Vladimir Seks as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament and (a) the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ for the discharge of the representative of Jadranka Kosor as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament and the appointment of 2 vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament. Let's go first to a, so the resignation of Agent Vladimir Seks to the office of vice president of the Croatian Parliament. You took the resignation of Croatian Vice President Vladimir Seks on the bench. Does Vice President Shakespeare want to take his word for it? Here you go. Yes, yes, you're the promoter and you have the right to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6644	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. In the first place, I would like to thank all MPs and MPs, I could be a club, a HDZ club who proposed me to be an honorary vice president of the Croatian Parliament, as well as all the other representatives and representatives from all the political parties who unanimously elected me as vice president of the Croatian Parliament on 23 December. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been in the Croatian Assembly since I was 1990. I was elected on seven occasions as representative of the Croatian Parliament. I acted in these 22 years and on four occasions by the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in one term of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Committee on the Constitution, the Constitutional Commission, the Committee on Legislativeness and a number of other bodies in the Croatian Parliament and in those 22 years as a representative of the Croatian Parliament, in this assembly I had the privilege and privilege to take part in the key strategic decisions concerning Croatian statehood, freedom, independence, independence from the Christmas Constitution in 22.12.1990, which has routed Croatia as a democratic country, which has routed to Croatia's independence since 25 June 91 in this assembly which has routed Croatia into a sovereign and independent state since October 8th, which meant a definitive and final breakup with all the bindings that have already formed the missing Yugoslav Federation to those constitutional decisions in Croatia. So this 22 years, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I participated independently in the duties that I was in the Croatian Parliament in making these key, important decisions concerning Croatian statehood, independence, sovereignty, to travel the way of Croatia as a democratic state, and I am immeasurably proud and grateful to all those who supported me on this road. I decided to resign as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament at the time I lost the political trust of part of the Supreme Authorities of my party to the Croatian Democratic Union. I accepted that because when, I lost confidence that I was still acting as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I have accepted this because I believe that democracy, democratic parties and democratic life should also take those decisions made by the majority, which are made by the appropriate party bodies, even if these decisions seem inappropriate, wrong, harmful, deeply unfair, that such decisions should also be taken on a stoic basis and withdrawn from such decisions. And therefore I have also submitted all the conjecture and submitted an irrevocable resignation to the post of vice president of the Croatian Democratic Union. I thank all of those, my colleagues and colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community, from the Croatian Democratic Community club who gave me the trust of that on December 23rd last year when they elected me here with the others as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I thank those who now deny me that trust and respect their reasons. I want colleagues who will soon perform these high honorary Tomislav Culjak and Željko Reiner with great happiness and success in the behaviour of the Vice-President of the Croatian Democratic Union, the Parliament and I will continue to serve my foreigner with continued and dedicatedness, both to the Croatian people and to Croatia at all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6645	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. Let me say a few words. I thank Mr Vladimir Seks for the total contribution he made as a prominent member of the Croatian Parliament, vice-president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, political system, vice president of the Croatian Parliament and president of the Croatian Parliament in the fifth term. I personally worked very well with him in these six months, and I wish him much success in carrying out the duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament in the future. I hereby conclude the debate and give the vote of the motion for a decision on the discharge of representative Vladimir Seks as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament on a personal request. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that by a majority of the 126 votes, five abstentions, a decision on the resolution of MP Vladimir Seks is the post of vice president of the Croatian Parliament on a personal request. We move to point b) is the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community for the discharge of representative Jadranka Kosor as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament and the appointment of two vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal, you took it on the bench. Does the representative of the HDZ Representatives Club want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6647	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to thank all of you who, as well as Vice President Shakespeare, voted in favour of my election last December for Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would certainly like to thank the special representatives and representatives of the HDZ who proposed me, so it was a proposal from my party's club to be elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I think that I have done my duties as vice president in these six months, that Mr. President, I have worked well with you in the name of my club at a certain time and as president of the HDZ Club, and even in that period when we held internal elections at HDZ, when and when I considered my job primarily in the Croatian Parliament because I was chosen to be a representative and when I regularly and regularly came and worked and represented the interests of my party, but the interests of all those who chose me. I would like to say a few words in favour of the fact that all those of you who gave me confidence in the Vice President of the Parliament on 23 December, or rather that you were not mistaken then, because you probably decided to do so because of everything that I am in politics, and I have been in politics since '95. and worked and did and certainly because of the results that I can certainly say exist. So in that joint work since '95. As I was saying, I entered the Croatian Parliament after the election President Tudjman himself invited me to. I had the honour and great pleasure at the time since I was elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament here to sit here in the middle row between Mr. Domljan and Mr. Seks, so two people I personally admired for what they did in political life. I must thank Vice President Seks, or Vladimir Seks, the representative here at a certain time, the President of the Croatian Parliament, because in those first days I certainly learned a lot from him. What I did in the first session of the Parliament was certainly in the interest of my party, but certainly in Croatian best interests. I will mention that I also had the honour and pleasure of visiting both Vukovar and Beli Manastir for the first time during a peaceful reintegration period, that during the peaceful reintegration of the Parliament together with Vladimir Seks, I often contributed to the best interests of the Republic of Croatia. Since 2000, I have been an opposition representative, but some may also remember being named in the selection of journalists who follow the work of the Parliament and the best representative of the time. After the 2003 election, I was Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Family, Defence, Intergenerational Solidarity. At that time we also passed the Law on the Rights of Defence, established the Fund, the Foundation of Croatian Defences, and made many important projects that are here today and this Government also implements and respects and that are in the interest of both defenders and all Croatian citizens and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President as Prime Minister and president of the HDZ, I thought I could say perhaps in the most difficult times, at times when the GDP drop was and more than 6% so for the past 2.5 years, when we faced a huge crisis, we proposed an economic recovery programme, that's something I'm particularly proud of. I have made my contribution in the fight against corruption and in the fight against crime in the best way. The government I led also passed laws on the financing of political parties, laws on the confiscation of property to those who have sinned against the laws of corruption and crime. We, too, have, in the past 2 years and since July 2009, made many decisions that are important and that are certainly among other things the basis and today's stability of Croatia as regards the rating and the Fiscal Responsibility Act, as well as the conclusion of the negotiations. Mr. President, I consider the conclusion of the negotiations to be one of the greatest and most important achievements of both the HDZ and the government that I have led. Here is now about a year or better said June 24th is a year since Mr Barroso and Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Orban and I were at a ceremony where Croatian negotiations were announced. Everything I've done and thought in my entire political life that everything I do should be in Croatia's interest, and I also felt that all that is in Croatia's interest is in HDZ's interest. It was an honor to share these benches with the founder of HDZ's only founder, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare. I also thank him for the fact that he showed that politics could remain consistent, so from the beginning, here he was, and campaigning at HDZ, he was there for me, and he supported me, and it remained until the end. I think it's important to say that, and as a message, perhaps to young politicians. It can also be done in politics even though many have written and many have said that they will leave me in the first turn. But he didn't do it, and that's why I thank him. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm gonna do. Today, my shift will be voted by those I received a few months ago, included in the HDZ and those I proposed in this House as Prime Minister, and then the Prime Ministers, but also those for whom I was particularly the president of the HDZ to be on the HDZ lists and to be representatives today. I accept that, it's a political reality, that's how it is. I am absolutely certain that at this point I am turning a new page in both my life and my political life. As a representative, I will continue to represent the same interests and values that I have represented both as HDZ President and as Prime Minister. And Mr. President, I want to thank you and thank you for your cooperation so far, and I'm sure it'll be good in the future. And I want to take this opportunity and deny some inscriptions that I can certainly harm you, but also me, that somewhere in a secret meeting we agreed on my going to diplomacy. It's simply not true and it's something that obviously needs to be damaged by an additional me. So I deny it, I remain a representative in the Croatian Parliament because I think being a representative is a huge honor that is indicated for rare people and here I will faithfully and faithfully continue to serve my country and work in the best interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6648	Thank you too, Vice President Kosor. Mr. Representative Vladimir Seks came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6649	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I express one regret, one disappointment at what has happened to me by my party's unfortunate decisions to deny Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's trust in the vice president, for further status as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I think that in her current political life and as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament and as a representative, she acted responsibly, knowingly, and as in the last two and a half years and as vice-president of the party and the prime minister of the government gave a significant one pain to three important fronts: the management of the state crisis, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and at Croatia's accession to the EU. I am sorry that her efforts and the fruits of political work are not recognized, I am sorry that she was brought into connection with the HDZ internal elections with the survival of Vice President Kosor as vice president. I don't think it's a sensible and good decision, but I'm gonna take it the same way as a party legalist accepts it and respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6650	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who's answering from the MPs or the advocate for the word? No, I don't. Please also allow us before we go to the vote to say that I have worked very well with Madam Vice President Kosor, that we have no objection to the views of the various political positions that we have had. You've seen them in public, but that's part of our job. So I thank you again for your good cooperation. I am also voting on the motion for a decision on the discharge of Jadranka Kosor's representative as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that the majority of votes, 124 votes for, 7 abstentions, have been decided on the resolution of Jadranka Kosor's representative as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament. I am now voting on the motion for a decision on the election of MP Željko Reiner as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Please state who's in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that most votes, 126 votes in favour of, 5 abstentions, no one against, a decision on the election of representatives of Zeljko Reiner as vice president of the Croatian Parliament has been made. Congratulations and I want a lot of success in the work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6656	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On 14 June, the Committee for Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs set out the following proposals for a decision: - Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the President and termination of the term of office of the President of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament for the Chairman of the Committee is elected Zlatko Komadin, and Michael Zmajlović is hereby resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6657	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? This proposal for a decision has been adopted unanimously by 124 votes. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6658	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of the chair of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament Dinko Buric is hereby dismissed, Mr. Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6659	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Against? Restraint? So, we made a proposal for this decision with 122 votes unanimously. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6660	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of the president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. The president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Željko Reiner, is hereby dismissed. Jasen Mesic is elected president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. ... Excuse me, Vice President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6661	I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We adopted this motion with 121 votes unanimously. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6662	Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of the Vice-President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. Vice-President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Tomislav Culjak is hereby dismissed. The vice president of the Croatian Parliament's Mandate-Immunity Commission is elected Miljan Brkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6663	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? And we adopted this motion for a decision unanimously with 120 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6664	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Joseph Salapic. A member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is elected Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6665	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We unanimously made this decision with 121 votes. Thank you. We can move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6666	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of two members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised. Danesh Shaw. For members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee, Nedzad Hodzic and Dražko Pandek are elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6667	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Against? Restraint? Thank you. The proposal was adopted unanimously by 122 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6668	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Igor Dragovan is elected member of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. On 8 March 2012, a member of the Defence Committee ceases to act as Mršić for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6669	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The decision was adopted unanimously with 122 votes. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6670	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. Zlatko Komadina is elected member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. On 8 March 2012, a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Mršić for the term of office of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6671	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The proposal is to determine this decision unanimously with 121 votes. We can move on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6672	Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. Member of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Joseph Salapic. A member of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee is elected Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6673	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're closing the debate, maybe we can, now we're about halfway through the other hand voting. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? The proposal was adopted unanimously with 120 votes. Here you go, Mr. President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6674	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the selection of two members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament. For members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament is selected by the magistrate Zoran Vasic and Ivana Posavec Krivec. On 13 April 2012, the member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee stopped acting as Ada Damjanac due to the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6675	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I said this for two hands for a balance, to make it easier for us. I find that the motion for a decision was adopted unanimously with 120 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6676	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. Željko Mirković is elected member of the Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6677	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I close the debate, put the motion to vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I say unanimously with 120 votes we have adopted a proposal for this decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6678	Following the Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament. Members, pardons, member of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament Željko Kerum and a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development of the Croatian Parliament are hereby elected Đurđica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6679	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I close the debate, put the motion to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We have made this proposal for a decision, I say unanimously with 120 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6680	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament is elected Zlatko Komadin. On 13 April 2012, the responsibilities of the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Ada Damjanac because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6681	I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We also unanimously adopted this proposal for a 120-vote decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6682	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of two members and the selection of two members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. The Đurdjica Sumrak and Tanja Vrban are hereby relieved of their duties as members of the Mandato-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament are selected by Željko Kerum and Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6683	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? We adopted the motion for this Decision with 119 votes unanimously. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6684	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of two alternate members and the appointment of two members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The duties of deputy members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ana Comparić-Devčić, Nikola Vuljanic, are hereby dismissed. As deputy members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, they are called Melita Mulic and Nansi Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6685	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I close the debate, put the motion for a decision to vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. We adopted this decision unanimously with 119 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6686	Thank you very much. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the strategy, combat corruption. For members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the strategy, the control of corruption is called Branko Roglic, the employer of employers, Anton Filic, the magistrate Vesna Kesic, the representative of NGOs, Dr Viktor Gotovina, the representative of the academic community, Jasminka Trzn, the expert representative, Nikola Kristic, media representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6687	I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go. And Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. First of all, here's Mr. Representative Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6688	Your Honor, Mr. President. Contrary to established and good parliamentary practice, when both the position and the opposition sort of agree on the choice of people in individual working bodies. This is extremely, would say a significant body, the National Council has proposed members that we have failed to agree with representatives of the ruling. Therefore, our proposal would be not to make this decision, but to eventually get time to agree and make our proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6689	Thank you. Mr. Representative Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6690	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On the Committee for the Selection of Appointments, it was said that the views on these names were agreed and then we realized that something was happening in the Croatian Parliament that should not be a practice and we should continue to work in the way that is common in parliamentary democracy. It is obvious that there is communication between the ruling majority and only one opposition party, that not only on this example, even this communication seems to be missing. But we have seen that there is, that practice has become that the Club of Representatives of the SDP communicates and seeks the views of the Croatian Labour Club itself and that the Club of Representatives of the HDZB and the Club of Representatives as far as I think Croatian Labourers are concerned. That's not good. And we are part of the opposition, the opposition is not only HDZ and you have seen today's vote that we of the HDSB Club have stuck to that agreement as it is otherwise in the parliamentary practice that existed when the Croatian Parliament was established when it came to the division of duties and obligations that each of us should work here. We do not question the right of any club or HDZ, neither Croatian Labourers nor, but we also do not allow the HDZB club to be ignored. We are the fourth largest club in the number of representatives and I ask that our club be treated with due respect because it is not respect for us but respect for the voters we represent in the Croatian Parliament. So I ask the representatives of the ruling, I am thinking first of all of the representatives of the ruling coalition to continue with that practice as it was at the beginning of the formation of the Croatian Parliament and therefore I am asking you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, to contribute to your authority that these things no longer happen. So, whenever it comes to it, especially before us now is the fill-up of the board and on the subject of outside members. And I believe that we who are the opposition, the opposition clubs, and sit there as it should be, together we will agree with the ruling distribution, so these quotas, and then within the opposition as we agree so will be. But you can't only negotiate SDP and HDZ because you are not only representing Croatian citizens, but here is our club, and I believe they share that opinion and Croatian Labourists. But here I am speaking on behalf of the HDSSB club. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6691	Okay. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6692	And yet once again, while counterpart Buric mentioned in the first part of his exposure that there was no consultation between HDZ and SDP in this point in the end, he ended up saying that HDZ and SDP were only being negotiated. So, because of the clarification in this case, there was no consultation and we disagreed on the name.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6693	At least I heard Mr. Representative Buric say no in this case. But, well, maybe I didn't hear right. It's possible, anything's possible. Mr. Representative, SDP club president Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6694	First of all, I would like to say that the position of the SDP is to be chosen today by the members of the Anti-Corruption Council, that this is our position, and on the other hand we in the SDP, or we cannot be coordinators and opposition. The fact is that we need to talk more, I agree that we should use it in practice, and that's what we're going to do. On the other hand, I'm a little surprised that the proposal will be delivered to all parties and representatives of the committee three weeks ago. About the proposal I met the HDZ Club has already had a dozen days, they were familiar with the proposal. I didn't get any other answer from that, so I just want my fellow vice presidents to check in on what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6695	Now you can make an correction because he was a representative of the club. Okay. An individual debate. Here you go. That's right. Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6696	I would also like to say that outside of parliamentary practice this decision is that Croatian Labourists did not participate in the agreement and I think it is inappropriate when the president of the SDP Club says some opposition is cooperating. I think if that's the answer to this behavior in Parliament, then you should make that public, yes. First of all, the Croatian Labour Club requires that no decision be taken today. A decision can be made after consulting with all club presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6697	Thank you. Individual debate Mr. Representative Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6698	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to appeal if we don't make that decision today, too, because it's about a very important body. This is about fighting corruption, which is one of the key topics for the development of Croatian society, for the development of the Croatian state. There was obviously no adequate communication between ruling and opposition parties. I think we can make it right by agreeing in the next seven days and trying to get our names straight. But I would also like to point out that a practice has been introduced that has not been present in the Croatian Parliament so far that the ruling majority of hands, with the power of numbers, is trying to impose some solutions. Here I don't just think about, and why? I beg you, Mr. President. Mr. Luchin's even banging on his head how funny he is. [[President: Yes, yes, of course. But you know this thesis of yours is interesting. But you have the right to say it nicely and yes, please. Please, Mr. Representative Jandrokovic says please allow him to speak./]] You know who's banging on his head when something's funny, so I'd like to appeal one more time to discuss this kind of thing. Why am I saying that? Why does it matter? You are proposing the Law on Croatian Radio Television, which most of you want to determine the director of Croatian Radio Television. You're going into an adventure that's not good. Remember your proposals ultimately this proposal that we have today is your proposal where you asked society, associations, different stakeholders to participate in the selection of directors of HRT, so I would ask you not to introduce practice and to forcefully change what was good in the Croatian Parliament. A lot of things you've been complaining about, you used to be right, you used to be wrong, but here I think we've done something useful for Croatia to make a consensus on things like fighting corruption, like freedom of the media, freedom of public television, and I appeal to you not to change that. Today it may seem useful to you for your political interests, tomorrow you may be the victim of it and we do not want to, we want to decide such things together because it is useful for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6699	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Buric Dinko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6700	Your Honor, Mr. President. So I'm correcting an incorrect quote we misplaced thesis. It is not a problem to impose will as you have said by force of hand or number somehow there has been, the problem is in the absence of communication between, do not ask any of Mr Dragovan for you to be... /The speaker excluded./... please do not exclude me, but therefore you should cooperate with all clubs regardless of whether they are HDZ, HDSSB or Croatian Labourists and other representatives who do not have their own clubs. And I'll just explain, before the vote let me just do it, so we won't be against it, we're not asking for a delay in voting on the appointment of these members of the Anti-Corruption Council. We're inside the club said ok. We are acceptable, all represented, all 6 categories, but we are against the way that we began to practice in the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6701	Thank you. An individual debate Mr. Representative of Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6702	Thank you very much. Well, I don't really understand this request for a continuance. Since we consulted and talked on the board, since it was confirmed that the HDZ Club was informed, as representatives of both Croatian Labourists and also HDSSB were in favour. HDZ members have split up, I don't know three against, two abstentions or two against, everything can be seen in the record. But that's not why I answered. I understand why Mr. Jandrokovic was saying what he was saying because he was not in the Croatian Parliament in the last term. Before you ask yourself how it worked and how it was chosen and what good practice it was. Far from standing up for that practice. I think we need to talk, and we need to coordinate things, but we're accusing someone of what he spent four years doing, and I think it's a little too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6703	Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6704	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's incorrect for a colleague of Lucin to say there's no delay on the board. A delay has been requested by HDZ representatives and then you say it was confirmed on the board. You did some phone call that didn't, you went outside. Who you talked to and how I don't know, but it's very clear here that there was no consultation with the HDZ club. And in that part, we were against it. We were three against and one abstention to be precise to the end. But I think in any case we're looking for a delay as we represent our club today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6705	Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6706	I'm sorry to answer, but when someone says it's been confirmed that the HDZ Club has been notified, it's simply not true, and we've heard that in two of our colleagues' statements. The matter is important, and I think that in the end we should not now sharpen the spear and swords but that we can agree on it. So, just for information, the HDZ Club has one president and three vice presidents who are authorized to represent and negotiate it. None of them received a proposal or made a statement about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6707	We've come to the end of this debate. Having regard to the debate and the proposal by the Committee on Selection and Designation, I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Council for the Monitoring and Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I'm sorry, just once again it's only 87 for and against 30. I therefore find that, given that the majority of votes adopted the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Council for the Monitoring and Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. There we have come to an end as regards the determination of the addition of the agenda and the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6708	We move to - Selection, appointments and resolutions of the President of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, Mr Lucin, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 11th session, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament set out the following proposals for decisions. The first is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President and the resolution of the selection of members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Vice-President of the Committee shall be dismissed. Joseph Salapic. Ana Lovrin is elected Vice-President of the Committee. A member of the Committee, Ana Lovrin, is dismissed and Shimo Djurdjevic is elected as a member of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6710	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No, nobody's answering. I am closing the debate and I am voting on the motion for a decision. By raising our hands, may we please state who is in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? The abstentions? There isn't. I agree with 109 votes for the proposed decision. Please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6711	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the Vice-President and the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. Vice-President Frano Matušić is dismissed. Davor Ivo Stier is elected Vice-President of the Committee. A member of the Committee, Davor Ivo Stier, is hereby appointed and is hereby elected Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6712	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. I am closing the debate and I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 110 votes for the proposed decision. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6713	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee Tomislav Karamarko is dismissed, and Zvonko Milas and Ilija Filipovic are elected for members of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6714	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Are there any interested? There isn't. I am closing the debate and I am making a motion for a vote. I'm asking you to raise your hand and let us know who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 110 votes for the proposed decision. Continue your esteemed colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6715	Thank you. The following is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the Vice-President and the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Health and Social Care of the Croatian Parliament. The Vice-President of the Committee shall be dismissed. Dujomir Marasovic, elected vice president of the board, is Darko Milinovic. Member of the Committee for Members Darko Milinović is hereby authorised, Dr. Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6716	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we plead by raising our hands for the motion decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? There is. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find most of the vote 108 for and 2 abstentions a proposed decision has been made. Continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6717	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and election of the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. The chairman of the board Darko Milinovic is dismissed, and Jadranka Kosor is elected president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6718	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we plead by raising our hands for the motion decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I agree with 110 votes for the proposed decision. Continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6719	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee of Davorin Mlakar is hereby authorised, but Branko Kuti is elected as a member of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6720	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we plead by raising our hands to the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? Thank you very much. I agree with the majority that, unanimously, with 110 votes, the proposed decision has been made. Continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6721	Finally, the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President and the election of the President of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. National Council President Ana Lovrin is dismissed, and Vladimir Seks is elected president of the National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6722	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we plead by raising our hands for the motion decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find the proposed decision has been accepted and taken unanimously with 110 votes 108 for. I congratulate all the chosen and wish them success in the working bodies of the Parliament. We have exhausted today's agenda for today's session. I schedule that the Croatian Parliament will start working on Monday with a plenary session on July 2nd at 14.00 p.m. on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, with the Final Proposal for a Law. I want you to rest, and we'll continue on Monday's orna for work. Every good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6723	We move to the elections, appointments and resolutions, so we have a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the governor of the Croatian National Bank and the termination of the term of office of governor of the Croatian National Bank. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of Mr. Shim Luchin to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament at the 12th session held on 4 July adopted a proposal for a decision to appoint a governor of the Croatian National Bank and to suspend the term of office of governor of the Croatian National Bank and to suspend the term of office of governor of the Croatian National Bank. As Governor of the Croatian National Bank on 8 July 2012, Dr. Boris Vujčić, under two, the term of office of the Governor of the Croatian National Bank on 7th of July 2012 ends Dr. It's Rohatinski's turtle. The explanation and all the materials you're attached to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6725	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, a distinguished representative, Dragutin Lesar, appeared for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just one check. Did any of the MPs get this proposal in writing with an explanation? Everybody, great. Today? No, I don't. Great. It's always a good check. I am sorry that for starters, I have to point out the dissatisfaction with all the procedures that followed before today's debate and decision-making. In fact, the entire Croatian public had the opportunity to testify that the decision not to extend or not to accept the current governor and in the third term was not made in the Assembly but in the executive government. although according to the CNB Act, the executive authority of the Government has no right to interfere in a procedure which is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. And by then, the Prime Minister's statement, for the first time, we heard that it was announced in advance that parliamentary deputies would vote on the proposal. It wasn't a good start. However, neither what followed in the procedure in the Assembly was a continuation of a sloppy procedure that was not good when it came to the appointment of the governor of the CNB. Namely, the Croatian Labour Club and the Committee asked that a public conversation be held before the final decision was made with the candidate, so-called The interview. Today, the Parliament is in a position to make a decision on this on the basis of a résumé, and would the candidate himself agree to answer the questions of the representatives, say the Committee on Selection and Designation or the Committee on Finance, whether members of those committees or other interested representatives? I'm sure he would and would have answered all the questions he knew. Probably all of you would like the same way as I would like to know the candidate's position for the governor on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the monetary union or the entry and timing of Croatia into the euro area whose commitment we made to Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU as well as Protocol 13 on Convergence criteria. What actions, measures, procedures of monetary authority at a time of such a crisis as Croatia is today going to take, and in what direction will monetary policy lead? It's not my position, it's the attitude of a large number of experts in Croatia that Croatia shouldn't rush into the euro zone and that I have to do everything to get into the euro zone later. Since there was no opportunity to ask this candidate, we can rely on information transmitted by the media, whether they are accurate, partly accurate or completely incorrect at the moment. So we're deciding about the governor without being able to answer that question. Secondly, as the candidate for governor thinks of the requirements for increased control and supervision of banks, especially in the part of the way in which interest is calculated and agreed with the famous clause that the interest rate is variable according to the bank's decision, and that decision does not deliver to the debtor who should be an integral part of the contract. The Croatian National Bank, among other things, is authorised to oversee bank operations. So far, under the leadership of the current governor, that right has not been used. Will the new governor be more active at that job? And the third question he would ask him, what is his position on the currency clause, which is both in court and in the assessment of a large number of experts, is one of the reasons for the situation on the financial market and the economic situation in which Croatia is located and the social situation in which more than 120 thousand citizens of this country are present. In such a significant issue as his relationship with the currency clause, unfortunately he could not be asked or held any debate, although there was an opportunity. At all these demands we received and received the answer was not a practice until now. The ruling coalition now asks whose practice of heritage, the eight-year practice of HDZ that has introduced such practice. And that practice that you have rightly been dissatisfied with for eight years, today you have taken over and carried on so jealously that we cannot even discuss it. It is true that both yourself and the state of Croatia in 3 or 6 months you may not be able to change 9 in economic terms, but you have set deadlines for yourself, no one has forced you on deadlines and the truth that the question of honesty has no moment of objection. However, the staffing and the way you conduct your staff moves both in the executive and in the legislative authorities, the way in which you impose personnel solutions before the decision at the plenary session itself is catastrophic. And in the end, I only have one question, did you not fear for a moment that by continuing this kind of practice of staffing and dealing with MPs when it comes to the Croatian National Bank, you are not doing everything to put the country in danger of returning HDZ to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6727	We will also hear the views of the HDSSB club and the respected representative Dinko Buric, and after that we will vote, so I urge the MPs to return to the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDSSB club here, I must also show my dissatisfaction that today when a person is appointed to such an important duty as the Governor of the Croatian National Bank, we do not have the opportunity to see the same person here in the assembly. However, the importance of the Croatian National Bank for the Republic of Croatia does not need to be specifically discussed, but rather the fact that a specific article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks for itself enough. Article 53 is replaced by the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia The Croatian National Bank is defined as the central bank of the Republic of Croatia, but also as an independent and independent bank and as the one that reports its work by the Croatian Parliament which manages and its operations, is managed by the Governor of the Croatian National Bank and whose structure, aim, tasks and competence are governed by a special law. And the Law on the Croatian National Bank has determined that the Croatian National Bank bodies are the advice of the CNB and the Governor of the CNB, as Article 80(1) of the same law provided for by the Governor of the Croatian National Bank appointed the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. All of this is clearly prescribed, but as many times in life, and especially in politics, it's all clear on paper, but in reality it's done quite differently. Today we witness the fact that on the formal side everything is in the spirit of the letter and of the Constitution and of the law, but is that so? First of all, I would like to point out on behalf of the HDSSB club that we are against today's proposal for candidates to elect a new governor of the Croatian National Bank in general do not mind. It is a professional person of enviable career, a man who has worked in the CNB since 1996, and for the past 12 years he has been acting as deputy governor of the Croatian National Bank. It is therefore a person who really seems to be the logical successor of the former governor of the Croatian National Bank. But then what's so controversial about all this? There are several very important things to talk about. The first questionable fact is whether this time really respects the law that defines the governor of the Croatian National Bank to be elected by the Croatian Parliament. Whether a new governor of the Croatian National Bank is elected today by the will of the Croatian Parliament representative or by the will of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and SDP President Zoran Milanovic. A formal decision on the new governor of the Croatian National Bank will be made here today in St. Marka, but in reality the new governor has already been elected more than a month ago in Ibler Square, and more amazingly, that decision has been made public by telephone. The second question that is raised by itself is this. If it is not disputed, and it is not, that the candidate for the new governor of the Croatian National Bank, Dr Boris Vujčić, meets all the necessary professional qualifications for the conduct of this so significant duty, which is with qualifications of the former governor of the Croatian National Bank of Dr Zeljko Rohatinski. What happened during the night, meanwhile, to the governor, who was also named the best governor of Europe and the world four years ago in that year 2008, Prime Minister Milanovic on the phone says that I quote: "Continuation with this Government of the Republic of Croatia is not possible". What are the reasons for the inability to continue this cooperation if it is known that the ruling coalition has not long since come to praise but also praise Governor Rohatinski as the man who saved the Croatian currency, who rightly received congratulations for the uncompromising resistance to the strong political pressures of then Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who in 2007 unsuccessfully pressured Rohatinski to give consent to the taking over of Hyp without the bank. Which is the real reason for the inability to continue cooperation with a person who has been the authority based on the expertise and ethics of the Croatian National Bank as a monetary authority in the last 12 years provided a throne of true, not only formal fourth authorities in the Republic of Croatia. What today's candidate for the governor of the Croatian National Bank, without the Governor-in-Office or what Mr. Rohatinski had, is now no longer a necessary qualification to co-operate with the government of Zoran Milanovic. These questions deserve answers not only in front of representatives of the Croatian Parliament but also in front of the entire Croatian public. The third very important question in front of us is this. In view of the level of the overall economic crisis in which the Republic of Croatia is located, and given the immeasurable importance of the Croatian National Bank and the monetary policy it will implement in the coming period in the overall efforts to get out of this crisis and we representatives, but also the entire Croatian public has the right to know what the candidate for the new governor intends to do in this regard and what kind of policy as governor rather than the deputy governor intends to implement. That is why it is unacceptable for us not to hear from him himself that our decision is based on answers to questions that impose themselves, not only on the basis of what the résumé has already been said. And even at the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs itself, it was not possible and not granted the request of both our club and the club of Croatian Labourists to at least have a conversation or interview with the candidate for such an important duty in the Republic of Croatia. And here's what I'm going to name some of the questions that I'm sure are important and we'd like to ask. For example, the question is whether Mr. Boris Vujčić thinks as governor, not as deputy governor, but as governor continues to uncompromisingly defend the course of the kuna or will allow devaluation. If Croatian citizens are in debt to their throats in loans or in euro, either in francs have reason to fear for failure if there is a devaluation because they will be unable to actually repay those loans. Does the new candidate for governor as governor continue to uncompromisingly defend the autonomy of the Croatian National Bank in relation to the executive power or the new governor will remain the right hand of the prime minister from the right hand of the governor. In the end, a few words about two more things. The Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs at one point asked the question of the accuracy of media information on the friendly proximity of Prime Ministers and Mr Boris Vujcic. From the ranks of representatives of the ruling coalition on the board, it is said that whether or not someone is a personal friend is not and cannot be discussed either on the board or at meetings of the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to the friendship of Zoran Milanovic as a citizen with anyone then, it is really not the subject of a debate in the Croatian Parliament. But when it comes to whether there is a friendly relationship between Mr Zoran Milanovic as the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and any other person who is appointed to any duty in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, and especially such a high and important duty as the Governor of the Croatian National Bank, that is, and should be the subject of debate at the Croatian Parliament. It is precisely to avoid situations that can be characterized as nepotism. Because I will remind myself that nepotism by definition means filling jobs with members of your own family or giving priority to hiring acquaintances or friends. Without prejudice to the criteria of professional or personal capacity for a specific function of Mr Vujčić, in this case, the governor's place is a way of changing the previous and proposing new governor in accordance with the definition of nepotism is irresistibly associated and to this possibility. I'm deliberately telling the shift even though I know that Mr. Zeljko Rohatinski, as well as you, is out of office. But if someone does his job well but is not subject to political pressure, further cooperation with such a person in the new mandate is nothing more than a shift. The people say it's not a neck, it's a neck. As a result of all the above, the HDSSB reiterates its undisputed qualifications to the candidate for the new governor of the Croatian National Bank, but opposes the way the previous governor was also cancelled, and the way the new one will be appointed governor for the post proposed as well as the absence of the presentation of his programme of the HDSB's team will be restrained. We hope that the monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia will continue to be established in the square of Croatian giants number three at meetings of the Council of the Croatian National Bank, not at Iblero's square at meetings of the Presidency or the General Committee of the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6729	I thank and conclude the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 89 votes for and 9 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of the governor of the Croatian National Bank and the termination of the term of office of the governor of the Croatian National Bank in the text proposed by the applicant. Congratulations to the new governor, Dr. Sc. Boris Vujčić and I thank you for your work so far, so far, Governor Dr. Sc. It's Rohatinski's turtle. I'm interrupting the session now. We will continue the plenary session on Monday 9 July at 14:00 with agenda item Final proposal for a Decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I wish everyone a good weekend. We move to - Selection, appointments and resolutions So we will first declare on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of deputy governors and vice governors of the Croatian National Bank and the termination of the mandate of the Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank. Does the governor of the CNB, Mr. Boris Vujcic, want to give an explanation? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6731	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. It's an honor to be here, and the first thing I'd like to thank you for the trust you showed me last Friday. I'd just like to say a few words about the people who were proposed to be Deputy Governor and Vice Governor of the CNB. You've received suggestions for Mr. Relja Martic, Deputy Governor. Mr. Relja Martic has been employed by the CNB since '78, his entire professional career was spent in the CNB at various jobs from the Analysis Directorate where he was an analyst, after which he was director of the Directorate until 1992 when he was appointed vice governor of the CNB. From then on, he is in the affairs of coordinating the Research and Statistics Sector and conducting monetary operations, i.e. central banking operations conducted by monetary policy and international reserve management. So since '78 at the CNB in all positions, he's now proposed to be deputy governor. Tomislav Cross, proposal for a vice governor. He began his career at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb as an intern and then an assistant. He moved to the CNB in 1994 and since then has also done different jobs in the CNB, from the Research Directorate where he was advisor to director, until he was after '99. Head of the Office of the Governors of the CNB and, from 2000 to today, Vice-Governors with the responsibility of the Business Support Sector, the Information Technology, Planning, Control and Accounting Sector. Two new names for the vice governors, Damir Odak, born in '64. In the year, he also began his career at the Economic Institute as a researcher, scientific adviser and since 1989 in banking he has been doing the jobs of the President of the Trade Bank's Board since '90-97, then the Commercial Bank sold Erste to the group since '97. By 2003 he was the director of the Business Banking Sector of the Zagreb Bank and then from 2000-2003 a member of the Board of the Zagreb Bank, so that the last job he had done would be the president of the OTP Bank Management from 2003 to 2011 when he left the OTP Bank and Banking. So, a man with very great experience in banking. His work should also be a super vision, i.e. supervision of the banking system in the division of business in the Croatian National Bank. Finally another vice governor is proposed by Mr. Vedran Sosic, who was born in 1974 and has also worked in the Croatian National Bank for various jobs since the beginning of his professional career. He has worked on affairs in the Research Directorate as well as an intern, after a consultant and since 2008 he has been the director of the Financial Stability Directorate and editor of our financial stability in the Croatian National Bank. He published a lot. I assume you have also received a list of his works and his responsibilities in the Croatian National Bank should be the coordination of jobs in the Research Sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6732	I thank the governor. I'm opening a debate. There are no interested parties, so I am finalising the debate and I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Someone abstentioned maybe? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 129 votes in favour and 1 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of deputy governors and vice governors of the Croatian National Bank and the termination of the deputy governor of the Croatian National Bank. And now I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of Mr. Shim Luchin to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 13th session held on 12th of this month, the Board for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament adopted and established the following decisions. The first is the proposal for a decision on the appointment and termination of the mandate of external members of the Council of the Croatian National Bank. Therefore, for members, the following are appointed as members of the Croatian National Bank Council on 17 July 2012: Prof. Dr. Boris Cota, Prof. Dr. Vlado Leko, Dr. Branimir Lokin, Dr. Željko Lovrinčević, Prof. Silvier Orsag, Professor Dr. Jure Simovic, Dr. Sandra Švaljeg and Prof. Dr. Young Vedresh. You got your résumé's explanation on the bench, there's no need to convince them or read them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6734	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? I find that by a majority of the votes of 130 votes in favour and 1 abstention, we have made a decision. Here's the chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6735	The following is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament, Franjo Lucić, is hereby dismissed. Franjo Lucic is elected vice-president of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6736	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? I find it unanimous with 130 votes for the decision-making process. Here you go, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6737	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament Jasen Mesic is hereby dismissed. A member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is elected Academy member Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6738	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? I find that a unanimous, 129-seat decision has been made. Here you go, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6739	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the State Commission for the assessment of damages from natural disasters. In the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from natural disasters are named: for President Damir Rimac, for members: Željko Šemper, mr. Danes Soja, Jovo Vuković, Vladimir Bilek, Mr. Petar Chobankovic, Branko Kuti, Mr. Jasmin Deanovic, pardon Jasminka Deanovic, Miljenko Rakic, Bozica Markovic and Tomislav Bigac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6740	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? I find that, unanimously with 128 votes, a decision has been made. Let us listen to the explanation and the proposal for the next decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6741	Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Board of the Compensation Fund. For members of the Supervisory Board of the Post-exempted Assets Fund, the Office of Reputable Legal Expertsplatmir Buterin and Boris Ravic are appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6742	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? A decision was reached unanimously with 127 votes. Stock supplies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6743	For the members of the Committee on Stocks, they are selected from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament Ivica Mandić, Igor Radjenović, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. From the ranks of prominent experts in the area of the economy, Dr. Boris Antunović and Dr. Mijo Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6744	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? I find it unanimous with 127 votes for a decision. And finally the Island Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6745	The proposal for a decision on the election of 3 members of the island council from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament is Tonka Ivčević, Mladen Marelić and Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6746	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Together with 127 votes, we also elected three members of the Island Council. We move to the last point, that is - Proposal for a Decision appointing the acting director of HRT. The proposed decision was submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media pursuant to Article 22(3). Law amending and supplementing the HRT Act. You received the motion for a decision at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? The promoter wants to, and Mr. Shuker after the proposer. Welcome on behalf of the promoter Branko Vukšić, president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. After that, we will open a discussion and everyone has the right to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6748	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Culture. The Committee on Information, Information and Media at the session held on 11 July at the 8th session adopted a Decision on the proposal of Mr Domagoj Novokmet as acting director of HRT. Just to remind you, all the board members had the right to propose. There was only one proposal for Mr. Domagoj Novokmet who, and this proposal was given by distinguished parliamentary representative Josip Kregar and a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Domagoj Novokmet is a young man, 35 years old. 18 years in journalism, child of HRT. By profession, he's an economist, which is just as important. For more than 10 years, he has been in editorial affairs, creatively, well knows the organization of HRT, and I also stressed at the meeting of the Media Committee ideologically unburdened and the Committee unanimously decided to propose to Parliament the appointment of Domagoj Novokmet as acting Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6749	I'm opening a debate. That no one signed up for applications, but here's the esteemed Ivan Schuker asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6750	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 223a, please pause on behalf of the HDZ Club for 10 minutes to agree on a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6751	Okay. The HDZ Club is looking for a break. Here you go, Mr. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6752	Also on behalf of the HDSSB club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6753	Here you go. And the HNS club is looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6754	SDP club break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6755	And the SDP club. And Mr. Pupovci?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6756	Yes, too, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6757	Here we have recorded everyone who asked for a break. Ten-minute stop. And the laborers are looking for a break. The time has passed for a break, I ask the MPs to take their seats, continue our work. Stanku was first sought by a HDZ representative club, a respected representative, Jasen Mesic, on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6759	I'd like to beg you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6760	Please, I ask the representatives to take their seats and ensure peace, so that representative Jasen Mesic can explain the positions of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ representative's club did not take this break to discuss individual names, but two important principles. The principle of political consensus that we had in this House by passing the past law. And on the principle of legality, on the principle of legality because we claim that neither the current law is respected nor respected before, that there is no realisation of the programme contract, of the principle of political consensus because all of our efforts to make decisions either by consensus or by two-thirds majority failed. Because on the Media Committee, although the newspapers have already published this, who will be the new VD director of Croatian Radio Television, the newspaper has published this 2 days earlier. In such an environment, the work on the board had no meaning and no proposals could make sense, because there was no two-thirds decision. Therefore, any proposal to come by the opposition would not be respected. What we're trying to say is, if you're not ready for a political consensus, if you think so, as the Prime Minister said, you're not interested in the program, but in managing and managing the system. Although we have not heard from the new proposed candidates, nor about financial consolidation, nor about calming the passions of Croatian broadcasting, nor about agreeing to a contract with the Government, which was a legal obligation up to 1.7, but we have only heard about new staff cleanings. Is that the care of the system's functioning? But if you don't already care about the political consensus, if you don't already care about the opinion and diplomats in Zagreb and the European Commission, who warned that the will of the majority can be chosen by anyone, then at least be consistent with the legality. If the law stipulates that the Director-General must have 10 years of experience, then it is both fair and moral, and in accordance with the legal logic that the performer must fulfil those conditions. If the law says that editors-in-chief will be elected through the tender, with the previous opinion of journalists and creative staff, then it is both moral and fair, and it is fair to be elected and editors to propose, i.e. to appoint VD directors-in-chiefs. It is the only way that in any way the Croatian public, Croatian citizens who pay the subscription can believe that it is not the intensity of all these amendments and the addition of the law that we have warned about, which is that the ruling coalition has total political control over television. In this way, it will certainly not deepen the confidence of Croatian society in each other, thus continuing to violate the law, so here we can see that in the means of public communication, but now political clans within the ruling coalition are competing whose candidate will come for which editor-in-chief. About the consolidation of the situation on HTV on Croatian radio television, not a word, about the programme contract or a word. Was that the declared concern for the system you announced when you changed the law, when you voted most of the votes, whether it was the moment you disobeyed the opinion of the European Commission, saying that it is not mandatory, is not mandatory. Is this the way forward when things are really important for the entire political spectrum in the Republic of Croatia we will make decisions. We invite you to this occasion because of this, and because the HDZ Club has requested interpretation from the Committee on Law, articles relating to the election and VD of the Director-General and Director-General, and of course the appointment of editor-in-chiefs and other editors on Croatian Radio. To postpone this vote. We're not talking about any name, we're only talking about the principle, the principle of political consensus we had, even when HDZ was in power. And secondly on the principle of legality, a law whose amendments and additions you've voted for most of the votes that you disrespect and violate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6762	Thank you, too. In the name of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6763	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is known that we of the HDSSB Club during the debate on the new HRT Act were against him, for a number of reasons, I will not repeat it now. However, he is who he is. And as for the appointment of VD chief director of Croatian television, you know we don't see anything here now that the law has already been passed, something particularly controversial. HDZ has been setting up obedient party personnel, the SDP is now doing the same. And as far as we're concerned at the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, nothing is going to change. On that side and for these reasons, in the case of such a proposal to appoint a VD director, we will be restrained. But we're warning, we're pointing to ruling members of the ruling coalition, you're all the things that HDZ did, and that's why he lost the election, and now you're doing it. And believe me, there are great odds, it is certain that you will then pass as they do and there are great chances that it may be in a worse way than it was... You haven't learned anything from the mistakes they've been making for the past eight years. If that is the case with this Law on HRT, which is much more controversial, it is essentially a dispute rather than today's appointment. It has to work TV she has to work we've passed the law. Someone's got to be the headmaster. You didn't expect the HDZ Club to propose now either. Well, of course it belongs when we've already passed such a law and the motion of the ruling majority will pass, but you know you have no right to make such a fuss about it, too. Do not let your role model be a way of ruling the HDZ, and you are doing everything you can to make it so that, in the end, the citizens of Croatia suffer. I'm sorry that even before today's debate and when this Law on Medical Insemination was, you didn't listen to reasoned, well-intentioned reasons that I'm convinced that a good part of you, not all of you, but a good part of you understood them because we tried to bring them out in a way that everyone understands is essentially agreeing with them. Don't always make it a party discipline that goes against common sense. We're something like this here, and I'm not going to turn off the subject. We had a lot about this HRT Act. It is accepted by the will of the majority and contrary to the recommendations and opinions that came from the European Commission to bring what it is and now HRT will have to function there is nothing controversial. I only hope that what we have shown as a concern in our debates will not happen, that indeed by ruling in this way they try to put under their control this so important public media HRT, believe me, and with all their attempts HDZ has failed. If he had, he wouldn't have lost the election so easily. Let that be a lesson to you. Here's hoping the person who's been proposed meets all the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6764	Dear Jasen Mesic wants to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations when the esteemed representative Buric said HDZ could have set up whoever he wanted. According to the 2010 law, according to a two-thirds choice with the ratios in the programme board and the supervisory board, there had to be a consensus practically consensus, and for that man the presidents of other political options had to vote. So HDZ couldn't set up whoever he wanted, and that's the incorrect quote I'm correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6766	The HNS club's position will be presented by the esteemed Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6767	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So how before the solutions were and what was the law we see from how the HRT worked over the past years. So no program clarity, no business chaos. If that's the model that you think we should continue, then there's nothing more to say about it. The law that has been passed is fully in line with the highest democratic standards, there are, of course, various opinions of the various officials present here as the views of the European Commission, but this law is fully at the level of Europe's democratic standards of public television. Therefore, this objection is completely out of the question. There is no unique solution to what public television law should look like. Croatian law, which will allow for clearer functioning and clearer responsibilities in the conduct of this very important institution, is therefore fully in line with all the opinions of the European Commission, and, of course, if you are going to look for officials who will say something that they think should be and that is not based on solutions that exist in Europe or is not the standard then it is, of course, a lengthy intention. As far as the consensus is concerned, it's always a consensus when it's meant to be created by someone else. The consensus is a long way, and by your actions and behaviour and by the leadership of the state and by the conduct of this Parliament you have not shown that you are ready for this step, you do not have the right to call on this parliamentary majority to make it a political consensus. She'll do it when she decides it's necessary. As regards the programme contract that is being discussed here, this is also a problem, so this programme contract cannot be done on the basis of the earlier bad law and disorder that exists on HRT, but under new conditions that will create a new law and new management of HRT. As regards the legality of this proposal, I do not enter into the proposals of the HDZ Club on the legality or assessment of the legality or constitutionality of the Law on HRT, but in the light of the legality of this act, and this was the case here, the HNS Representatives' Club proposes that the Legislative Committee base its powers and powers in order to make matters clear, in this process of forming public television on democratic principles, to enter into the right way for the Committee on Law to truly assess the legality of this act on the appointment of the WD of the Director-General of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6768	And in this debate, the respected Jasen Mesic found something incorrect to correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6769	... I just wanted to say that that's what I said that we also submitted to the Legislative Committee that we were looking for an interpretation of these articles relating to the election. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Mr. Radoš said the wrong quote several times, and I'll just say that it's beautifully written and incorrectly said Mr. Radosh when he said that this law was better than what it was. That's not true. And it is not true that we did not know how to show in the work of this Parliament a consensus, and in the last year, six proposals from the Ministry of Culture have been adopted unanimously. Therefore, this claim is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6770	And the esteemed Branko Vuksic wants to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6771	Dear Representative Rados said one incorrect finding that this law recently passed at the level of democratic standards in Europe. That's not true. This law is not at the level of Europe's standards, especially at the level of media freedoms, because in Europe there is an unknown interference of the management function with the editorial function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6772	And the third correction of an incorrect quote. Dear Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that an official in Brussels gave her own opinion, she spoke or wrote on behalf of the European Commission what was the intention of those who asked for the opinion of the Commission. So we did not ask for that opinion, it was asked by the Minister, the Government, you have to ask them why they asked for it, and why you say it is respected when it is not true, but obviously there are not a few months but in the European Parliament were not enough to know how institutions operate in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6774	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club exposure. In the name of the SDP club, the distinguished Josip Kregar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6775	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. This is about principles, said Mr. Mesic, but actually here is the item of the agenda to choose the performer's duties. So we're talking about a name, and we need to take care of it. Any debate on the name covered by the principle is actually focused on the fact that the authority and responsibility of the person elected as acting. Secondly, here it is to be pointed out, Mr Buric and I agree, he gave a very serious note and took the stand of support, abstention in this regard of making sure that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past. One of the greatest signs to be made by this candidate, or by the choice of acting officials, is that the new ruling coalition, the majority coalition, will not repeat such mistakes because it is now necessary to say about the candidate. The candidate, as Mr Vuksic said, is a candidate who has a reputation in the house he comes to as acting. It's not an institution, I don't mean a factory, an institution that can stand the interruption of the continuity of work. It is a person who knows the technology of work and meets all qualifications necessary for the performer of duties. Moreover, it also satisfies those qualifications which are beyond that and concern the appointment of directors, but there is also a different procedure. And now something about the procedure. The procedure provides that the candidate for the acting officer shall propose a committee that is responsible for the media, information, that was said here. We have carried out this procedure in accordance with the law and Article 22 of that Law. The committee therefore had to propose defence of the principle, but the MPs, representatives of the HDZ, left before the proceedings and the debate took place. I am extremely sorry that their absence may not have led to some other candidates we would have discussed and chosen best, but it is not good to replace that committee in charge with this moment at which the Parliament is voting on the candidate. It's not a good procedure actually to bend it that way. It is even less desirable and acceptable that something that is a legal solution be discussed and decided again. Excuse me, the responsibility of the Legislative Committee is not to assess the constitutionality of a law. If that is the case, there are competent institutions. We passed the law, please use these means. I must say a few more words not only in defence of the procedure that has been carried out but also in order to protect what is actually necessary measures to be taken in order to fix the situation on HRT. These are not measures to replace people and I do not want to follow what is written in the media, in the means of public communication every day. So they write other things, they create scandals where they're not there. But please, please, this is where we choose the acting officer and we choose him at the moment when the Parliament goes on vacation. The postponement of that decision would mean that we are actually delaying the necessary, necessary, useful measures that the performer would have to take. For all of the above reasons, and without delay, it is necessary to continue to approach the vote and choose, to establish the performer of HRT's duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6776	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6777	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6778	We've reported several corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct several incorrect allegations of an esteemed Professor Craiger. First of all, our attitude today has nothing to do with reducing someone's authority. Otherwise, someone has the highest authority when elected by a political consensus or a 2/3 majority, then his authority would be much stronger. It's the first correction. As far as the committee's debate was concerned, it was clear to everyone that the Committee's materials were not divided, that there was no point in proposing any other names, and I say once again, we did not ask for a request to show the constitutionality but only a credible interpretation of Article 22. So maybe it's a misunderstanding. I'm correcting that quote one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6780	The correcting of the incorrect allegations was also reported by the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6781	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Kregar incorrectly stated that the proposed candidate for the director-in-chief's office met all the conditions for the performers and even a team of more and more conditions for the appointment of directors. So, if the interpretation of the net-voted law as Mr. Kregar says, then the conditions for the appointment of the performer have no duties, so anyone without any school can, any experience be appointed as acting. If the interpretation of the law is as it should be, and that the performer fulfils at least the conditions prescribed for the appointment of a director, then it is incorrect because the proposed candidate does not have sufficient experience per year required, which means 10 years of experience in the management of business systems. If even one show were considered a business system, which is a Good Morning show, Croatia would only be 8 years old. But the right management of the business system could count on the experience since 2010 and that's the editor of the Brain Emissions Directorate. That is why the appointment through a public tender requires interpretation. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much, Mrs. Lovrin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6782	Mrs. Lovrin, if we can stick to Rules of Procedure and Time, it'll be simpler for everyone. The final correction of the incorrect quote by Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues have already corrected a series of incorrect allegations. What you said to your colleague Craig that we left because we didn't want to propose to anyone is absolutely incorrect. We left the board because neither did we when the board session began to receive materials for that agenda. We have the right to protest, because at least it's unusual, but it just can't happen that we're discussing a point that we don't have materials for at all. And we went because we consider it precisely because of these reasons that colleague Lovrin stated that we should, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, respect Croatian laws, and we believe that here we ignore the legality of work and ignore the prescribed 10 years that a person, regardless of what it is called, should have when he comes to the head, as well as V.D. Such a system that we absolutely all think is necessary to introduce order and introduce new standards and controls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6784	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6785	Honored Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with my colleague, Kregar, who believes that if the parent committee on this matter has taken a stand after the debates have been held and there are no additional particular reasons why we should go to dispute the position that the parent committee has expressed that this is not good for our parliamentaryism. If the matter after the parent board has decided to return to the political debate, then we are actually mined ourselves, and we know very well that our very weak points are parent committees, or committees in general. So we need to strengthen them, and we don't want to strengthen them if we're actually going to question what the parent committees discussed here. Another thing I'd like to say about the subject, although I'm reluctant to return to the topic itself. Well, there's one reason why I don't think there's a need to put things off about today's decision to elect the Chief Director of Croatian Radio and Television, no matter what we may not agree on. The reason is that the situation on Croatian radio is as much as I follow as I am a representative in this House and as a member of a committee where it has been discussed in two terms so that it leads to the self-destruction of this public media. The financial situation and the programming situation have long been out of line with the acts that we as founders are obliged to monitor. The way in which Croatian broadcasting operates, the way in which some people operate on Croatian broadcasting, in some other cases, are the subject of competent state authorities and state institutions that effectively resolve it in the generally known name of the fight against corruption or conflict of interest. And the second question is the quality of the programme and the ability of the public media to deal with and preserve itself with other competing media. It's not our place to get away with it, and because of that, regardless of what we've been thinking about at the SDSS Club, that maybe some solutions would be better than they've been offered, we feel that the current situation requires us to adopt this decision. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Those who call for consent I will always be with them and will always support such a thing, which is done before the plenary debate comes. That's what authorised club representatives do. I have no knowledge of any conversation in this regard. And the second question, another thing that motivates me and my club to vote for this proposal. We have not heard colleagues and colleagues hear voices against such a solution from the press circles either with 60 or 70% of journalists and employees. As was the case with some who were appointed to very high positions within the Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, as representatives of the news station made it clear that they did not agree with such decisions but it is political will, and I will not call it a party but a political will that was dominant decided to go deaf to it. This proposal by colleagues and colleagues as far as we know is not in conflict with the views of employees, journalists on Croatian Radio and TV. And it's enough for us at the SDSS Club to handle it and say that we will support this proposal and expect that within the envisaged legal deadline they create assumptions that we can choose the director, not that we have the condition we had, which is to be v.d. Director withdraws several mandates in status v.d. Director until he finally became director and we made it possible in the past term not for the sake of HRT but for the well-being of certain groups that considered it better. We need to end this situation with all due respect for the positions we've heard here. So, I'll always be for that consenting I don't think we have enough. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] But I think it should be done in time and in the way that it is common in parliamentary practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6786	We will hear the views of the Labour Club – the parties of work and the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6787	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatian Labourists do not really care what foreign diplomats in Croatia think about the decision on the Croatian Parliament, about the director, v.d. Director of Croatian Television, Croatian Radio and Television, as well as other topics, and I don't care what they think about it. But I remind you that our proposal for a law that was in such a procedure and before the beginning of this session is not included on the agenda because of the Rules of Procedure which the Croatian Democratic Community has left in the legacy of a ruling coalition which now does not want to change it either. Today, changes to the Rules of Procedure in that part of the Rules of Procedure have been adopted. This is their ability to work. You left them an inheritance after eight years. Most of them decided when the law was passed and they said we're taking responsibility. They didn't say if they were taking the consequences. However, emergency intervention at HRT has been necessary since the start of the parliament's mandate. That was also one of the reasons why we proposed our bill. If someone forgot an emergency intervention at HRT is needed against those against whom HRT journalists protested, they demonstrated with patches on their mouth, warning this HRT State Council. And that furniture from HRT has to leave, and this temporary solution of introducing an emergency manager in three months is one way. The solution theoretically every member of the board could have made his proposal. I don't know how many boards there are, 13 members, I guess. There could have been 13 candidates, there was only one. He didn't give his colleague Craig on behalf of that candidate, so we wouldn't fool ourselves. It's not a proposal from a colleague of the Craigs, a proposal has been made. What matters to us is that the journalistic profession inside the house has accepted the proposal as a temporary solution and that is good. However, such discussions and frequent changes to the law, often changing the management's furniture, staffing by party principles, straining with HRT, and in order to defend the public service, you know what we've done? The citizens of this country are no longer interested in any of this. They'd only want one thing now, cancel the subscription. We have led to such a situation that citizens perceive that the only problem of public service is that unfortunate subscription. And that's why I want to believe that in these three months, we are closing this story and we are not opening it in this term because we are also going to do public service, so to public television and public radio, and we are doing more damage than good to ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-20-0.u6788	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The decision on whether or not a candidate fulfils the requirements does not fall within the legislator's section of the Legislative Committee. The HRT Act does not specify any conditions for the acting director of HRT. We have a legitimate proposal for a competent parliamentary holiday. The conditions for decision have been met. I'm asking who's in favour of the motion for a decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I declare that the majority of votes, 88 votes in favour, 23 against and 6 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of the HRT Director-General's office in the text as proposed by the applicant. My colleagues and colleagues, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Croatian Parliament. I wish you all a good rest and I'll see you in September. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will continue to work at the 4th session. It is next - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 60 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister Maras, would you like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
