ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6960	Good morning, colleagues and fellow MPs. Can we get started? Let us take the agenda. It is on the agenda - Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011, with an updated report from 1 May 2011 to 31 December 2011. The report was submitted by the Administrative Council of HINA in accordance with Article 14. The HINA Act. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received reports at a bench session here. If the motionary wants an extra one... and he's gone. Then nothing. So we can find out he doesn't want to. It was a representative of Mr. Damir Boras, President of the Governing Council. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Here you are, the Committee for Information, Information and Media, respected representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6961	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Information, Information and Media discussed the annual report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA at its 2nd session held on 19 April 2012. At the time of the debate, the Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the report in question. In his opening statement, the President of the Governing Council of HINA pointed out that the report was complemented at the request of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and refers to the work of two convocations of the Governing Council. The previous administrative board adopted the HINA Strategic Development Plan for the period 2011-2014, developed an analysis of the business performance of information services and construction units of HINA as a basis for a decision to re-establish and confirm the HINA re-establishment programme proposed by the administration. The Council in the present composition discussed the Work Programme and the financial framework of HINA's activities, adopted the HINA Restructure Programme, the Proposal for a Regulation establishing and the proposal for a financial plan for the period of January-March 2012 and adopted the HINA Work Plan for 2012. The president of the council stressed that the council worked in incomplete composition because the Croatian Parliament appointed 4 out of 5 members and so far no member of the board of directors has been appointed. In a committee debate, HINA has been told to deal with losses for three years. The Committee members agreed with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Administrative Council did not take the necessary steps to enable the reorganisation and re-organisation of HINA, rationalisation of business and halted a negative trend in the overall business, in business results and requested the responsibility of those who led to such a situation. It was also said that HINA only in the future needs to determine what it wants to be and should try to create a market project. However, it is felt that there are some circumstances that could not be affected, such as unpaid claims, the Vjesnik debt according to HINA, VAT which HINA pays 25% while other media are paying 10%. The HINA Act, which has not changed for more than a decade, has been proposed to hold a thematic session in HINA. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusions: "1. The annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011, with an update of the report from 1 May 2011 to 31 December 2011, is not accepted. 2. The Administrative Council of HINA undertakes to discharge the Director of HINA and appoints the Director's office."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6962	Thank you very much to the board president. Let's just wait a minute to make a record. We don't have a government representative. I'm opening a debate. We're going to discuss clubs. The first one was registered for discussion by the Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada club, the respected representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6963	Even when the government gives an opinion on the work of the HINA Governing Council, the Reporting News Agency, it states in its position formal, not essential reasons, this time of negative attitude. In short and clear, the Administrative Council of HINA did not act in accordance with the powers and did not allow for the reconstruction of and once very important institutions. It would be good if it were such a simple problem. HINA needs not only reorganisation and reconstruction and financial consolidation, HINA needs a general. Since the recently literally reporting agency, which without the competition of new Internet media, has had a far easier task of informing the public, HINA must become whether it wants to survive a modern, fast, diverse and more layered medium. For the news agencies as they existed in the early '90s or before society, and then the state has no need, for several reasons. The first is that there have been many faster, more intriguing, more pervasive and more measuring media that are faster for many journalists and citizens of institutions, sometimes a more thorough source of information. The second is that HINA was held mostly in journalistic or rather, I would say to the agency forms that belong to the past and not the one that is very journalisticly bright. When HINA published an intriguing and relevant interview with the relevant public person from politics, sports, science, economy or culture, an interview that would be quoted, an interview that would be broadcast by portals, newspapers, radio or television. When HINA first published some of the burning topics of life, when it revealed one of the most significant affairs in Croatia, when and how many times in these five years. The third problem or reason HINA is in a longer, deeper and more difficult to solve today comes from the first two. Less need for HINA also creates financial problems, monetary dues. There are less and less interested in subscribing to HINA's services, but not just because the crisis is not only because there are countless fast-responsive portals, not only because the world has long become a global village that is based on information, but rather because HINA's time helmet service. Because HINA's service is outdated, not fast enough and penetrating. Of course, speed, penetratingness, thoroughness, and intrigue should not be associated with sensationalism. In order to buy information from someone, to even visit a portal, someone on this portal would be advertised in the first place, thus allowing the media to function, the media must answer many questions of all the more curious audiences. HINA has not been using the advantage it has already enjoyed with its own status, or position in society and state in recent years. HINAs are if the editorship is a skillful and penetrating information from any other service or portal. HINA should, since it is the very position of the source of information of importance for society, i.e. the public, to be preceded by the media scene and by the amount of relevant information and the amount of life topics and the presentation of the most interesting public figures from all political, economic, scientific and artistic areas. HINA is primarily in a conceptal, editorial crisis, and only then in a financial crisis that I repeat is the consequence of this first content crisis. The report states that the requirements of most users of HINA services have changed and users want to download and pay only the information content and formats they need. Well, that makes sense. And has HINA figured out what the content that users want to download? No, if she had, she wouldn't be in such a deep-seated concept and then a financial crisis. The report also lists the objectives of the reconstruction that suggest that this HINA leadership lacks an idea. The goals are general, formalist. They sound like the floscules behind which there's a big questionnaire. Which means that business needs to be rationalised and quality of production achieved. Well, that's what they say at the shoe factory. What's for HINA rationalization, what's for HINA quality? That's not what the report says, but it says that we need to expand the market. It is written in all documents for the reconstruction of the steel, wine, potatoes, olive oil and tourist services. HINA is more specific than all of them, but there are no specific solutions in the report or at least a hint of how to rationalise business, how to achieve the quality of production, because the news is, of course, a product of goods and how to spread the market. The reconstruction has not been clarified, but that's why it's explained how to get more public money. If the report spent as much effort and creativity as was spent on complaining about the lack of money, stealing information, and stealing claims from the council and parties, and too much value added tax, the future of HINA would be less uncertain. I fully agree that HINA should be placed in a level playing field with other media and reduced VAT from 25 to 10%. It is unquestionable that the state should be served in HINA, not some other equally good or equally bad services for significantly even triple the amount of money. For the crisis that is rocking HINA where the creative part, therefore, journalists, all the forces are fighting this administration, is also the fault of the state, which, as in the case of HRT, raised its hands from the problem in public media. Instead of creating frameworks for the good functioning of services that should be at the service of Croatian citizens, the Croatian authorities only cared about their 5 minutes of fame and about the size of their picture in newspapers or the length of contributions to TV and radio shows. Yes, the government and this legislative one should be involved in the public media as much as it is necessary to create frameworks for professional independent action without the influence of political and all other powers. HINA is without a doubt needed both the public scene and the public and the society and the state, but different, more modern, more pervasive and meaningful HINA whose content users will not be able to bypass. One of HINA's great treasures is also the archives. And the once-in-a-lifetime archive of the Vesnik who chats without being able to use the public with it. The digitalization of the archives came under the pretext that there was no money, and the money was, listen a little bit about how the money was being thrown away by the HDZ powers, the money was being thrown away. So HINA meant less to the authorities than a good time on a little vitre, than spending time in Verona or in America. HINA has also been a place for embezzling similar people who are already in advance shouting that they will be replaced by politically unprofessional criteria. It seems that it will go just as they did with listening to the towers that are almost always on track the same practice might continue, and that would be the end for HINA which, I stress, is needed. But HINA, which is in tune with the times and needs of the public and subscribers. HINAs need personnel that are able to modernize it, intrinsically intrinsically energize it and make it desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6964	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Next word came from Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6965	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There are two documents before us, i.e. two reports by the Administrative Council of HINA, covering the time from 1 May 2010 until the end of 2011. These are documents that do not differ greatly from reports that we have received from the Administrative Council of HINA in recent years. It can't even differ because it doesn't differ in the state of HINA, and it's been really bad for four years, I'd say in many segments and worse. The HNS Club and we HNS representatives all these 4 years, which at the meetings of the Information Committee, which at plenary sessions in the discussions on reports coming from HINA we pointed out that the negative trends in the functioning and operation of HINA are something that should be stopped and there is still a chance. We've made numerous and very sharp criticisms. We addressed the responsibility primarily to the management structure, to the director of HINA. But it wasn't just mere criticism. In our discussions and attitudes of the HNS club, we also tried to make proposals, to point to the weak points of the management model but also to the weak results of such management. We did not respond to the proactive policy of HINA's management mechanism, primarily of directors and administrations, but mostly corresponded with defence, submission of documents, reports, balance sheets that should have been seen to be actually in HINA's state of affairs excellent but there are some in HINA itself and beyond that state deliberately depicting it as bad. We can still pretend that HINA is a system that works and can survive in this way that it works today, but it's a big, colorful lie. Because the financial indicator, the financial reports show that HINA eats its substance. It does not formally deal with the loss because losses from regular annual business have been covered for several years in a row from the reserve HINA had and still has but show a trend that leads practically to the destruction of the agency. And not only that, HINA in the past few years, and then in this period that we have been dealing with these reports that have failed to solve a whole series of extremely important problems that she has faced or that have been the result of exactly this kind of HINA leadership, and they are not negligible problems but they are neither the problems that were impossible to solve, and that is the problem. Therefore, HINA has been ruled by corrupt human relations for several years, to the extent that the directorship is on the one hand, and key people of the system dealing with production are therefore in constant conflict. Under these circumstances, you can't do well. But it wasn't about personal animosities. It was primarily about the conceptual differences between those considered information producers, so top professionals working in HINA and the very administration that you study whether these two reports are actually a supporter of a very conservative model that no longer works anywhere but literally does not work when it comes to national information agencies. A colleague Vuksic mentioned only one detail when we talk about it, which is the fact that HINA is completely incompetent on the market and that we have never heard anyone quote HINA's interviews with key actors of our social, political, sports, cultural life but we have experienced HINA quoting the interviews of our state officials who gave... Can HINA be allowed to be just a transmission of information that actually comes from Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is amazing that all social relevant affairs in which Croatia is on the one hand a political elite, and on the other hand its underground where they were foretold for corruption, for nepotism, for organised crime. It is almost amazing that a professional information service like HINA is in its capacity, the abilities of the people it has, according to the technology it has, that all the affairs have passed without any exclusive information that HINA would have placed. The counter argument of HINA leadership is that HINA is not a tabloid medium. Well, of course it can't be, but it's not about tabling the news agency, it's about it becoming a relevant source of information, but it's also about to become an actor in the public information process in what's the most important role of HINA, and that's why public service in public information will be proactive, research and in the right place and at the right time. Can the agency even be called the National News Agency if the key information it is taking from the portal in a way that was published 10 or 20 hours ago? The fact that the number of subscribers on HINA's service is decreasing speaks for itself. So HINA's information her products are no longer competitive on the market. HINA's information is not relevant for public awareness, public information. Who's to blame? It's certainly not net outside HINA. It's the product of a certain orientation of the editorial concept above all. Furthermore, this inexclusivity and weak citation has led HINA's people who work in HINA to feel powerless because they are not allowed to work on such topics. The technological side of this story is also quite conservative. HINA has not responded to the challenge of time and has become in a position or those who lead it in a position that in 2012 it is probably a key year in which the question will be answered whether or not to be, survive or fail, because HINA will not be able to function like this anymore. Obviously, there is a need to make radical changes to restructuring, programming positioning, different concepts, opening space to creators, stepping into new forms, proactive editorial policy, step forward, not behind events and so on. The fact is also that HINA's leadership failed to build and maintain communication with its own founder. And it's been going on for years. And the past government has practically frozen communication with HINA's leadership. She obviously had no confidence in either what she was doing or what the results of such a business system should be. That's bad. This reflected, among other things, the number of public sector subscribers. It is obvious that neither the government nor the para-government services, the public sector sees HINA as a relevant source of information on which they would bring or expand their policies. The fact is also that these reports as hard as they try to do with a bit of grotesque elements, the data here on the number of news, about the type of news. The fact is that these are the two reports that testify to the inability of the existing HINA leadership to respond to the challenges of time, i.e. the challenges of one situation that the government in Croatia, which by society is bad because it is an atmosphere of corruption, a violation of the authority of all institutions, a threat to the authority of political institutions, a loss of trust in public service. So what's bad for society for the media is a space where they affirm their ability to transmit news and information to the public. HINA was the last one on the tail of the event. In this respect, the HNS Club supports the government's opinion, also supports the views of the Committee on Information, Information and Media that this report is not good and that it should not be accepted, and in particular the proposal for a conclusion sent to the Croatian Parliament to be ordered by the founders to the Governing Council of HINA, and the Croatian Parliament to dismiss the Director of HINA and to appoint the acting director immediately. In this respect, the HNS club will support such a proposal and vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6966	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6967	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Whether Croatia needs HINA and if it needs to be HINA. That question should come up because things with HINA aren't going well for many years. The former government dared to say that HINA did not take care of it. For years here in Parliament, we took note of reports on HINA's work on the parliamentary majority's proposal and the parliamentary majority's will, and for years it was seen that HINA was sinking deeper and deeper and deeper. We warned from this pay phone that it was necessary to amend the laws, to help HINA, not to be left to its own fate because it was already seen to be slipping into ruin. Nothing's done, nothing's done that way. And that's how we got as far as we could. HINA was founded in '90. A year. That's the year the Internet was invented. When HINA began to exist the portal was gone, HINA had no competition in this respect. And of course all the users, all the publishers had to use HINA and pay for its services, but after the Internet expanded, which was founded a whole series of HINA portals continued to operate at the same level. She sells the news, she sells the news to someone today, so you have as much news as you want, free of charge. We warned that in this sense the HINA Act should be amended because it cannot operate competitively in such conditions because you HINA's news you have to pay, you have to subscribe, and then you have to sign the password and then you have to enter that password to get the news, and you press any portal here's news attacks you. The former government didn't want to notice it, even though we warned her about it, but let HINA sink. The tax was reduced during Prime Minister Sanader's term, the VAT was reduced to 10%, aided publishers. Publishers were helped because they claimed they could not use such a high VAT, with a general VAT rate to issue newspapers and how the price of newspapers would then be reduced if VAT was reduced so that people could read the newspaper more. The VAT was reduced, the price of newspapers was not reduced, but it was increased, but the photos of Ivo Sanader appeared on the front pages and a whole series of journalists appeared to celebrate it until the day he fell, until he left politics. HINA is the only one paying a full VAT rate today, everyone else is down 10%, HINA pays 25%. So how can HINA survive when others are taken care of, and not of her. Such neglect has led to what we are now. The 2010 report shows an deepening of the financial crisis. The loss went from 2.9 million to 3.9 million kuna. All the bells are ringing at the alarm, but I repeat, nothing is being done. Management is trying to do something in 2011 and reducing this loss from 3.9 to 1.3 million kuna. It reduces but how, so it reduces wages and reduces investment. The downsizing of wages led to a conflict with the union, and now relations have been broken and the administration and the union are in court. So it can't be said that the administration itself didn't do anything, she tried to save a sinking ship, but by bad means and again without the help of the state left to herself. Market revenues fell in 2011 to only 10.7 million kuna, the lowest level since 2000. But business policy is fully focused on the revenues from the country. The biggest publishers, STYRIA and EPH were cancelled. Those who pay VAT by 10% cancelled HINA's co-operation. The announcement of news in HINA is late compared to portals, but whose portals are responsible for the accuracy of their news? No one, no one. HINA's responding. HINA-not news must be accurate, must be reliable, must be checked. Because of this lack of money, of course, the quality has fallen. The lack of exclusive news, we heard it, the lack of topics, interviews, and the announcements and reports from the news conferences have everyone, so their value is low. Now I have read HINA's report or report on the INDEX or the Morning List to dear God anyway. In HINA, however, I can trust that it is true, that there is no material error, in these others I am not entirely sure. But my God, they don't answer to anyone for that accuracy anyway. The potential of Vjesnik's documentation, which represents national wealth, has not been used. The project has invested 13 million kuna mainly from the state budget. And that Vesnik file is in Kerestinco, under bad conditions. She'll rot there, she'll fail if she doesn't digitize. Yeah, but now there's no money to digitize. The money that was secured to digitize that archive was spent on wages, on regular action. And if we as a state let it rot out there, that's what mice and rats eat up. It can't be restored anymore. When I was a journalist, none of us did, nor did any of my colleagues think to write an article about anything without going to Vesnik's file. It didn't occur to anyone. Today, fellow young journalists probably don't even know that this documentation exists and what treasure it hides. It is part of Croatian history, an important part recorded in this documentation. So if that paperwork doesn't get saved, I think we'll suffer one of those national damages that will be irreparable. It's an irreversible process, it's over, it's gone, it's unique there. The conflicts that exist inside HINA, I think they're indecisive between the administration and the union. The HINA administration proposed that, at its meeting on 3 November 2011, the Administrative Council be approved by the trade unions of the illegal decision on the restructuring of HINA and the Internal Design Regulation. The administrative board therefore sees trying to do something, it makes restructuring decisions, but the union claims these decisions are illegal. So because of the violation of the Labour Council Act of HINA, the Court of Municipal Court of Zagreb has brought an action to determine the integrity of such decisions of the Governing Council. In the light of the complaint, the administration submitted to the Court a decision by the Administrative Council of 16 December on the suspension of those decisions. The HINA Workers' Council has now filed a lawsuit in the same court recently to determine the integrity of the transport decisions and the decision to lower the salary coefficient adopted by the Administrative Council on a proposal from the administration in November 2011. The trade unions claim, the working council argues that these decisions violate Article 149. The labour law which defines the need to consult the working council before making decisions relating to the material and working position of workers. How long will the court order be? So who knows how it's already going in our courts. After HINA's management for the third time in 3 years reduced salaries to HINA's employees, the Union of Journalists was forced to seek judicial protection of employees' rights. Although the union has repeatedly warned that issues of important interest for employees must be addressed in co-operation with the management union, they have been legally regulated by easy-to-disputed decisions in court by the working council. How do you resolve this conflict? Well, obviously it's also needed by a new board of directors. We do not have a representative of the Governing Council here, they have not been worthy of coming before the Croatian Parliament to which they report. That's embarrassing, that's inadmissible! That can't happen. They report to us, and we accept that report, reject or take notice, but it's totally unacceptable that none of them come here. If there were no other reasons, this would be enough for this report to be rejected because no one can treat the Croatian Parliament that way. The representatives of the citizens are elected here and the Administrative Council of HINA should treat them with respect. And there's no excuse for this. So, you probably need a new board of directors, you probably need a new director. And I'm saying that the former director, the current director, was unable to do anything with this kind of former government towards HINA. But he couldn't do that to any of the other directors. No administrative council changes the state's attitude to HINA will do anything. We can choose a new board of directors, we can choose a new director, or the principal will do nothing. They can't do anything until they have to sell news that others give for free. So it's important to change the HINA Act, we need a serious government engagement about it, we need our support from the government to help HINA, and that's the only way to get this agency out of the fungi. Or to conclude the Croatian agency is not needed, so let it go to waste. I personally think it is necessary, I personally think there will come a time when it will appreciate the accuracy of information, the reliability of information, when people will be disgusted by the yellowness that flooded the media and when they will seek much more seriousness in journalism. Well, then that fire of HINA needs to be kept alive, because it's going to be re-created if it's destroyed it's going to be very difficult. Therefore, here is the SDP club that accepts the position of the Government, the position of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, but also calls on the Government to seriously address the HINA Act and thus try to help the Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6968	Thank you very much. Vice President... There is a correction to the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Mr. Zeljko Reiner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6969	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I'd like to try to correct a few of the wrong allegations. One that's very important is the quote "Dear God doesn't care whether the data is downloaded from some portal or from HINA." It seems to me that this is exactly what the last person said to me was, in fact, exactly the opposite of that because it certainly doesn't matter. HINA and similar agencies provide verified, secure data and, of course, portals are not controlled, they can put anything, they are not responsible, we all know the problems with the internet that occur. Others may be an incorrect allegation that is once again partially corrected at the end but I don't understand why contradictory claims are made is that the question is whether HINA should survive following the fact that it sells information and others share them. Neither Reuters nor Associated Press, none of those agencies failed, so no HINA needed. And management is just like we've heard everything we've done to stabilize financially. Therefore, it seems to me that it all comes down to the need to change the administrative council and the director of HINA as well as in many things. Of course, they'll come in similar and it'll all be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6970	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunchana Glavak on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will at first express my regret, surprise, it is very unusual, I think my colleague Stazic will remember that for the first time we are experiencing this so that someone completely ignores the Croatian Parliament and that there is no one from the board of directors, but allow no one from the founders. So there's no one from the Ministry's resolution and there's no one from the Ministry of Culture or the Government if you want, but I'll come back a little later. I'll be back 10 years. This was mentioned by my predecessors, so the legal framework was passed 10 years ago when HINA was quite well positioned as a public service, when there were perhaps two or three portals on our market at the time or such news reports. In the last 10 years, we have also witnessed technological progress, and I will also remind them that the Government or the Ministry is spending a lot of money to have the media monitoring and they don't want to take it over, for example, from HINA, which one so offered them as something that as a public service she should and do that public good that we all talk about can all use. So, I wonder what could be more useful to spend 17 million kunas without VAT, why it would not be available to all users as well as in HINA, agreeing that their representatives or members of the administration who have proposed it, and not that a large amount of money from the state budget goes, for example, to private companies that provide or provide such a service. When we talk about users it is visible from the report that actually the number of users has not been reduced that much. However, what has been reduced is the settlement of mandatory users. Well, for example, I'm not going to be here for this speaker right now to tell you who are private customers who don't pay HINA's services, which is why part of HINA is in those financial problems, not because of their spending money, unintended pay and so on, but also, for example, the Vjesnik who also didn't pay their dues, or we're wondering what's with those who are using HINA's news, and they're actually reshaping them and signing them as their own. This report shows that HINA has also shown that good and quality can be done under scarce material conditions. First of all, several indicators from HINA's financial operations. Therefore, the total income of HINA for 2011 is less than the total expenditure for the amount of outstanding claims of around 30 million kuna. So this confirms that HINA is not losing in terms of not paying the commitments. I must point out that HINA is also a media house that has not fired a single employee and I will remind myself of what my predecessors have said, and I have talked about it on the board and I appeal once again to the government to consider why HINA pays VAT at full rate, so now 25 at the time of writing this report 23%, and everyone else is paying 10%, and then we're talking about this being a scream, cry out, appeal to HINA to help her. Well, then let's help her. We're here as agents who can help. So HINA has no debt, is not in charge of credit, workers receive salaries in time, pays their contributions, and the difference between planned revenues and expenditures according to the report is due to the situation in the media market and because HINA has not been able to restructure the administration proposed. In difficult market and media conditions, HINA sought to position itself or maintain itself as a public service. This is also supported by the number of facts that the administration has made from reconstruction to a proposal for new tools to strengthen the position of HINA as a public service. Unfortunately, the report also says the administration did not have strong enough support, and the biggest reason is not to provide support from part of the employees, which is certainly their legitimate right. Moreover, the problem of HINA will not be solved by one person. The founder's reaction, the owner's reaction, is lacking, for example, for several months now, not being discussed in the competent ministry on the proposed model of reconstruction offered by the end of last year when the new minister was taken over, nor the outdated legal framework that would provide other options for action. Nevertheless, the report shows that HINA, contrary to the government's view, has no loss, and that it fully confirms the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which was accompanied by the same positive opinion, gave a resolute Ministry of Culture, but after that, the government sat down, thought for a long time and decided otherwise. No matter how positive the opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture are, the government thinks differently, so now everyone should think differently. HINA needs help, we've been talking about it for years. It insists on this, however, insisting on the shift of management only points to one fact, and that is a political cleanup because we are not talking about the scale of things here, and that is the report of the Governing Council. I will just remind myself that Croatia is under EU monitoring and that it would be bad for the media that has been performing its public function to enter the current political sphere of staffing the current government for years. No objections to editorial policy, no one's talking about it. Nobody talks about HINA withdrawing funds from European funds, keeping the existing number of users, reduced material costs. No, it's just that it's not that the administrative council resigns, for example, because we're discussing their report, but it's explicitly requesting the Director's shift. HINA must not be questioned and no, agency news is not a tabloid reporting. As for the Vesnik documentation that makes up our collective memory, the digitalization process is being carried out, but it is true that it is slowed down, and we all know why, therefore, because of the reduction of funds. But we can also say that this is HINA's added value and that it should be commercialized by me. HINA is responsible for the accuracy and reliability of the information, HINA cannot be like some others to pass on information without checking it and to read incorrect information or semi-information on HINA's portal. Ignorance of agency journalism or comparison with, for example, other portals when HINA is inadmissible because in this way all other agencies in the world work. They don't work on principle allegedly and they don't work on the principle of adjudication. It's true when you look at HINA's news that you can be absolutely sure that it's accurately transmitted. No personal comments, no editor interventions, and no political interference. Media processes are turbulence, media space is often expressed by communication noises, and a clear picture without it, without such noises we expect from relevant agencies and so is HINA. There is no question that Croatia needs a serious agency, but with a shift in the media market, which has become a bit shy and do, 20 years of existence and professionalism is a guarantee that quality personnel have. I'm sorry there's no one here we can tell what this report really looks like. Well, I don't want to offend anyone, but, for example, voluntary fire departments might be better able to count what they've done. We expect, however, from people who are sitting and in the board to do this a little bit better, to have a more decent document come before the MPs. I will return to the HINA Act which, in our court, represents a series of restrictions in the development of a national news agency which, as a public institution, needs to carry out established tasks of public information, but also acts as a business entity that produces modern media content by way of market principles. The law also needs to be adapted to the conditions of Croatia's full membership in the EU by establishing information services and services provided by the national news agency on the basis of specific or exclusive rights. HINA today also has a unique comparative advantage in the region, has acquired the linguistic and computing ability of automatic reading and sorting publicly available media content or documents in Croatian and also the ability to apply them to other Slavic languages of JI Europe. This priority enables the implementation of advanced communication systems in daily agency work. So far, such software solutions have only existed for the so-called so-called program solutions. Great world languages. HINA has the conditions to become a place of organisation of knowledge from public media in JI Europe, a place of regional integration and exchange of public knowledge. The reconstruction for the development of HINA with its 156 employees in the coming years needs to be a central place for access to an objective, factual, verifiable, balanced and complete information content in the premises of Croatia and the wider region. We at the HDZ Club consider HINA necessary for Croatia, HINA started the restructuring process, we were offered some new moments to develop and the HDZ club will support this report and HINA should give an opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6972	Thank you, counselor. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6973	Thank you very much. It's incorrect not to listen to HINA cry about VAT altitude. Well, speaking here on behalf of the SDP, I called on the government to consider the issue. This government, which is in office for three months, will now receive our debate for the first time, a parliamentary debate on the HINA report so that it can take action on the basis of this debate. But for 8 years, you had time to cut the VAT on HINA, so you didn't do anything, even though we warned you. You didn't do anything, you cut the VAT to private publishers, but you didn't want to cut the VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6974	Thank you. Mr. Damir Kai's representative, on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6975	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't ask anyone, I don't replace anyone, but no matter what, we'll support this government opinion. The problem of the media in Croatia is certainly not from today. The problem of the media in Croatia must be serious. No one has said so far that HINA received 17.6 million kuna from the government every year or last year for 2011. Vesnik gets about 15 million kuna, Croatian broadcasting through a television subscription or better said incentives to call it the EU, gets over a billion and 100 million kuna. And I just have to mention, with that HRT for three years, I've been running one dispute over what's been said about this pay phone that almost every show in them can be bought. And three years. And the value of the dispute has passed 200 thousand kuna. But, well, let's let that terror go, I guess that'll work out. But now what I want to say. It doesn't matter, that my dispute. I said HINA annually from the Croatian state gets either from the Croatian budget 17.6 million kuna. In 2010, gross wages in HINA were 25 thousand and 500 kuna, net of 14 thousand 428 kuna. In 2011, the gross salary in HINA amounted to 23 thousand 300 kuna, net 2011 was 13 thousand 343 kuna. I wish it was more. It is true, as we have heard earlier, that the media is paying that VAT on these press releases at a rate of 10%, HINA pays or paid 23%, today 25%, but it should also be recognised that they receive 17.6 million kuna from the state budget. If it is possible to resolve the HINA problem, and it will not be possible with a smaller VAT, this should be done immediately. What's the point? This is the point of business in this report of the Administrative Council of HINA for 2011. Therefore, it is said that HINA's business in the second half of 2011 was quoted as "mostly stable", which is recorded positive shifts, it is not important, the negative effects on liquidity have a general extension of payment deadlines, unpaid claims, the debts made by HINA's contractual customers on 31.12.2011. amounted to almost 1.3 million kuna of which almost 1.2 million kuna were sued and made by the rest of the claims while trying to reach an extrajudicial agreement with debtors etc. It is clear that these 1.3 million kunas at this point are nothing dramatic, but once again I repeat 17.6 million kuna is revenue from the state budget, which is 63% of the total income that HINA generates annually. The other thing I'd like to say is I'd also sincerely like one Vesnik to survive all these turbulences on the market, and there'll be a bankruptcy over their 90s and some employees. The Director of Vesnika does not want to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, but I can rightly ask myself whether all government under quotes "services", all government media can do business somehow under quotes "under the same roof". So both HRT and Croatian Radio and HINA and Vesnik with the goal of surviving as many media houses as possible than journalists. Why? Because journalists are actually media. I agree that media space is one of the most expensive in Croatia. Many who will lose a job in journalism find it hard to find it anywhere else. I mean these other media. If it is the bread of the seamen, as the people like to say, with seven crusts, it is certainly not with less crust. But also some people's bread from politics that are daily not only every 4 years on the market, there's also nothing less under the quotes "the crust". Now what's the situation in HINA? I will also as we are all calling for some portals to be used by some of them, so I will quote, "The Working Council of HINA, the Association of Journalists of Croatia SNH and the HND Office of HINA today called for the resignation of members of the board and the Management Board of the Agency. Although the problems in HINA are a number of direct causes for the action of journalists was a session of the Governing Council held on 11 April etc." "In a letter addressed," it states, "the members of the administration and the Governing Council of the Agency to the Resord Ministry, Government, Parliament, the Office of the Presidents, stress that instead of making the mandate available to the government on 5 April on the Annual Report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA as of 1 May 2010, members of the Governing Council have taken more decisions on the reorganisation which, before the debate in the Croatian Parliament, took place in the Annual Report of the HINA of the Government on Inactivity and Failures of the Governing Council, sought to make unfounded." "After the government," it said, "it expressed no confidence because they failed to implement the reorganisation and financial consolidation in due time, despite the fact that the agency has been operating for years with losses, and its users are canceling the co-operation of council members on 11 April have adopted a restructuring decision, etc." So if you have one war, literally that's what I'm going to call it, in that order what's to be done or what's to be done to the government? So I think it would be logical at that point in some way to change management. Likewise, the unions say, just to find out, that the union, I quote "and HINA news agency employees have warned today that from the new director of the agency to be elected soon they expect to be brought out of the deepest crisis in which the agency has been in existence for 20 years." So among other things, it says here, I quote, "They also remind that HINA lost a whole series of great users last year, among which are the most important news publishers." That's probably where the EPH is thinking, I don't know STYRIA, etc., "and its revenue from the state budget has been reduced, which is why the business year ended with 2.9 million kuna losses with a drop in income of 6 million kuna." This year, they say, in 2012, they will do business with a loss of 4.7 million kuna with a further drop in revenue for 3 million kuna. It means, as far as financial indicators are concerned, if nothing is done, it is certain that the 2012 revenues will be lower than 2011. These in the union account for 4.7 million kuna compared to those 1.3 million kuna with a further drop in revenue for 3 million kuna. We have about 150 employees in HINA today. I fear that if this situation is to be resolved, some of them will have to thank them for their trust. Finally, 150 people work around the clock if I'm not mistaken, so they told me in one of the Evening List's editors, one of the Morning Lists, in one of the New Lists. There are also comments and interviews and the papers agree, and events are being followed from all over the country. I'm not saying HINA doesn't do that, that it doesn't follow events, but certainly the size of the daily composing business and what HINA does is like day and night, and that's what they do in both Morning and Evening and New List with about the same people as there are employees in one HINA. HINA, as we all agree more or less in a way, has always been one government service. It pays that 17.6 million kuna a year where the salary is about 14 thousand kuna, let it be, let it be bigger. But clearly no one should be a servant but a loyal one. I'd say if it's about those who run the system to the government it has to be. Be loyal to management, the journalist must be free, he must be as independent as the information should be in one word impartial. No one should obey the government, no one should listen to anyone, but no one should also be said "servile." Clearly, these relations in finance in one institution and among people need to be resolved in order to survive these 158 people. And it's not just about crying, I'd say that the thing at this point is, first of all, in the workplace. Because here are the Vesnik reporters I dare say we'd be very happy to trade with HINA journalists, but their chance isn't given. I read this morning, I think it was somewhere in Free Dalmatia that privates fired 67,000 people in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. So this is about small trade, trade, industry, hospitality. In Zagreb, every third store in the nearest center is closed today. How's it going elsewhere? In the public sector, no one has been affected except the journalist Vesnik with this one working job to express myself in suspense. And that's why I think journalists, HINA employees must be as firm as what people would say on earth, because the emergence of new media may make the needs for HINA's services much less than they are today. And that's just the future of HINA. We can paint ourselves, but if we want to admit ourselves to the truth, then we'll show that truth in such a way. And as the loss of HINA without firing people in 2012 will inevitably be greater than it was in 2011. Thus, the loss under the same circumstances in 2013 will be greater than in 2012. On the other hand, I agree whether one HINA should be a newspaper or whether it should be a new portal. You shouldn't, but then a man really asks if 150 people are needed and someone's going to have to take care of it soon. What I would personally like to say to HINA and I particularly appreciate the people I know in some counties for this institution to cover the counties more strongly. I would like to know how many workers are employed in this "directory in Zagreb" and how many in 20 counties. In Istria where there are still fortunate events all one HINA employee is employed. I personally find it simply insufficient. Perhaps there are too many in Zagreb, perhaps there should be more of them on the "terren", because one man certainly can't follow all the events in that county, and then he finds out how, in fact, by following local portals or by contacting some of his contacts to get one "checked information". But no matter what HINA needs, you should give it a chance. If they'll use it, we'll see. But if he's entitled to another chance, HINA, a man is asking himself a question about this pay phone if he'd be entitled to another chance, say, one Vesnik. The vesnik that now turns into a portal, so it's a leaf that's been shut down with one thing I don't know about 90 or a hundred years tradition it doesn't matter, but it wasn't shut down by the government, it was shut down by the readers, not by the service of their editors who were always between objectivity and serviceliness to say more agreeable to those who installed them. As much as I say, we will support the government's normal opinion on this Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA and indeed the opportunities within that directorship-employee-relation should be resolved as soon as possible, I suppose new people at the head of HINA and employees must understand in HINA that the opportunities, regardless of the wages corrected badly so far, have not been as tragic as they are. in one of the Vesniks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6976	Thank you very much. In 10.40, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. We're continuing the club debate. The positions of the HDSSB club will be brought closer to us by distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6977	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs. So I have to admit to my own surprise that since the five debates on behalf of the clubs, somehow the closest discussion was the SDP's Club of Representatives, or Mr Stazic. I was surprised by that myself. But the argument part of the argument he made without politicizing is that argument that I would also point out to her but also some other arguments that I don't think have been touched in this debate so far. So HINA was founded on July 26th and the Croatian news agency was founded on July 26th 1990. The first news was broadcast in 17.8.1990. The establishment of HINA was one of the first political decisions by the democratic Croatian authorities to announce the infamous ominous Tanjug in Croatia, to establish our Croatian news agency. I remember how pleased I was to see HINA's establishment. In more than two decades, HINA has certainly been one of those institutions established in Croatia today, which fully justified its existence. We remember all the importance of HINA in years of war when Croatia was the target and disinformation war. This report of the Administrative Council of HINA, namely these two reports of the Administrative Council of HINA for the period from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011 and the second report from 1 May 2011 to 31 December 2011, would be assessed by expert, extensive and thorough. The report detailed the operations of HINA’s agency service, the work of editors, services and editorials and the further programme of reconstruction. This report shall also include a detailed analytical and financial report. There are also notes explaining certain items, analysis of profit and loss accounts, balance sheet report, comparison of revenue and expenditure achieved in 2010, 2011, indicators of performance of business, and demonstration of the income structure of HINA from 2000 to 2011. So I think it's a good report that gives one full piece of information about work. According to business efficiency indicators for 2011 business revenues fell from 30 to 29 million compared to 2010, business expenditure was reduced by 4 million, from 34 to 30 million kuna and total business loss is therefore slightly more than a million kuna in 2011. The income structure shows that from 2001 to 2011 income from the state budget of HINA increased annually from 16.6 million to 17.6 million, which is practically an increase in revenues at the expense of the state budget from only 6%. This is, in fact, a reduction in state funding because this percentage is also more than the growth of the budget of the year itself and than the inflation rate of 11 years. On the other hand, the revenues achieved on the market fell, as the predecessors said from 16 2008 to 11 million kuna in 2011. Also, for a long time there has been an offer to the government, an offer to HINA to buy a media monitoring service that would save several million kunas a year, and income from the sale of such a product would lead HINA to positive business. The previous government did not show any interest in the product, it is now relatively short. Also, in the last 11 years, this state-run news agency has managed to maintain a 60 % income structure from the state budget and 40% of the revenues it generates from the external services of users. And what is very important for Croatia's news agency, HINA is believed to be, HINA gives complete and accurate information. HINA was never, not even during the war, a means of media spreading half or misinformation. HINA is therefore recognized both in Croatia and outside Croatia as one serious service agency. What burdens the business of HINA itself? Under one, the decline in business revenues as a result of the general economic crisis that the entire economy is facing, as well as the media. Two, since the beginning of 2009, the Government's decision on the state budget has abolished support for the digitalisation project of the Vesnik archive building, but at the same time the Government has pressed HINA, which, in a permanent working relationship and after the termination of the project, retained 14 employees from the Vesnik newspaper documentation for the implementation of the project. The acquisition of these employees has added to HINA’s business for around 2 million kuna per year. Also, as mentioned earlier, unlike printed media that pay VAT of 10% or unlike HTV that has a zero VAT subscription, HINA state, the national reporting agency is a taxpayer of VAT and pays VAT 25%. The question is why this is why the Government of Ivo Sanader, later in Jadranka Kosor, the HDZ government did not want to reduce VAT to 10% when it reduced the press to Stir and EPH, did not want to reduce VAT and HINA, its state-run, national reporting agency and whether foreign capital had been favoured in this case and made it difficult to place the national state agency. As regards the measures taken by HINA administration over the last few years during the recession, under one of what makes each employer a reduction in the number of HINA employees could not have done. Although there are surplus employees according to the administration's statements, he cannot fire or change the number of employees. They've cut salaries by about 18%, they're having a dispute with workers who are in court. They cut the business expenditure by 8.3%. At this point HINA has no debts, regularly pays salaries, is not in debt, has claims of around 1.3 million kuna. HINA was also a quality service to Croatian institutions and citizens. We in the HDSSB remained very negatively quite surprised by the report of the Assembly Committee on Information, Opinion and the accepted conclusions of the Committee. Namely, the Parliamentary Committee on Information and Media has decided not to take the Annual Report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA, it is a legitimate decision of the Committee. However, the conclusion number 2 did not accept the report of the Governing Council of HINA, in conclusion number 2 did not require the replacement of this Governing Council of HINA, but was asked by the Governing Council of HINA to discharge the director of HINA and appointed the acting director. I will remind you of the 2001 HINA Act, in Articles 10 and 11. The law states that HINA is managed by the Administrative Council, and this is the Administrative Council appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament, the Administrative Council. Articles 14 and 17 shall discuss the procedure for the removal, appointment and resolution of the Director of HINA appointed and resolved by the Administrative Council. So the Croatian Parliament or the boards of the Croatian Parliament cannot resolve the director of HINA. Just as I don't see where the legal basis is that the Board of the Croatian Parliament is bound by the Administrative Council, so it can request its replacement, resolution, appointment of a new board of directors that it can have if it decides to make a decision on the replacement of the Director of HINA. So here, in this case, politics takes its right to make one conclusion on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, which policy should not be done, so it decides to resolve the director of HINA because it is the authority of the Governing Council of HINA. We are even more surprised by the majority decision of this committee which we do not otherwise agree with and we do not understand exactly what they are, from which the legal powers are derived at all. We are particularly surprised here and a certain synchronicity between the representatives of laborists, opposition and the authorities of the CNS on that committee itself. Why the HNS? Because HINA, the unfortunate HINA is under the authority of the Ministry of Culture, i.e. Minister Zlatar of the HNS Lager. Given that in this ruling coalition, resistors are shared as cake slices and everyone enjoys their cross unobstructed by the other one, it turns out that the scheme of humanization in the government of HINA is neither guilty nor indebted to that HNS slice. Well, it looks like the SDPs wouldn't want to touch someone else's slice. According to our data, this decision by the Committee on Information of the Assembly has been preceded by institutional and extra-institutional pressures on some members of the Governing Council and on the director of HINA as strongly as possible. I think that's also the answer to why there's no present representative of HINA's Governance Council. There is also a rumor that members of the HINA Steering Council were invited to some ministerial cabinets and were pressured to carry out the shift of the director of HINA. The annual report on the work under the Law on HINA shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Administrative Council and may bear the consequences of accepting or not accepting its report. The election and recall procedure of the members of the Governing Council of HINA's Law on HINA is clearly prescribed. And that's where it's all clear. Therefore, the Parliamentary Committee for Information neither appoints nor resolves the Director of HINA, nor is it able to oblige the Governing Council of HINA to resolve the Director of HINA. Such an attempt by political shift synchronised between part of the government and part of the opposition is somehow a blow to Croatian democracy, but also to the freedom of the media in the Republic of Croatia. And it all happens in the context of some strange events and around HTV, or HRT. Are some stakeholders trying to carry out a silent strike on both national television and the News News Agency? Is there perhaps another, not only political but also business interests in which the current HINA Administration does not fit very well? Therefore, the HDSSB expresses concern, we call here for strict and serious compliance with Croatian laws and respect for the principle of freedom of the media and political non-involvement in media freedoms. We also warn that media freedoms have also been the subject of permanent monitoring by the European Commission over the Republic of Croatia in the EU accession process. The HDSSB supports the Annual report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA. We will be against any attempt by an extra-institutional or illegal political arbitration in the work of the National Reporting Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6978	Thank you very much. On this exhibit, we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. First, distinguished representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6979	Thank you very much. As a member of the Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that the board has therefore made a decision and suggested that the Director be replaced. We simply suggested it to the Governing Council, or proposed it to the Parliament. And I think it is unserious to give lessons that the Croatian Parliament is allowed to do and not to. I don't think the Parliament should actually insinuate itself and talk about who received whom and when they met, so talk half-truths. The fact that HDSSB colleagues are satisfied with the state of HINA and with the HINA report, I think they're one of the few. Because if you look at the report, you'll see that neither workers nor anyone is actually satisfied. And not from today, but for years. And I think it's the right of the Croatian Parliament under the law to suggest that the HINA deal with the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6980	Thank you very much. Second correction by Honorary Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6981	I'd like to correct a few incorrect allegations from my HDSSB colleagues. It's bad when an agent speaks from a cancerous experience he has alone and exclusively from the perspective of his own party. To claim that the HNS has some kind of lager is extremely offensive and incorrect because the ruling coalition does not function on the principle of lagers but is an organisation of different parties that has set its programming and political goals. And one of the important tasks of the government is to prevent the public from being destroyed rather than being preserved, processed and advanced and HINA is public well-being by the founder of the Croatian Parliament as a special law. This is where we come to another incorrect quote from colleagues who deny the right of the Committee on Information, Information and Media not only to discuss in this way at their sessions
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6982	I'm afraid you won't have time for that second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6983	Instead, he proposes certain solutions to the Croatian Assembly. No one can prevent a parent from making such suggestions. And what HDSSB has
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6984	Done, done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6985	Practice in Slavonia that you can't be a cleaning lady, let alone a university professor, it's another pair of sleeves.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6986	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's okay, we're done. This concludes the debate on clubs and we move on to individual debates. First of all, the honourable representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6987	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. When a company happens to have incomes down by 12% in a year then the alarm bell rings. Such a decline in income in HINA occurred, and the alarms were not, or were not able to reduce such a trend. Because it's been going on for years. The more I can't call it success, the smaller the revenues in the next 2010 are compared to 2009. But the percentage of 12% of income cuts says that there's something wrong with financial business. Efforts to consolidate financial operations by reducing income, i.e. salaries to employees, have failed. I understand employees who are not happy with this, but I'm afraid it's not even the general orientation of one such institution that can thus confirm or secure its activity. My question of this kind leads to another, which is, as an agent, can I accept one such report? I cannot because it shows the long-standing neglect of that institution and such activities. In that, I won't go in now what some predecessors did, which government is guilty of long-standing neglect of HINA? It's certainly not the one that's only 100 days in power. What could have been fixed? In years, of course, a lot of things. But it happened the other way around. Let's say that one of the key strategic definitions of HINA was the cost of 13 million kuna. And according to all the success reports in this regard, there was no success, and my predecessors warned. Such things and such circumstances and the fact that these are financial issues that make it impossible for us to accept this report as representatives, and that is why we actually bless everything that has happened, not political nature and are not influential media and are not imposing control. What I want to underline by saying about the whole issue is my support, after all, I voted in favour of a part of these conclusions, which was concluded by the Information Committee. The Information Committee kept it strictly to its authority. He didn't accept the report. Well, of course, it would have been him who was asked to decide. The competent authority shall have the power to adopt delegated acts in The HINA law says "that the body that will decide on administration is the administrative council", the management president in this case can of course expect that the administrative board will request her shift, so this was also to be expected in view of earlier results and given the lack of systematic policy that would stabilise HINA's business. I'll end up with something Mr. Stazic's chairman mentioned here. This isn't just a discussion about the report and it's not a discussion about the principal, this is a debate about the future of HINA. And our position here on the non-acceptance of the report is clearly the Parliament's clear wish that such a cowardly policy of hesitation that something changes in business cannot continue. I am sorry that the debate is then being held on what month the administrative council was changed, when which ministry gave a positive assessment. What is our responsibility to say responsibly is whether we can accept one such report with all the things that are being discussed here. And secondly, is our attempt to actually stabilise and correct the relationship between the working atmosphere and the rich success of HINA which is strategically important to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6988	The replica is pointed out by counterpart Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think I'm a little uncomfortable in legal matters replicating Professor. Cregar, but here's to be clear. Therefore, the Administrative Council of HINA corresponds to the Croatian Assembly and the Croatian Parliament can request a resolution of the Governing Council. However, in this case, the decision of the Committee on Information, Information and Media has not been requested at all by the Committee to amend or resolve the Governing Council of HINA, and the report of the Governing Council of HINA has already requested the staying of the Board of Directors, so we are satisfied with this Governing Council with its report and we, as a political body, ask that the Director of HINA be resolved. So here's what I don't understand is what can be based on in this way can only be interpreted as political pressure on the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6990	We will also hear a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6991	Your Honor, sir. The board would have violated its powers if it had made a decision to replace the principal. But he made a request to the part that he was entitled to do in accordance with his powers, and I quoted Article 17(2), points 3 and 5. It seems to me that the HINA Act clearly requires that the administrative council decide on this. It remains to us that if the administrative council doesn't act on it then we should decide on their resolution, of course. But in this case, I think the emphasis would really be on a constructive exit from this institutional crisis of HINA. I say this because the committee's decision was based on the fact that it cannot be expected that the same administration will have the strength and will to change what has been in the same place for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6992	We continue the debate, so I call on the now respected representative Jasen Mesic to address the Croatian Parliament and the public in a 10-minute debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6993	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry I haven't been able to attend the debate on the parent board. I listened very carefully to what my colleagues and colleagues were saying, and I will remind myself of the report of the Management Board of HINA for the past year and part of 2010. I have to say very briefly that the report is correct. So what it says is true. The facts are very clearly presented. Since for most of this report, I was a resolute minister. I certainly assure you that I had at least 5 meetings with the Working Council, that I had at least 5 meetings apart from, say, 2, 3 months with the administration, that I had several meetings with the principal that I had several joint meetings and that I had several meetings on the subject with colleagues and colleagues from the then opposition, the current ruling coalition. Realising in 2011, what objective circumstances make HINA's business more difficult for HINA, which brings HINA into a difficult position, as some here have said on the market, although it can't and can't be on the market in the right sense, because it also has public money, and I realize that nowhere in the world, serious news agencies don't raise the first information but always raise the first portals, news agencies take it over, and then they come to our country through a news agency, so we see the inscription, I don't know now, I don't know that some news agencies have in them, or departments that are in charge of audiovisual news shows, so we can often see it on TV what HINA doesn't have. Realising that for the media monitoring, to be used by HINA, HINA must win the public competition if it wants any state institution..., aware of the problems with the archive in Kerestinco, we have also launched the process of building a new archival storage project. Even more complicated is the situation with the legacy of the cinema, it is even more complicated because it requires much more complicated.... So aware of all this, in the 4th month we do not accept the proposal to restructure and improve the business of HINA because we claim that the Administrative Council is no longer... at the request of the Working Council to give the right of the Working Council. We're on our way to appointing a new board of directors with an assignment to get these things done in HINA. Then, given what is said, I would say complicated and complex relations in HINA, we are looking for an internal tender for staff representatives in the Governing Council, the implementation of an internal tender. I wonder if it'll be done now. The implementation of an internal tender was chosen by HINA employees who would be their representatives. That's what they spent on their own and we accepted. After that, when a new administrative council was formed, when voted on in this House, we asked for the process of those programmes in which this Parliament has in some way warned all years, and this is being spoken in the financial business for 2011. I won't go further in... I'll concentrate on this year to then come what we do in the future. And as you can see, financial losses have been reduced. We must also say that HINA had previously taken over 14 Vjesnik employees related to the archives, took them over, that the state money had not been added for this because the budget was simply reduced so they were not now increased but were reduced because they simply tried to cut budget expenditures. At which point the state intervenes otherwise, except that through the Governing Council it seeks to accept the restructuring, reorganisation and new media services that this news agency, if we agree that we need it, should be accepted. Come on, tell me another time, what else can that pro futuro be? I hope that the board, I say I apologize for not being present, I hope that the board took it, and that it also called in its conclusions to analyse the proposed restructuring and reorganisation programmes of HINA. Negotiations fell between the administration and the council of employees, constantly falling under labour rights. The negotiations lasted for months, I personally sat on those negotiations several times, they were painful, difficult, and today we could hear that here is the salary, given that they compare themselves with others in the news agency and are not so bad. I have to agree with all my colleagues and colleagues who have expressed their dissatisfaction that there are no representatives or board of directors here and no one perhaps interested in the government since we are making a recommendation to the government to do so in some way. It is not clear to me that some, quite, disagreed with some colleagues who, as part of the debate on this report, said that politics had interfered in the work of HINA. I've never personally called any journalist or editor of HINA, never, and I can testify to the employees that we've spoken to the parent ministry on a number of occasions about this problem with the desire to solve it. Here it was mentioned in discussions of several possible models to improve HINA in this way. I, as I said, do not see any other model than the reorganisation and reorganisation model, because income from the services achieved will not recover as much as you say. We can change the entire board of directors, we can... the director. As far as Article 17 is concerned, HINA's Law states: The Director of HINA's Administrative Council may resolve HINA before the end of time if it is appointed if it so requests, if it does not act by the regulations and general acts of HINA, it shall unfoundedly refuse to execute the decisions of the Governing Council within its jurisdiction, if it causes HINA's damage to the unconscious and irregular work, if it is frequently neglected and has been unwittingly performing its duties for which.... I ask you which of these provisions of the article the law is broken. If so, if we agreed that the HINA Act should be renewed and revitalized, it would be possible to open up, so wouldn't it be logical for us to first propose amendments to the law, at the same time to create a thematic session of the board and we will see for ourselves... because I see that many colleagues have said what should be done, as we should. We have potential candidates for a new board of directors. I agree with some of the statements. Wouldn't that be a logical way if we wanted to really stabilize the state of HINA? I think it's the only possible thing. I really think it's the only possible thing. That is why I again claim, Mr. Chairman, both colleagues and colleagues, that the report is correct. If the report is correct, why don't you accept it? I can also agree with the conclusion of a parent committee that decided most of the votes, but I think the recommendations should have gone exactly this way because it's our job and it's the government's job to give it a system-wide fix. This really leaves the impression that you're working... over your knee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6994	Thank you, Your Honor, Representative Mesic. Not everyone agrees with you. Here's a replica of your colleague, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll agree with my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6996	I'm sorry, then I don't know what the replica means. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6997	So it's true that you've been directed to metricu of things since you yourself were a minister of culture, so the resolution minister when it comes to HINA, and it's true that we are questioning the laws that we should implement again. We're the body that makes the laws, and then we don't respect them in the end. We cannot interpret the laws in one way or another, while the HINA Act is as it is in force we must respect it. So we're going in reverse order, and that's what the board's conclusion is about. I personally disagreed, and I'm glad that you quoted the way and what it should look like. I'll warn you of something else, which is that all colleagues say HINA's information is correct, HINA's news is true, and then I ask you why some might not be financially supportive and I'll say that HINA's ticketer is the only pay HDZ from political parties. Take a look at yourself. So only HDZ has a ticker, HDZ pays something – I'm not going to say it's some big money precisely because if we say HINA is needed, and on the other hand we think that maybe some other portals or some other means of communication are more obvious. That's how we treat HINA and protest again because there's no one here from the board and no one from the government. So, I think that we must insist that we respect the legal procedure and that we should all support or give proposals if we have them, but to stop talking more about what is not on the agenda, and on the agenda is the report of the Governing Council for 2011, and we, as members of the board, of course that we can speak sovereignly on the board, is the president here and we expect him to have such a thematic session and call it in and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6998	Thank you. The debate is being held within the same club of representatives. I give my word to the honourable representative, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u6999	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. It's already been said here in the debate that actually the main topic is whether we need HINA, or what is HINA's future? And that's where we heard the totally conflicting attitudes, the completely conflicting findings based on the same report. On the one hand, the financial HINA is not down, on the other hand it's down. On the one hand, the Director should be replaced on the basis of the Management Board Report to be accepted and the Administrative Council should remain. Just a series of these contradictions that have been said so far not to repeat them all. The question arises on the basis of what criteria can we make a proper one assessment and an assessment of how to answer the asked question whether we need HINA, or what is the future of HINA. It seems to me, in fact, that we need to start with one elemental thing that's been going on for the last 20 years with this globalisation, with information, with the Internet, all that's said, and that's what most developed countries have realized, and that's that the basic instruments of national powers are public diplomacy of information and then the economy and the military. Therefore, information is crucial, information is based on overall development, but this is due to the fact that in all these strategies, national development strategies based on these developed countries have their national information strategies that the aim of these strategies is to ensure the domination of the full spectrum of their own information in other people's communities. In other words, the information space has become a battlefield which is a way of calculating with the aim of ensuring the domination of its own information. Information has become a weapon in this sense and information warfare is what you should be aware of. Only in Croatia in the last 15 years for information operations not for the media, non-investment in foreign media, i.e. ownership is spent estimated at around 300m euros. What's the problem now, and why am I saying this? We do not seem to be able, in my opinion, to discuss HINA or similar agencies in quality, unless we have a National Information Strategy. On the other hand, I think that I can agree with the asked question of MPs, that is, Vice-President of Parliament Stazic, but not in a way that addresses the whole problem primarily to the government, but to address the Parliament first, to bring the National Information Strategy, to propose to the Government, on that basis, to bring adequate legal supplements or changes to the government, so that we can then find the answer to whether we need HINA or not. The argument that minus 12 or not I don't know how much of HINA's financial loss isn't a political argument just doesn't stand. That argument is in the case of our National Information Strategy. Today the argument, claimed there are many portals and the clear thing is that there are many portals, but ask the people on the road, ask the students what they think about these portals or the media, so most of them will tell you that 9 out of 10 information is considered to be misinformation and lies. We therefore need something that will be reliable and secure and accurate and that we can rely on. Now, whether it can only be financed or not is then the matter of these strategies that we want and the objectives that we want to ensure. So I think that this is simply a partial assessment that comes from either a financial point of view, whether from the point of view that there is a mass of these portals or other media, is already a question of what will be the relevant point of firm and reliable information in a networked world, but it has already been said that the most developed countries have given up their reporting agencies, they continue to exist. And what we've given up is that we don't even have a network of journalists around the world anymore. We have some individuals or exceptions here and there, but that's not the rule. Therefore, what role will HINA play to represent us towards you, which is why we will only be informed here in Croatia. Therefore, the the thesis that this is a conceptual crisis HINA may be accurate but it is partial. Partial because we here in the Croatian Parliament have no information strategies, and along the way I wanted to say information security but this is another topic, so I will discuss it another time. So it seems to me that we should go back to this key problem and therefore agree on the criteria because otherwise we're going to lead this debate again in a year, two, three, five in the same way unless there's a consequence that we're going to end HINA and then we're going to be misinformed as others want it until things are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7000	Thank you, too. I now call upon the honourable representative Shim Luchin to speak to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7001	Thank you very much. Well, I'm about to say satisfied with the discussion, since regardless of the colleagues who have now discussed colleagues and who have said whether or not they will support this report, but I'm actually reading in some way that we have one unique position, which is that something needs to be done with HINA. So I belong to those who think we need HINA, but now HINA is in this form and in this way it doesn't suit me. I don't think so, but I'm sure, because she doesn't actually perform her basic role as a public service. Can she do it? Well, I'm thinking with the assignments and the law that exists. Well, let's just say I'm the director of HINA and I'd rather not share any news with any portals than me, as a state agency, delivering news from the portal. Or, let's just say, it's inadmissible for me for the state agency to broadcast some interviews. So aren't there any journalists out there who can get to the news, aren't there any journalists who can make... So if you're going to take this particular example and the specific state, I don't think HINA is fulfilling its role. We are now facing a problem that in HINA when you ask the management, when you ask the workers, when you ask the union, when you ask the Association of Journalists in HINA no one is satisfied with the state of HINA. At the same time, we do not get any quality restructuring solutions from the same HINA from the responsible persons, where it is the place of such a news agency in some future. So I bow down and support all those who think that we need to take this issue seriously, so I stress that I think that we need this type of public service but we need to adapt it to the spirit of a certain agreement and strategy but also to certain needs and preferably to adapt one part of the market to open a public debate to open up, which we had, and we seem to agree that we are going to have a public debate on this subject so that we don't talk so much about the situation in HINA, but rather talk about the future of HINA. Maybe we should look at some other examples, some other countries where these news agencies have some kind of place and some kind of role, and even some part of it is doing a good job. I don't know, maybe there's an idea that maybe some public service in this country needs to be connected so we can get some synergy, some kind of greater power, and then maybe a more cost-effective situation. So in order to determine all this together, we need to talk seriously. I'm afraid, for example, if we were to accept this report today as it was for years and years back what Comrade Tudjman said then by the year we would come or I don't know you said by the year we would come and repeat the same story again. My failure to accept this report actually makes sense to encourage us to go talk. And people who aren't able to respond to some kind of requirements of the profession, so if you run some kind of system and you're responsible for his business, you have to have some serious ideas about what to do with that system. I'm worried about the archive, say, which one's there. I know it's on his digitization and what was the goal of making it very little. I know the press outside HINA complains that they can't access that archive. Maybe that's what we need to talk about. Maybe we should protect all that together. And actually, my non-elevating hands will mean we're going to try to talk. Here I think it would be good if we started in a way that the board opened up one debate, and on the other hand, to try to consult the profession and some ideas or if you want the situation as it is in some other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7002	Thank you. Replica, dear Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7003	Thank you. My colleague Lucin said we need to talk. Okay, but then it's the wrong conclusion. The conclusion should go to the cleaners that we should look for instead of the report or on the basis of this report that we are not satisfied with or you are not satisfied with, or someone is not satisfied with the need to look for a plan for future development or restructuring, or as it is already called for to see in which direction it should go. Now, you can move, you can expect HINA from its perspective to give one projection but it has limits simply because that question is already being said here by an agency or an institution of national interest. Therefore, the Assembly should give it the frames within which it will move. But it's not a conclusion then we're going to go to the cleaners now, so we're going to fire people until we find those who are going to say what is said in what we trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7004	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Sime Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7005	Thank you very much. I belong to those people who think they're starting and ending things with people. You know, you have some kind of legality, so it's said that for some good project, you have to have a camera, an idea, money, a plan. No, I say if you have a good man then you don't need anything else because a good and quality man will do all this. If we're going to talk about resolution and resignation requirements now, but we can talk about it that way, you can't see it exactly from the report, but do you know that HINA is losing the market, that HINA has lost a number of users of information they've been selling. Let's just say it's enough for me that someone who loses the market doesn't prepare, doesn't actually organize to keep that market and make a better financial impact, to bear responsibility. Well, we don't have to agree, but I think it is the responsibility of the director, or the man who cares about HINA's business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7006	Since the individual debates, we still have to listen carefully to those distinguished representatives of Nada Turine-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7007	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry that there is no one to greet other than your colleagues who could speak today about this report, or defend this report in front of an institution that is very important to us. I think we all agreed from here that the institution is of public interest and that it should be treated as such. We have heard mostly debates that go all the way in the same direction and with the same aim that this Parliament should make some decisions that will go in the direction of solving the problem, not only of financial nature, because they may be relatively easy to resolve in the context of the proposals that have been made, and above all a proposal relating to the reduction in VAT amount which should be paid, i.e. which pays at the moment HINA, and other media houses, or houses similar to the signs that are on the market, do not pay what is absolutely an irregular, at least an unequal position, and I think that the Government's proposal will come very quickly in this direction to solve this problem. However, the problem, which I think is more important, is the issue of restructuring, i.e. the HINA's work plan for the next period. In fact, from this report, I was saddened to read this report because this report was in some way one of the mourning women as well as some of the presentations of colleagues who were in charge of the previous government's mandate for HINA, that nothing could have been done, that it all went very hard or by no means. But what makes me sadder is that this report reads and the unsatisfaction of those responsible, primarily means the board of directors, as well as the directorship, to get anything off the dead end. This just smells or smells, whatever you want, to be one bit of a failure. There was simply something left down the water because for various reasons it either did not want to or could not. I think it's the former government, because I see that some such futuristic called the HNS from which I come, namely, the HNS really has nothing to do with the 2010-2011 HINA work reports, except maybe for the eight-day government that was formed on 22.12., but I think it's crazy in that way at all. In fact, it is evident that the government that was in charge or the competent ministry was doing something and the colleague here spoke well, the former minister and spoke about his efforts to solve the problem, however the report reads that not enough has been done. That, above all, it was not taken into account that the agency was quality teaming up because it was obvious that human relations and relations between the administration and the employees were not good there, and it was also adequately funded, so that at least that part of the problem would be tried if it had failed to solve this content part. Why hasn't it been solved, why was it so, I think it's meaningless to speak now, but I think the state should recognize a particular interest in ensuring that an independent agency like this works because its dimension is much wider than any other media house, than newspapers, television, radio, whether it's public or private. Journalists who work in HINA, or houses such as HINA, are for us some who have dealt with the media at the top of independent journalism. It should be an honor for everyone to work at HINA. In such agencies, the best-quality journalists in the world, and not to talk about the kind of person and person run by such agencies in European and wider, means in countries outside Europe. What would somehow have been imposed while I was reading this report, if perhaps the weakness of HINA wanted to help some others. It would not be the first case in Croatia if it were working in that direction. I know this may be a bit of a hard word, but I can't help but think that some activity or better said inactivity in HINA just went that way. So here's the report shows that at some point the board of directors didn't work at all, it didn't work because they were unable to make any decisions because it was thought that such a board of directors couldn't make decisions or any proposals made by the administration, or that they were able to make a proposal for the profession, which were debated in this House. I'm asking you, this is where people talked about the portals, and I'm asking you who reads the HINA portal except for their colleagues from HDZ, as they said. We read the HNS portal of HINA, of course, but I'm asking you which of the others reads the HINA portal. This would be an interesting research likely to see who reads HINA's portal of greater interest, except those who are in the system means users in some way even mandatory users let's be so honest'. Why didn't something happen? Something could have been done for sure to make this portal more attractive because all of us who do this job first thing in the morning, most of us, we open a T-portal, we open an INDEX portal, etc. Why don't we open HINA's portal? I'm sure there's a high-quality survey to come up with defeating results on how much HINA is being followed, or its portal. While I was saying that some things were going maybe in the direction that HINA wanted not to be what we want in the report, you have one part where she said HINA was sending offers to public procurement services I guess those services that are wanted, and that's information, and she didn't get in those public tenders and complained. To make it appear that some ministries, or some ministry of ours, are not the ones that wanted the job, are willing to arrange the same business at a higher price with another agency. I mean, I'm not going to prejudge a few things, but with us, it's probably possible that the FIMI media was hired to hire another agency to get a job. HINA complained and got it in that appeal, but I mean it seems to have been trying to seem and even from those who should perhaps even be using such agency services exclusively by HINA that they were trying to solve it differently through someone else for a multiple price. We in HNS and I personally want to believe that all our proposals will go in the direction of solving all these problems in the future, that there will be us and a proposal to cut the VAT on HINA, but also a proposal to fully restructure the agency because HINA you know doesn't need the mercy of any party here, no institutions in this country, HINA needs quality restructuring, modernisation perhaps a new law, and a very likely new director and administrative council. And as for my colleague Mesic's remarks on the discharge of the directorship, that is, the principal, I think the principal is still employed. And if she's busy, she should be at work. And I don't know where she's supposed to be today or where she is if she's not here. Or the board of directors, it doesn't matter. But I think she could have been here, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7008	We've got three replicas on this exhibit. First prized Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7009	I would like to replicate to an esteemed colleague about what I, I tried directly for 2011 to taxfully specify what was tried to do. You can't go into a restructuring plan with a board of directors that stands out in a month because there's no such legitimacy. At the request of HINA's staff board of professionals who created the agency on their request, a public tender for a new administrative council has been opened on their proposal, which would have the legitimacy to accept this restructuring plan knowing that you have no rebalancing and that you do not have sufficient resources in the ministry's budget to build on losses. So you have to go into some kind of rationalization. For the benefit of anyone else that a colleague wanted to point out that perhaps we, not so, tried to do everything in that period. When the Workers' Council challenged the fifth member of the Board of Directors to seek out employees' workers, they agreed on all the internal selection of their representative to implement it themselves and when the administrative council was formed to make it possible to go through the result of a reduction in the loss. So I'm talking about the report. As to whether or not this was supposed to be here, it was supposed to be the administrative council, because this is their report to God. Otherwise, the Ministry of Culture uses the media monitoring services of HINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7010	Second replica, the respected representative of the Sun's Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues, the question of how much is HINA being followed, is what's HINA following everything? See how much local media can reach or local topics reach the national level if, for example, it does not monitor HINA or if it does not monitor HTV? Almost no one. Not to talk about areas like culture. Open any daily paper, what has been most severed in recent years has been most likely a culture. But HINA's following that, too. So let's not talk about HINA's journalists doing this or what or one or the other. HINA monitors all areas of social, political, cultural, sports life; internal, foreign policy, economy, market conditions. So a comprehensive service as it should be. When we talk about users, so here's the information that I'm not going to advertise, but the EPH is going back to HINA with a new contract. So someone needs HINA. It is necessary because it follows differently, unlike some daily or weekly papers, the scene and events in Croatia. You're wondering what the HNS has to do with the report? Well, for God's sakes, you're either participating in power or something happened that we don't have information about. And you wonder where the principal is? It's a complete ignorance of things, so this report is submitted by the board of directors, and there should be someone from the board of directors sitting here, and as it has been over the past few years, I've been repeating someone from the Resar Ministry, and they're not here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7012	A response to the replica of Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7013	Here's a thank you to their colleagues for repeating what they were already saying in the debates. I didn't say HINA wasn't needed, though, but I don't think it's perceived as necessary and that's the problem. That's the problem, and it's quite visible from this report, and let's not hide, or cover our eyes from the truth. I just told HNS with this report can have as many as eight days in 2011 as part of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7014	And the last replica, the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I, my fellow Turin, am not sufficiently media professional and strong and consciously perhaps risking a debate with you who are far more powerful on this matter, but I have heard more than once today, and here I have heard from you, how important HINA is to us. Unmistakable, important, and so much more of those beautiful words. But then it's regretting that it's going to happen with HINA or this or what happened or what happened, and then it kind of looks like it to me when someone's dismembering someone and now the other one comes to comfort him and comes to get his shoulder and you take it well. That's kind of what it looks like to me. And I also read out of your debate so that you regret and warn that nothing had been done before but I didn't realize, I didn't hear, I understood your solution to that problem except that in some way I read, let's now have to replace that principal or this or that and in a way that's somehow seen, and we'll solve it complexly, etc. So I'd like to hear from you one thought in that sense what to do specifically except this shift. I understood that clearly and realized, of course, with that fence that I'm not professional enough to follow this area as well as you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7016	Replication response, esteemed Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7017	So, dear representative, as far as shoeing is concerned, HINA has been shoemen for the last 4.5 years despite all the warnings that she shouldn't be shoeed, right? And who shoeed her I guess you know better than I do because you were... What will be done? It'll only come on the agenda. We're talking about the report today. I am in my debate today and some colleagues in the debates have indicated that some very concrete moves will be possible to withdraw very quickly. As for the principal, look, colleague Glavak said the same thing she shouldn't be here. Look, I don't know who wrote that report. Do you think the president of the board of directors wrote a report? I'm not sure the principal here should at least be present.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7018	We remain to hear the final word on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club will be presented by the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7019	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sure HINA can't and won't go away. It is certain that someone would not get the impression that HINA was not doing her job and that HINA was a catastrophic agency that gave nothing to Croatian society. HINA did it much more professionally than others but didn't work at the level she could work at. The crisis that is happening in HINA is certainly not caused from the outside but from the inside. Dissatisfaction is great. What about HINA? How the staff issues will be resolved is absolutely certain that most will decide. I am more concerned that here, several days in a row from different MPs, has been disputed by the right to their own opinion. Those who hold positions said before HDSSB counterparts about HINA are candidates for the administrative council. Even those who know something about the media should probably keep quiet and speak strictly only about what the report says. Please tell me a debate here in the Parliament that strictly stuck to what was written on some reports. I fully agree with my esteemed colleague Tuđman that Croatia lacks a national information strategy and I agree that the Croatian Parliament should bring this strategy and that it would be much easier to know what should be done with HINA. And HINA needs to be improved. When you say what's going to be done with HINA, no one thinks that a useful agency and a necessary agency and society and state would end it. Mr. Djurovic thinks that what HDSSB is doing and doing some other parties, they're putting together some blurry sets. The question is, is this about the Labourist and the HNS? It's even a naive question. It was supposed to follow HINA and the other media and see that it wasn't, but I'm not going to apologize for that. The pressure on the board of directors has been told before the reason why there is no President of the Board of Directors here. If I was being pressured, I'd be sitting here an hour before that. He needed the president of the council to come and tell who was putting pressure on him and what was going on in HINA. I'm from a party that doesn't do the compliments and doesn't know about the oscillatives. Everything we do is open, nothing in the gloves or behind the scenes. If it's a political cleanup, I wouldn't know how to say it. And all the things that we Croatian laborers were saying about HINA we spoke out of conviction and knowledge and from following HINA's work. Where does it say that the opposition must think the opposite of the position? And what parliamentary MPs first see how they'll think about the position and then, based on the opinion of the position, create their own anti-thinking? I don't think the Parliament makes sense then we Assembly representatives are heads who talk and heads who don't think. The Committee is the same body that gives its opinion and conclusions. The board didn't put political pressure on HINA. It is best that the committee cannot discuss what HINA is doing and what are the solutions. The board didn't replace anyone, the board suggested. He has the right to propose, so he has the right to make a mistake. But the biggest delusion is that we have no right to think and speak here, and we have no right to think differently or think alike or the same as others, just because they're not from our camp. Some discussions have just shown how they do not understand the essence of democracy and how they do not understand the functioning of a public service such as HINA. This is where we talked about the profession. We didn't just talk about HINA's technical report. Here, colleagues involved in journalism from colleague Glavak to colleague Stazic and others who worked either on public media or private media or agencies spoke about what should be done to make HINA better, and HINA should be better and HINA should be Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7020	Thank you very much. We have hereby exhausted the list of applicants for the debate on the report in question. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7021	And finally, the Annual Report of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011, complementing the report from 1 May 2011 to 31 December 2011. Reports were submitted by the Administrative Council of HINA pursuant to Article 14. The HINA Act, but the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011 with an update of the report from 1 May 2011 to 31 December 2011 is not accepted." Who is to this conclusion please raise your hand. Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that this conclusion has been accepted by most votes, 89 in, 5 against and 20 abstentions. And in line with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I am voting on the following conclusion: "It is proposed to initiate the procedure for the resolution of the Governing Council of HINA." Who is asking for this conclusion to raise his hand. Should I do it again? So I see you need to do it again. So, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I am giving the vote: "It is proposed to launch a procedure to resolve the Governing Council of HINA." Who is in favour? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that this conclusion was accepted by most votes, 80 votes for and 24 abstentions, no one was against. If I'm wrong, I repeat, so 89 was for, 24 abstentions and no one against. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7022	We're going forward on the agenda. We move to - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 25 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 26 It is an entirely identical proposal, matter, and accordingly I suggest that we discuss both proposals together. I suggest we go after the working bodies. Do they want to take part? There isn't. You received a report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, she delivered an opinion. We move on to the debate by, in fact, the representatives of the proposer. On behalf of the HDZ Club, who is it? Mr. Joseph Salapic. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, a proposal from the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. Namely, the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Parliamentary Representatives, Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, former members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Chief State Auditor are equally entitled to retire upon termination of their duties under the Pension Insurance Act as well as all other insurance companies of the pension system. In this way, the law currently in force, according to which the President of the Republic of Croatia is entitled to retire under much more favourable conditions than the general system and in relation to the prescribed conditions for the exercise of the right and the determination of the level of pension. The HDZ Representatives Club proposes that the law regulate this proposal to make the President of the Republic of Croatia equal with all other state officials such as parliamentary representatives, judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, former members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Chief State Auditor, and that the President of the Republic of Croatia retire under general pension rules, i.e. according to the applicable positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Although it is pointed out at clubs or committees in the debates that the President of the Republic of Croatia is an institution and as such represents a special background of state authority, the HDZ representative club believes it is true that the President of the Republic of Croatia represents an institution, but the institution is not going to retire, but a natural person, name and last name, president of the Republic of Croatia. With this proposal of the law, we would like to point out in particular that we did not propose the law according to current current President Ivo Josipovic, but we have proposed the law for principled reasons because we believe that if the Croatian Parliament and representatives in the Croatian Parliament have proposed a law which we have also accepted that there are no longer so-called. We believe that the President of the Republic of Croatia is, above all, a politician, a person elected in the elections, as we parliamentary representatives and other officials who have exercised their rights under such conditions of retirement. Thus, we did not want to threaten or call the current current president of the Republic of Croatia by means of the bill. In the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, our proposal for a law is rejected as such, but the reason is that the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials is being drawn up, so we believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is almost certain, we reject this bill for principled reasons and that the law we will soon receive in the Croatian Parliament will now equalise the President of the Republic of Croatia with all other state officials in the Republic of Croatia. The club of HDZ representatives proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7024	Thank you, too. On behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We have proposed the adoption of this law with the same basic resolutions as the other promoter because of two aspects. One aspect is very important to us, it is an aspect of social justice, social justice and equality before the law. All Croatian citizens from the poorest and least influential to the President of the Republic must have equal rights and equal obligations under all Croatian laws. Everyone does their job, while doing their job has some other rights and other obligations, finally as we do here, but when this job comes out, then they must have equal rights for all other Croatian citizens. The second criterion, equally important, is a way of looking at power. The very word power applies to us as a person, a group of persons, political parties, institutions that hold things in their hands, rule and govern and therefore have certain special rights. The word used worldwide is public service, possibly governance, and in both of these cases marks people who manage, coordinate and serve the public. Because they can't and shouldn't have any different rights when they stop serving, there's no reason. The issue of pensions under special regulations is one of the points of the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Labour Programme, which we talked about both in the pre-election campaign and before and after. We're confident we still think that we need to figure out what retirement is, which is conditional on me calling it supplies. Mirovina is what a man pays for his whole life so that under age when he can no longer work he can relatively live decently, which is not the case in Croatia of course. The supply is some kind of right that we've given to someone here in parliament because we thought he might be hit by something because we thought he was particularly good, smart, beautiful, well-deserved or whatever. Those two things need to be made up. If we give someone money, and retirement is money, then we can't give it out of someone else's pocket. We can't give it out of the pockets of those who pay pension funds. From another fund to buy five cars less, build two kilometers of road less and pay those people we think we should pay for. It doesn't matter what category of pensions it says it's special regulations, anyway. None of these pensions under special regulations were made so that the Fund was paid and neither was the pension of the President of the Republic. And that is one of the key reasons why we think that such a pension of the President of the Republic should not survive. With other government officials, it was done and done well. I don't know why it couldn't be done with the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic is an institution, but the Parliament is an institution, and the government is an institution, all of which are institutions. Institutions in which the Croatian people could, should, want to trust. They will trust if people in these institutions behave like citizens of this country. The government is somewhat unsurpassedly rejecting the HDZ proposal under one article of the law, I think no. 17, the HNS proposal under Article 1a does not but does not matter. What the government is saying is we will make a much better, much smarter and much clearer law very quickly, and we have seen this in this Parliament many times already. All right, the ruling and most have the right to do something like that, but right now we want to raise it to public level so that this obligation becomes a real obligation and that the month, two or three, we and the media and voters can ask, hey wait, did you do that, which is now no'? You promised you'd make it smarter, so go ahead. In the government's explanation, there will be a new law, there is still time for mandate. The truth of the term lasts, let's not wait for the last month, because then the passing of that law will be interpreted, and you see their leaving now, and now they're changing the law. Let's do it now while the current president is in full power, shall we? The new law will, of course, be better and smarter. It's back on, the other day someone from this pay phone said that all mind was concentrated in power. All mind always concentrates in power, even this time. Let's use it and do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7026	Thank you very much. He was a representative of the Croatian Labour Club as a proposal. And now according to the Rules of Procedure, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials No. Article 159 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure are an emergency procedure and unites the first and second readings. Amendments to this final draft law may be submitted by the end of the debate. This is Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. Proposal of the law is the same as Law No. The 25th Croatian Labour Club is in the sense of the Rules of Procedure in the first reading. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Now, before we move on to further debate on the bill's proposals, do the workers want to take the floor? I don't think so. Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. The first to debate on behalf of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament was registered by a respected representative of Pedja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7027	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I say a few words, let me remind you of the proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations of Mr Dragutin Lesar, the Proposal for a Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination of the SDP Club, the Proposal for a Law on Labour and Social Courts of the Proposals of the SDP Club and not to list any further. I remind you of all these laws because they were only part of those laws that the opposition in the previous assembly of parliament proposed, but they never found their place on the agenda, they were never in a position to be debated in front of this House. And why is that? Because they were a proposal for opposition, opposition. Such a practice must cease and this debate in the Assembly shows that at least this opposition, pardon this authority at least in that segment will not be the way it was. However, the fact that a law is being debated in parliament does not mean that it must be automatically adopted. We discussed these suggestions today in the pre-election campaign, after which we discussed them many times and in the working bodies of this House, and also when we discussed both the rights and duties of parliamentary representatives. And we all agreed on it more or less. We agreed that it was a principled solution that was not bad and that should be accepted. However, I fear that these two proposals we have today are not there because they wish to regulate the rights and duties of certain bodies, in particular the President of the Republic. I'm afraid they're here because certain club representatives want to sort of populistly pick up points in front of the public. It's their full right. However, this does not mean that these proposals should be adopted. In fact, we here are populist in a law that regulates a whole series of important issues about work, about the obligations and rights of government officials we single out a small segment and we only discuss it. And that's not just any segment but a segment of the right of the President of the Republic. We've heard here several times that the President of the Republic is an institution. He really is. He is an extremely important institution of this state. He's a person who goes out to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, says I want to be president, I want to represent you and represent you. And unlike what respected counterpart Vuljanic said, although he must have the same rights as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia have far greater obligations. Obligations that need to be systematically regulated by law, not only in this one small minimum segment. And that's why I think these bill proposals, and that's what we share from the SDP club, are not good. I believe that these issues must be covered by a full set of amendments to the law or even a proposal for a new law that I will talk about a little later. It is, in fact, an obligation for us who have taken over who have been given the mandate to lead this country to propose these changes in a comprehensive overall way, not only to regulate the question of pensions of the President of the Republic but possibly some other right that the president has after the term of office has ceased. That's exactly what the government was talking about when it didn't give positive opinions on these bill proposals. And precisely because of this attitude that the government has expressed in its opinion, the government has an obligation to propose a new law and here I mean not to amend and supplement the law but to think of a new law. Because the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials has so far been over 20 changes in some ten or more years. So we need a new law that will very systematically and in detail regulate this issue. For this reason, I do not believe that this proposal should be adopted, however, I believe that the Government or the competent ministry that is preparing the draft Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials must also respect what is contained in the proposals of the Law of the SDP Club and of the Croatian Labour Party Labour Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7028	Thank you, Your Honor. At your presentation in front of the SDP club of Croatia, we have two amendments to the incorrect quote. The first is a respected deputy vice president of the House of Honored Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd have a few corrections of incorrect allegations, I believe I'll be able to correct two. First of all, the colleague mentioned, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, that here is the true sign of the mercy of the ruling ones, that opposition proposals and amendments to the law are now being discussed, and he did not mention the fact that the agenda before us is clearly speaking. It's just another bill proposed by the government and nothing but reports that were taken out of the drawer no longer on the agenda. The announced session of 4 weeks we do not have Mr. Vice President to discuss and that there are no proposals of the opposition law we would actually have nothing to talk about and we would have nothing to do in the Croatian Parliament. These are the reasons why these bill proposals are on the agenda today. I am also correcting the incorrect assumption that it is a populist move the opposition wants to collect some political points. Falsely, since the government itself has announced changes to the law in this regard. So this is our attempt to help the government fix the mistakes she's made by proposing laws before what we're proposing. The government has also announced that it will change the law in this direction, so the question is why it has not already done so today. And I expect that tomorrow there will be legislative proposals at the government meeting that we will be able to put on the agenda and have something to do for the next two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7030	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peja Grbin has reported that someone has injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, the Honorable Madam Vice-President has injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and this in Article 209. because what she was talking about especially in the first part of her presentation was not correcting the incorrect allegations, but it was bringing a valuable court on my presentation. And I didn't really say at any point that in this case this debate was about some kind of act of mercy. No, this is about the obligation, the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to discuss all proposals of the law wherever they came from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7032	Thank you, Your Honor. I estimate that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, that it is good that there are different views in the Croatian Parliament and different opinions on the most important things, as well as the pension of the President of the Republic. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7033	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grbin said in his statement that the HDZ Representatives' Club adopted the bill for populist reasons. So I would remind my colleague since you are the new representative in the Croatian Parliament, above all, incorrectly you said the law we proposed according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we expressed our political position and opinion. Let's remind you, we're a bill of law in a abolished so-called ". We accepted privileged pensions, and we proposed that for principle reasons and for reasons of equality and equality, all before the law and the President of the Republic of Croatia be classified as a bill. And I would remind you that your colleagues in the former assembly attended meetings of the Croatian Assembly probably for populist reasons all dressed in white T-shirts when it was the Law on Insemination, left the assembly when they were key laws for Croatia such as the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, such as the Law on the Vulnerty of Legal Acts towards the former Yugoslavia and the like. Well, I'm a colleague. ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7034	Thank you, too. You have expanded the subject, and the respected representative, Peja Grbin, has announced that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And distinguished counterpart Salapic violated Article 209.c. 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because he did not correct the incorrect statement of facts, but my colleague Salapic corrected my court on the reasons for which they proposed a concrete bill. I think as a representative in this House, I have the right to court-valued judgments on the reasons for your actions. That's not what I'm doing. I'm not saying something that's incorrect. I'm saying something that I think I'm saying. And my impression of why you proposed this law is that you proposed it for populist reasons. Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7036	Thank you. I think we have already inaugurated in the Parliament the practice that we are trying to strengthen the future Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It's a good incentive to quickly adopt Rules of Procedure, thank you very much for that. We're going to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7037	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, the SDP has brought to the court that this proposal by the Croatian Labourists is actually a populist collection of points in public. And we have entered the Parliament at this populistism because if populistism is to warn of injustice, then it is a populist requirement. But it's certainly not populism, but populism is actually a challenge to our logical demand. Because in the pre-election campaign, the Kukuriku coalition announced it would correct all injustices, and the country's president, Mr Ivo Josipovic, himself, said there would be a new justice. I trust him and I don't think he's fighting for a privileged pension himself. It is completely illogical that a single man in Croatia would have retired on some other criteria than all other Croatian citizens. They say because he's an institution. What does it matter if this is a society of justice, if all of us and the parliamentary representatives and judges of the Constitutional Court and members of the Government and the President of the State and all the other citizens are to receive a pension according to the same criteria. It was said before that the president has large, many and responsible duties, so I guess his rights are even higher. Let us then determine pensions by the kind of person who has duties and how much he contributes to Croatia. Just work out those criteria. It's actually the hardest thing to be just and it's the hardest to be just if you're in power. In us, the rule of righteousness is most often spoken of, but rarely practiced. If in time practice will catch up, it won't. The neoliberal capitalism that burdens Kukuriku coalition encourages differences, promotes injustice, divides citizens into those first and second-row citizens. From time to time, an illusion of correcting injustice occurs. One of the greatest injustices is the undeserved privilege, and the privileges in societies similar to ours are usually not obtained on the basis of work, value of talent and hard work but functions, belongings, service to the master. In the current escalated Fimi-media affair, we gain further knowledge of what privileges were given along the economic laps. These are privileges on the other side of the law, and they will be hopefully sanctioned in a way that the impertinents who have hacked our money disappears from a cynically no-good smile from their faces. In this proposal, amending the law is a matter of legalised privileges which are obtained at the expense of status, not labour or labour results. Two months or a few days ago, the Croatian Parliament abolished the privileged pensions of MPs, government members and constitutional judges. Some of my colleagues have been abolishing the so-called. Parliament pensions were called demagogy. If the equalising of MPs, ministers, the Prime Minister and the Constitutional Court judges in obtaining pensions with the rest of the citizens of demagogues, then I repeat, we are for this demagogy. I wish as much demagogy as possible. But still in Croatia when it comes to pensions at work is a great injustice. Some 170 thousand pensioners are still receiving a pension not on the basis of previously paid contributions to pension funds but also on the basis of various additions made available to them by the authorities. Can the authorities do that? They may, however, but not in a way that damages pension funds, i.e. the rest of unprivileged pensioners whose pensions are less for the additions of the 170 thousand pensioners to whom the state has the right to give pension allowances but from the budget, not from pension funds. Today, however, we are only talking about a privileged pension with not a small allowance, which is the pension of the President of the Republic of Croatia. I am not talking about the future pension of Ivo Josipovic, but about the future pensions of all Croatian presidents. There is really no reasonable reason why the president of the country alone enjoys a privileged political debt pension, but must share fate with the rest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As much as he has invested in pension funds, his pension must be. Everything else is a new injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7038	Thank you, Your Honor. What the HDSSB Representatives' Club thinks of these bill proposals will say will be respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7039	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. The HDSSB Club supports these two legislative proposals to amend the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, State Officials and Proposals of the HDZ Representatives Club and a practically identical proposal from the Croatian Labour Club. We would not want to politicise this topic or about it because it is actually a financial insignificant matter for the Croatian budget. Whether Croatian citizens will feel some justice in the fact that the Croatian president will have a slightly larger or slightly smaller pension and that is quite doubtful, but since it has been done, that we have actually witnessed the implementation of the populist promise of the SDP government to abolish the privileged pensions for parliamentary representatives, the Constitutional Court judges and members of the government, and these are the highest institutions of the Croatian society and the Croatian state, we agree that and then the last remaining institution, and this is somehow the president of the state being leveled in these pension system rights with these remaining institutions, which are the institutions of the Croatian Parliament, the Government and the Constitutional Court. It is also a meaningful initiative to fully regulate the rights of former presidents through a new legislative proposal, i.e. to fully determine the framework and the way and status of former presidents, i.e. after the end of the term of office. I am quite skeptical of the thesis that has been made on how we are today passing the law not only for the current president or today or in the new government proposal not only for the current president but also for the future presidents. There are few laws in these 20 years that have lasted a year, two or three, let alone that will endure both current and future presidents. God forbid there should be such laws but the current legislative practice in the Republic of Croatia has shown that most legislative solutions do not withstand any mandate, let alone 5, 10 or 20 years in the future. So I am quite convinced that by accepting or not accepting this proposal or proposal that will emerge from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and that this proposal, when we adopt it, will withstand more than the term of office of President Josipovic, and that very soon then, in the time that comes, the frameworks and laws and relations and the system that we have been witnessing for the past 20 years will change again. Because if anything is the Croatian state from its draft to this day, it has shown an exceptional legitimate instability and the inability to keep one established framework in anything through one longer period. It was precisely because the ruling structure was always exposed and very fragile by the thrusts of various stakeholders, so all the solutions from which it was a segment, and mainly from pension insurance, from the pension insurance system were very often changed as it was in some times appropriate to certain groups. Mr Peja Grbin presented to the Club of Representatives of the SDP his court that this proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labours that the pension of the President of the Republic is equal to the conditions for obtaining a pension of representatives, members of the Government or members of the Constitutional Court that it is a populist attempt to collect political points. It is my court of law, so I will now present it, that this is one attempt to correct the situation with the President of the Republic, i.e. the situation that he remains the only institution that has been excluded from this legislative framework to resolve the pension that is now defined for the representatives, the members of the Constitutional Court and the members of the Government, and I am sure that even the current solution will not survive for a long time. And it's going to change. Because we brought him in with our own pulsism. When it comes to the fact that pensions will be made from the beginning to the end, from the President of the Republic to the last citizen of this country will be equal to what they have been paying so far into pension funds, and that is demagogy. Because how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia are currently retired and have the amount of pension according to what they have singled out throughout their working life? So let's not tell each other stories. What is the proportion of Croatian citizens of a million and 200 thousand pensioners currently retired from full-time employment based on contributions related to the whole period of their work? So that's why we have a system of generational solidarity. As far as the President of the Republic is concerned, as far as the President of the Republic is concerned, we have no objection either to the adoption of such a proposal or if the Government draws up a comprehensive proposal that would give us the privileges that we see in the case of the current former president are not in line with the real state of Croatia and Croatian society. I wish Croatia was as rich as Switzerland or Germany, that GDP is 40,000 euros so that our former presidents have villas, limos, personal guards and pensions ten times the average. But it is not now the state of this moment and the state of this society and it is not just. And that's why we support this proposal, and that's why we all voted in the end in order to cut back on the MPs. As a result, we will probably all agree that even former presidents cannot enjoy those privileges that neither the president nor former presidents of a much richer country than the Republic of Croatia can afford. So let us try, but also on the other hand, we should not even be trapped just because we are in power or in opposition and speak in this Croatian Assembly and further make it difficult for the public about the Croatian Parliament that nothing is going on here, that this Parliament has nothing to discuss, that there are few points of the agenda because it also does not correspond to the truth. Well, then we can look around and see how many of us are in the assembly and how interested we are in the debates that are happening in the Croatian Parliament and how much individual discussion we are having about it. Therefore, the HDSSB's representatives' club supports them as regards these drafts of the law, and we will also support them if the government very quickly adopts a full package of measures that would resolve the status of presidents, or former presidents, and it is in line with the real state of Croatian society and we will support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7040	Thank you very much. Your Honorable representative has been reported to be a correction of an incorrect allegation. It's Honorable Representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djurovic made a lot of contradictory statements and it's hard to correct them all now, but he said one that I'm going to look back on, which is that it was a populist promise to the Kukurik coalition to abolish privileged pensions. This colleague Djurovic was not a populist promise, but it was simply the Plan 21 of the Kukurik coalition where we told Croatian citizens what we were going to do. And when we took responsibility for the management of the state, then we abolished our privileged pensions for constitutional judges and government members and our parliamentary deputies. It would've been populist if we'd promised it without doing it. We did it. And I am also convinced that the government will soon exit what has been announced with an amendment to the law, where both other rights and obligations of the President of the Republic will be regulated and his pension, and I am convinced that you will vote for this proposal as you voted for the proposal when it was proposed by the Law on the Elimination of Preferred Pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7042	Thank you, Your Honor. We have exhausted the list of registered debates by clubs in the Croatian Parliament. We're going to a ten-minute debate on a single representative. The first in line is the Honorable Vice-President of the House Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. And this is a very good newspaper in the Croatian Parliament, no more reservations. No more persuasion. It's all written on display. Here's a good one. I'm saying no more trouble, so if you're going to discuss Vice President, go ahead. ... No, you're still on the job. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7043	Thank you. Dear Vice President. So these two proposals I would say that Labourists and HDZ met at the same point of pulsism and then competed in this populist who would be louder. The HDZ also shows an envious dose of hypocrisy. Why hypocrisy? So I ask them, would you dare ask for something like this for President Tudjman? I don't think we'd dare think, let alone write a bill. When President Tudjman unfortunately became seriously ill by acting as president, they did not dare say he was seriously ill. The whole nation knew. It's the law of conduct I don't know how to replace in the event of the temporary prevention of the President of the Republic. Everyone in Croatia knew that the president was unfortunately dying but didn't dare admit it publicly either. And in order to dare write down a bill under which, at the end of the term of office, the President of the Republic would not have the right to retire, I would like to see who from the HDZ Club can raise his hand and show that courage. Now why the populism. The President of the Republic is not just a person. The President of the Republic is an institution like an anthem, a flag, a coat of arms. And our relationship with the President of the Republic shows our relationship with the state because it's one of the institutions. So as we treat the President of the Republic as an institution, we treat both the anthem and the flag and the coat of arms. The President-in-Office of the Republic, if he wins the second term, will end at 63 years of age and will be missing two years until his full pension. He's a professor at two colleges and he can go back to a high school job to continue his scientific university career. The next president doesn't have to be a professor at two colleges. It can also be a much younger person, so it can win a term of office at the age of thirty-five when it's 35. And he's been two terms, and he's 45 years old, and he's on the labour market. That's where you'd send the President of the Republic to the labour market. The Poles had a president elect a president who was a welder in the bootlegger, but the Poles didn't think to bring him back as a welder because the Poles held to their country and to their president. I think it needs to be that way without a sense of national dignity to propose a bill like this, it has to be without that feeling, closer to it, or it has to be so open that the bill shows animosity to a certain person which may be more likely. We don't like this, we don't like it, we don't like it, which is very important, but let's make a mistake for it however we can because we don't love it because it doesn't come from our political option. What is the pension of the President of the Republic? Like maybe two, three gross salaries for a clerk like that, maybe two would be enough. So instead of two clerks, we have a decent salary for the President of the Republic. You have multiplied the number of officials amazingly, and let's not lie if you didn't propose this I wouldn't have told you so that you hired Buljubusic, Bhubusic, but now the president of the Republic would have abolished his pension. Now you'll be saving on it. You didn't save on the Buljubsics, no, with a hand and a hat, as long as it takes, and the president's hat never, and with his hand sometimes when you get a chance like you just took. You know I understand the need, we're all politicians acting within parties, I understand the need to like people, but there must be measures. This desire to like you shouldn't go too far or too far across the border when we become completely insensitive to national symbols and values, because what you suggested as if you said how much sewing a flag costs, let's pass the law so that the flags don't hang for national holidays because then the wind rips them off and it costs too much. We'll save on that. That's not what you're saving yourself on. Through the institution of the pension of the President of the Republic, we show how much we respect or disrespect this institution. I'm not up for it. I'm not for any president regardless of which political parties came from which political options he must, after his term has passed, return to the world of work. That's not what I'm up for. And if President Tudjman had come back to life, he wouldn't have been going back to the Institute of History. He wouldn't be for it because he was directly elected President of the Republic. So let's choose to appreciate it, let's choose to respect it. No matter how much you like President Mesic or President Josipovic or not. But a little bit of it, a little bit of it, a little bit of animosity, a little bit of pulsism, it won't do you any good. It's insignificant money, completely insignificant to the state, but it shows how much we appreciate ourselves, how much we appreciate our people, how much we appreciate our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7044	Thank you, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first replica is a respected representative of Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7045	My colleague Stazic said one sentence that I will analyse later, but I must now react that we are without a sense of national dignity as soon as we have suggested it. I mean it's a mean sentence, it's an offensive sentence, it's a characterization of one party without precedent, at least in this part of the assembly. Another claim that we show animosity to the person concerned. I mean, I wouldn't comment, we didn't bring this law down to a personal level, and it's not about animosity towards the person concerned, and we're not going to discuss it at that level to discuss specific people. Dragutin Lesar proposed a reduction in privileged pensions seven years ago, the SDP did not support it, so we were populists even before we started. The populistism that we are now in favour of this bill has existed since the beginning of the party, it is not populism. We really honestly think it's a matter of lifting privileged pensions in a country where citizens dig in garbage cans. For reasons why HDZ has proposed this bill we do not enter and I would not dare say that it is for populist reasons. They know why they proposed, and they know why they didn't support it seven years ago when they were able to support it and when they were able to end their privileged pensions, and they didn't want to. And if we were to act differently if someone else was president, it certainly would. And if Franjo Tudjman were Emperor Joseph I, anyone with a privileged pension, we would do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7046	Thank you, too. Replica response, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic, Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7047	Comrade Vuksic, you have said a lot of inaccuracies in your replica. You're saying that seven years ago, Lesar proposed such a law and that the SDP was against it. The SDP simply could not be for or against because the law never came to debate. Why didn't he come to the debate? Ask your HDZ colleagues, but not the SDP and not me. So you don't know what the SDP's position would be if there was a debate, you don't know it all together. You're saying that because it's convenient for you to talk. Privilege pensions. It is very nice to suggest that you abolish the privileged pensions and abolish what you are when you are so small a party that you are not in power and that you have no chance of ever coming to power, so you can deal with populism. The SDP when it came to power has abolished not all privileged pensions, the pensions of parliamentary deputies and government members. And you know how many categories of privileged pensions there are, I don't know if you know. 14. ... 14. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And when it comes to these pensions, I've always been privileged to do so, for one thing. Let's get them out of the pension fund and let the state decide who they're going to give a pension to, who they won't. The President of the Republic would certainly be a person to whom he would add to his pension, certainly, regardless of which options, from which party he came because I would not make fun of that institution and that function and would not collect cheap populist points on which you will ultimately not collect, I assure you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7048	Thank you very much. The next replica to the main presentation of counterpart Stazic is the respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President, Mr. Stazic. I raised my line on purpose so you could answer me whatever you want. First, you were late for your debate, the chairman said that you were losing your right to speak, so he explained that it was a new democratic standard that we couldn't screw up anyone when it says who's next, then you came in later, you got the right to say it. As for the late President Tudjman, no one, for one single reason, was able to compare with the late President Tudjman, Franjo Tudjman led Croatia at the time of the creation of independence and independence of Croatia. And to say that our bill is hypocritical because we've passed your law, and our club is to say that all politicians should be left without privileged pensions. We said that we respected Ivo Josipovic, and that we proved that we respected him, Mr Ivo Josipovic was a representative in the Croatian Parliament, he voted against the deblockation of the agreement with Slovenia, against the arbitration agreement, and signed an accession agreement with then Prime Minister Kosor for Croatia's entry into the EU. About how much the HDZ appreciates Ivo Josipovic, we have shown that act. We respect the President of the Republic of Mr Ivo Josipovic, but we have proposed for principled reasons, not for populism, for hypocrisy, that the President is a politician, that he is elected in the elections as we MPs and that, by this principle, he exercise the right to retire as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When we discussed the abolition of privileged parliamentary pensions at the HDZ Club, many letters came from our citizens that we might be ashamed to discuss our pensions as representatives while people in Croatia have nothing to eat. Now, that was a demagogy, which you immediately included in the Parliament's agenda the pensions of parliamentary deputies, which brought to the stage of shame the Croatian Parliament and many colleagues who were ahead of retirement, former representatives who came to me when I spoke on behalf of the club and you said well, because we colleagues who deserved their parliamentary mandate and their pension, some by 7 terms, some less or more, when we discussed everything, and here we are principles and them. And we will repeat, we respect Mr Ivo Josipovic, but in principle we have proposed the law to be the same for all because all laws in Croatia must be equal for all, regardless of who the name and last name is. And the parallel you pulled that we had Franjo Tudjman alive would have said to me like this: "You should not have proposed this law because Ivo Josipovic comes from the ranks of the SDP and gets support in his SDP campaign." And I'll do it again, remember, we respect Mr. Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7050	We're going to have a discussion. I'm sorry. ... All right, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We need to be a little principled. We're going to discuss each other further. Dear Representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I object to the bill of principle. Personally, I believe that the abolition of this right of the President of the Republic is directly affecting his independence of work. In fact, I believe that all the readings that receive elected representatives from the people, and in particular the President of the Republic, have a particular purpose for why they are so. And it's not just in Croatia, it's in the whole world. All the fees, i.e. the readings received by the President of the Republic, are so that he can be fully independent in this part of making decisions under any pressure to think at all about his existence, in this case of retirement, which he will do after the term of office has ended. And not to let him think as soon as he sits in the chair about what he will do and how he will provide himself with the future when the mandate is over. This is one of the purposes of conditionally speaking privileged, but also greater fees that are received everywhere in the world and parliamentary representatives and we get much more compensation than the average salaries in the Republic and so is the President of the Republic. Therefore, I am against the suspension of one of the items of conditional privilege, i.e. higher benefits of a preferential pension to the President of the Republic as an institution. He acquired this right because he was elected from the citizens and he is the only person in the Republic of Croatia directly elected by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think it is not good to split up the institutions of the Republic of Croatia or relativize the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. Recently, three or four days ago, a cartoon came out in one media where we Assembly representatives are all in a row from first to last marked as a massive waste of Planet Earth Day. I don't mind that day at all, everyone characterises what they want. But I think we all need to be worried together if anyone thinks to characterize us as a bulky waste. Our function, among other things, is to safeguard the dignity of ourselves, our positions from it because we are chosen by the citizens of the Republic and our position is to preserve the integrity and integrity of the President of the Republic. And that's one of our functions. And that's why I object to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7052	Thank you very much. Your honorary representative, four replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's take it in a row. The first for replica was signed up by a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Blažekovic, in fact, I have come to express my satisfaction because I still thought that we are rare here in the Parliament who think for principle reasons that we should not abolish the president's pension regardless of whether it is proposed by the HDZ club, laborists or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So I belong, I know there are several of us, I belong because I think it's guarding the president's institution. If you want us to choose this president in 10 or 15 years, whether we're still going to be elected directly, I think it's one of the symbols of the state, of the nation, and that it should actually stay the way it is. But what worries me is that in a democratic society, all people are the same before the law, and even the presidents, regardless of their merits, politics will not determine the merits of a particular president, it will make history. So to raise one president better, worse, worse, and then this doesn't need to be taken down because he was better than this, and this needs to be because he's worse than the other, it's a disaster. That democratic society doesn't know. Not when it comes to presidents, but when it comes to citizens, they have to be the same before the law. And when, as a politician, they go by special law when they regulate their rights, they must all be the same. But the president is an institution, and we have to take care of that. So, symbol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7054	Thank you very much. No response to the replica, thank you very much. The next replica wishes to be expressed by the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7055	An esteemed colleague who has the privilege, and what right does he have his reason? That's a fundamental question. Is this about a privilege or a right that is reasonably set up? We had prime ministers who had opened firms after the end of their mandate – one called NIVA, and those companies were able to do business because their owners achieved some of the contacts they served during the term of office. The second prime minister had no need to start a company called ISA – Ivo Sanader because he already had enough FIMI media and all state and public companies and I know what he was pulling the money from. A law equal to anything, privileges should be abolished. Well, then, why don't you take out the defense attorneys' privileged pensions if it's the same for everyone? No, I don't. Well, of course it doesn't occur to you or anyone else. It's not about privilege either. It's about reasonable law. If someone died defending the homeland and being incapable of the world of work, did he owe his country enough for her to take care of him? Well, it is. So what are we gonna leave him on the road? Well, we won't, so we won't. Well, we're human, we're human, and we're people. And that's why saying that this is actually about equating everyone before the law is a pure flossula. It's a floscula, it's not worth anything, it's not worth two Junes of that sentence. This is about reason alone, whether we treat one problem rationally, or if we're going to act populistly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7056	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7057	I'd just like to point out that whenever I spoke of privilege, I said under quotes because that expression is used, but in quotes. It's clearly about the right extra right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7058	Thank you very much. The next replica wishes to be expressed by the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7059	How would the president lose his independence, as he said earlier, by abolishing a privileged privileged pension? I guess the president's gonna think about what he's gonna do after his term. Why don't you have a firm after your term? What's wrong with that? It's only bad if it works second in the way my colleague Stazic mentioned earlier. Do you think the president should deal with that opinion for his term of office only on what he will do after he is no longer president? So does Croatia need such a president? Do you think that's what President Tudjman was doing, President Mesic was doing, that's what President Josipovic was doing? I'm sure they're not dealing with those thoughts. We don't think so badly of these presidents and we don't think anything bad about Mr. Josipovic. And whether someone will see us as a waste global or any other matter depends not on whether we have a privileged pension but on how we work, what we stand for and how we treat the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7060	Thank you, too. Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7061	Since we are in different political options, we do not fully understand each other, and we do not understand each other, obviously my colleague did not understand what I was talking about. Yes, I didn't exactly tell Mr. Josipovic, I didn't tell Mr. Tudjman I wasn't talking about anything at all, I was talking about the institution of the President of the Republic. I remain on the stand that all compensations are material, all rights arising from the work of a particular function and we can now go into details, from residence, offices, secretaries, cars, whatever you want, all these rights are there so that a certain civil servant in this case the institution of the President of the Republic of Croatia can fully carry out his work independently. And that you wouldn't happen to think about whether at some point he'd buy a certain house, what you're saying is that you don't know what this is about right now, that you didn't notice. For a period of 2 days or 48 hours, how long this law lasted so that it could be done to ensure the future. This cartoon that came out and when I mentioned it again I didn't realize it was tied up and I was talking about it for the reason that our obligation is to preserve the dignity of parliamentary representatives and all other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It is one of our own obligations as elected parliamentary representatives. I think that would be all for now. There'll be another one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7062	Thank you. Time's up, Your Honor. The next replica is the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said that everywhere in the world, former presidents as heads of state institutions have been privileged to retire to death, and so, it's not simple. Here's our neighbor, Slovenian, doesn't have it, doesn't have it. He's got his pension and some kind of supplement that the state gave him because he deserved it as president. But a colleague also said that such attempts were made by the institutions. Institutions do not part with the removal of subsequent privileges, I will say the privilege no matter how harsh the word sounds. Institutions split up so they don't do their jobs, do the work that ends up in court, which then deals with the BOOK, and that's embarrassing to all of us. That's why cartoons tell us we're a huge waste because politicians end up in the USKOK and court. Not because they got a pension, they didn't get a pension, because they stole it, they made them go to court, and then it falls on all of us. And he's falling on our backs because we're silent, because we're acting on the party path in Parliament, and we're not voting on our consciences, we're talking in the hallway, and we're voting here as our party says.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7064	Thank you very much. ... If you want to continue, you have more. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I understood you stopped. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7065	Thank you. A colleague said something I didn't say, which is that all the outside presidents that the presidents of other countries all have privileged pensions is simply not true. I'm going to point out once again, I think that all of these salaries that we have bigger all of us are incomparably larger, 2.5 times larger than the average of the Republic of Croatia, and everywhere in the world are so that we can make independent materially independent decisions that we make, and they're of interest to all citizens. And just one more example to tell you. For reasons not to happen to please after leaving Parliament with their knowledge, knowledge, ties with the Dutch parliamentarians after leaving Parliament have a 100% fee on a 6-year period. For a period of 6 years, and that is only to ensure that their knowledge, ties, information obtained through the work of a parliamentary representative would not potentially be traded conditionally. That's why and that's why everything, my principled reason why I'm talking about this topic in this way. And I don't think a pension should be abolished by the President of the Republic under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7066	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and the answers to the replica. We're moving on with individual debates. Honorable representative Mladen Novak has the right to debate for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Whatever we say has become an established practice, on this side it is called immediately the label that it is about populistism. If we're talking about what we said in the election campaign, we're the populists, but if you're saying in this Assembly speaker the same thing you said in the election campaign, then that's principle. Well, obviously, you don't have the same criteria and that populism is a little closer to you than to us. The proposal for this law has not been mentioned at any time that it is related to the existing president, Mr. Josipovic. You're on your side, I don't know who right now, I think you, Mr. Vice President, have referred the question to your HDZ colleagues, would you go with this bill of law if President Tudjman were still alive? I don't know the answer to that, but at the same time, I'm asking myself if you would go with that same proposal, or if the proposal that passed two months ago when the pensions of parliamentarians and everyone else in that story came together, would the president of the state be exceptional if Mr. Milan Bandic had passed? In this case, Mr. President of the State would go in the package as a function, i.e. to be precise former president of the state or president of the country to which the mandate has passed, the term of office would expire. Someone mentioned that we must also take care that the president is a man who is elected directly to the elections. No need to remind, you all know both mayors and mayors and mayors of the municipalities are elected in direct elections and we all feel there is no basis for them to have any privileges. It is said here that a relationship to the president is a relationship to the state. I'm just reminding you that this isn't about the president's relationship to the former president or the man who retired. He's not going to retire as I already think a colleague from the HDSSB said, he's not going to retire the president's office, he's going to the person. Among other things, it was found to be a relationship to national dignity. Well, in my opinion, this is not a relationship to national dignity, even more I can say that the relationship to national dignity is a relationship to the Croatian postal bank or Croatia's insurance. In my opinion, it's a relationship to national and dignity and national property. Since so many times we've been imputed to populistism, don't you have the impression that the mention of the Buljudasic case is pulsism, don't you have the impression that the mention of defenders in this story is the same cheap rejuvenation and that it's pulsism and the most common demagogy. In my opinion, demagogy is a comparison with the president or the election of presidents in Poland. Does anyone really think that here one in Croatia, since whoever goes to the presidential elections has a sincere real chance only if there are strong political parties behind it. Do you really think that in the next election, you're going to propose a metal-tool, machine-tool, or something like that? The comparison with the situation and the election of the Polish president is really inappropriate and I think it's also about populism and cheap demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7068	Thank you very much. Now you've asked me a lot of questions, and I can't answer you because I'm holding a session. But that's why we have one correction to an incorrect quote and two replicas. First correction. Dear Representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7069	A colleague said one false allegation, which is that both mayors, mayors and mayors were elected by direct elections, that is correct, but it is incomparable with the election of the President of the Republic because the President of the Republic is one of the only elected of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7070	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. What article was injured, are you sure? ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have to tell me which article was injured. And first I ask you, are you sure the Rules of Procedure got hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7071	And look, if someone corrected the wrong quote and then said it was...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7072	No, no, which article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7073	This Regulation shall enter into force on the
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7074	Article 209 is not injured, Article 209 gives you the right to state which article is injured. That's all. Study the Rules of Procedure and then report back. Come on, thank you very much. Replica, colleague Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7075	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know how my colleague meant it, but I admit that I'm a populist and I admit that what we're doing is populism. If it's populist to say what's holding people back and what I hear from my voters every day, at the market, at the coffee shop, on the road, at the bus stop, on the bus when I go home, and that's what I'm saying here, I admit I am a populist and I'm glad I'm a populist. Why, if the situation is already such that the president would not be independent if he couldn't expect such a pension because God knows what he could do afterwards, he has his own relationships and so on. So the prime minister has more connections and more options to decide why not leave his pension to the prime minister. His influence is significantly higher. Or the influence of, say, the first deputy prime minister who, of course, has a huge impact.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7076	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7077	So you should give him a pension, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7078	Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7079	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7080	The reply to the replica, dear colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7081	Thank you very much. You mentioned pulsism, which is why you agree to the expression "pulsism". It's definitely in the entire debate to conclude that populism is mentioned here in an extremely negative context, and that's why I reacted. And as for that correction of the wrong allegation, I apologize for not being, I don't have enough of that sitting experience in these assembly benches that I could react fast enough, high enough, but the first sentence of the gentleman was – it's true what you said. So correcting the wrong quote really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7082	Your colleague Novak is responding to one replica. You can't answer the wrong quote. A little study of the Rules of Procedure he is not complicated, he will help you in your work. I understand you're a new agent, but it's not a big philosophy. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7083	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Novak, you were talking about national dignity. As far as I'm concerned, national dignity means defending your people, protecting the dignity of that people when you're both out and abroad. As for personal pensions or pensions, I would do the most if we could get our pensions in effect. So, when we stop working age from deciding whether we deserve that pension or not. It bothers me more that the president does not represent all the Croats he swore would represent or say there would be justice for everyone. It bothers me that our president is deepening the gap between the Croats with his statements, and one of them is evidence when a highly educated lady is not going to the competition because President Josipovic has just said that she cannot pass because she is a black shirt. It bothers me a lot more and worries than the president's pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7084	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7085	As far as national dignity is concerned, national dignity is definitely something that must exist, which all citizens of this country must appreciate and respect. And I absolutely did for that, and that's why I said that in the context of the debate on the presidential pension, the mention of the defender is absolutely inappropriate. The mention of cases like Buljubašić or I don't know what a man's name is is, in my opinion, inappropriate and at the same time mentioning national dignity in that same story. That's just what I was talking about. Thank you very much, and I'm leaving you. I'm going to the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7086	Thank you very much. Here's 13.20 hours. We don't have any more time for a 10-minute debate, so we're going to announce a break now because even after that, we have on behalf of the promoter, so we can't finish this topic until the break, so we're going to continue it at 3:00. The next turn is Honorable Representative Zlatko Tušak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7087	My colleagues and colleagues continue to discuss each other individually. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, a unified debate. Next for an individual debate representative Mr. Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7088	Thank you, Vice President. Otherwise I'm... Otherwise, I thought in my discussion it would be quite brief, so it could have been my discussion before the break, but no matter what, nothing important has changed. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Why did I report this specifically for the discussion especially for the discussion although I did not intend to discuss this item of the agenda because I was offered some discussions primarily in the part where it was said that lawmakers without a sense of national dignity propose such a law and that practically by proposing such a law, collecting is a populist point to the public. What I must specifically say is that in no case is our initiative in front of the Croatian Labour Party Labour Party. We're clearly defined in our program, and I'm going to be in that section quoting a part of our program so there's no doubt about it. "The Peace Fund should exclude all pensions that are not the result of paid contributions. After an emergency procedure to revise all groups with privileged pensions." So the position of the Croatian Labour Party was all groups of privileged pensions. One of the groups is a clear and presidential pension. We were when there was a debate on the privileged pensions of MPs in the Croatian Parliament we then made it clear that everyone should practically end this privilege. Why? Because we have a view that pension rights should be realised on the basis of the contributions paid that are in the fund, and if it is necessary to give some or some groups some additional credit, then it should go from some other sources of income and that this should be clearly broken down. That is why today's discussions that have tried in some way forced the Croatian Labourists to collect the basis of that particular point in any case are rejected by counting that those groups of 13 preferential pensions will in some way continue to be our initiative to get them out of the pension system and clearly that this is not about the president, because in any case we respect and appreciate the institution of the president of the Republic of Croatia, he is the president we especially appreciate and in no way we thought it would be individualized with the current president, is it primarily about a certain duty that must be leveled with all rights, practically achieve equality of all citizens in the Republic before the law. When we talk about a certain dignity, then some should return to the dignity of the pensioners in the Croatian Pensions Insurance Office 200 with an average pension of 2 thousand 150 kuna and that part of the pensioners below that average and how they are simply hard to survive the end. Mostly in the part where we say that part of them got that pension and below average for full-time work. Clearly, we Croatian Labourists are against the fact that, on the basis of one mandate or on the basis of certain things, certain privileges are determined, and in this case it is a pension that is far greater than what average pensioners have. And in any case, it's a matter that ordinary citizens are kind of being stabbed and disturbed. Clearly, we are aware that these are not financial amounts that can possibly help this other group, but it is primarily a matter of some justice, of justice, of all being equal before the law. And here in that part, I won't go any further, and we think that this move could only have positive effects on the citizens, and you could see that it's quite the citizen's way to appreciate whether in any case citizens, especially those who are hard to survive in any case, are bothered by a certain privilege that they have, even if it is the privilege of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7089	Thank you. At your presentation, we have one replica, representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7090	Dear colleague, you have also mentioned the destruction of national dignity that has been honored by the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nenad Stazic, and let's say that marketing with national treasures is not a violation of national pride and dignity. Bringing yourself into the position of a servant is not destroying dignity. The destruction of national dignity and populism is actually a struggle for righteousness by knowing that there is no old and new justice as said in a pre-election campaign. We know there's justice or there's no justice. In this proposal, we were guided by equality and nothing else. Everything else is a setup and to use Mr. Stazic's dictionary to clean up the pulsism.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7091	Thank you. In front of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go. Excuse me in front of the Minister's Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7092	What we said was that the government announced that very quickly in the parliamentary procedure it would refer to a whole bill that would regulate the presidential pension and also the rights of MPs, especially when we talk about the right to return to the workplace from where the MPs came from. So very soon you'll have it on the benches. And to Mr. Zlatko Tušak, only one small correction is not to tell the incorrect allegation but to correct the fact that when we talk about special pensions or pensions under a special law they are already paid out of the budget because of the 35 billion kuna we need for pensions 21 billion for pensions under the Pension Insurance Act. Let's collect somewhere around 17, 18, 19 billion, so all these other pensions are financed from the budget. And what we are going to show very quickly is a transparent system where you will see exactly how much and in these special pensions there is part of a pension that is earned by work and separation into the pension system. Examples are academics, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts where most academics retire with full-time internships and full-time years of life. So they deserved a pension under the Pension Insurance Act, and then the state adds the part that we call retirement allowance, meaning the supplement because you were at the academy and that part needs to be financed from the budget. So very soon we will show open cards in this field, so these special pensions are already being financed from the budget, not being financed from the contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7093	Thank you. We're done with an individual discussion. On behalf of the promoter, would anyone like to hear from you? If not, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7094	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The 26th is the next legislative proposal we will come forward with. The legislator is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that 22 MPs voted in favour, 83 against and 5 MPs were abstentions, so no Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials proposed by the HDZ Representatives Club was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7168	We move to a new agenda point - Proposal for a law on the public use of Croatian language, first reading, P.Z. No. 10 Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Party of Work. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You've received reports. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? You do not wish to further explain the proposal. All right. Does a government official want to take a word for it? There's no one here. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7169	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the public use of Croatian language, and this government was manifested exactly as we Croatian Labourists expected, negatively. It intrigued us to admit that the government would explain the refusal, and it explained it recklessly, superficially, even underpricedly not to the Laburists but to the language, and then to the citizens of Croatia. In the opinion of the Government, it proposes to its majority not to adopt the proposal for a law on the use of Croatian language but also because of the provision of Article 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia found that in the Republic of Croatia there is an official use of the Croatian language and a Latin letter. It is prescribed, says the government, and is signed by Zoran Milanovic, that a second language and Cyrillic or any other letter can be introduced in certain local units along with the Croatian language and Latin letter. This is what Zoran Milanovic tells the Constitution established the obligation of all authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government to use the Croatian language and the Latin letter. Leading to the government's logic in Croatia is hundreds of excess laws. For example, the excess laws that regulate media freedoms because of media freedoms seem to me to be the Constitution in Article 38, but in addition to that general, and clear and unequivocal provisions that all of the constitutions of all democratic states except, of course, Great Britain, and the most concrete and rigid American constitution in which the media is initially said to be free. All countries regulate special laws such as the media. Many systematically regulate and use their national, normised, literary language, which serves as a model and whose norms are taken as proper and universally mandatory in the media, schools and administration. In addition, the use of Croatian standard language except for traditional values, except for the preservation of national identity, except for the preservation of our Croatian culture, defense of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7170	My colleague, my colleague Vuksic, I apologize, we will extend your time. But respected MPs and MPs, it is our honor to welcome the 14th generation of the War School "Ban Josip Jelačić". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7171	What does labour rights have to do with the use of Croatian language now? Only those who do not live in reality and those who do not know the problems of their country's citizens can ask the question. In an increasing number of companies in Croatia, they communicate mainly in foreign language, the language of the owners of the company, German, English or Italian, for example. You may have noticed that ads in the media looking for workers for certain jobs are published in a foreign language. Business communication in enterprises is carried out in a foreign language. At meetings of the boards and supervisory boards, it is not spoken in Croatian but in foreign language. In such companies, workers and the decision to quits are obtained in a foreign language. The judges in Croatian courts will have to speak to everyone but the Croatian language. Of course, the laws on primary and secondary education, the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on a litigation procedure states that it is a Croatian official language, but there are no measures for the implementation of the basic constitutional provision on the language, nor are sanctions for those who do not respect those provisions. The only public media in Croatia does not respect the constitutional provision on Croatian language. The Croatian language is neither used in the official documents of the Parliament nor in the official documents of the Government. On Croatian TV at the time of humanitarian action is making a call center. On HTV, they constantly summon the celebrity instead of famous and famous. In Vecernjak, the government advertised that it would establish a national company, cro steel, instead of Croatian steel. Minister Cobankovic opened cro fish, and at the time of the bird flu he introduced bird monitoring and euthanasia of domestic poultry instead of surveillance and easy death. No more happening all are events. The headhunters work in Agrokor and other companies, you know what a last-minute trip is? Probably not because tourist agencies never advertise it in Croatian. In the national daily list, the title is more than 5 columns of the new view of the city center. Croatia is sending, they have repeated themselves 100 times for the parliament speaker non-paper, not the informal document. Sanader announced that the office was opening one stop shop, not the office all in one place that had never worked. The state-owned company Transmitters and links start with the sale of pay TV programs – real language discards. He's not moving, he's starting with what? Payed either by a subscription or by a program. After the break-in on the stage will announce the rating was a sentence in a newspaper. The people, even though they had their own free constitution, until they use their own language, stand further from developmental opportunities than even the wildest people who speak freely in their own language. What it means to treat the language means to think of what it means, incorrectly, roughly, untruely. The language columnism that threatens Croatia today is far more subtle and immeasurably effective than that of not so long ago physical and current economic oppression. If language is the basic definition of every nation, let's keep that provision. And we can keep it if we speak Croatian literary language in official public places. This law regulates the use of Croatian language, but clearly does not interfere with language standardisation. This is the work of experts who, by the way, almost unanimously supported the initiative of the Croatian Labour Labour Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7172	Thank you. Mr Vuljanic's representative appeared on behalf of the proponent for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Why did we propose this topic? First of all, it is not the first time this topic has been found in the Croatian Parliament, this is the second time. In the previous assembly, the government rejected the proposal with almost the same explanation as this government. I suppose there is something in these arguments, but I would like to say that we are here in this place where we are in principle protecting Croatian sovereignty, our ancestors here spoke about Croatian, you know by chance which and how they fought to make the Croatian language official in this country. The Croatian language, the government said, is becoming an official language in the EU. The truth I was in Strasbourg last week, there are Croatian translators, they do their job nicely, everything is translated what you say or what you hear in Croatian, there is no problem. Brussels, Europe protects diversity, protects our language. The question now is whether or not we want to do it ourselves, and we know how to do it. Over the past 20 years, we've lost industrial sovereignty by stealing. Stealing and thieving. We have lost financial sovereignty, again by stealing and stealing – stole banks. We lost military sovereignty deliberately by agreeing with NATO with good reasons and smart reasons. We are losing a good deal of political sovereignty, our ministers are now going to Brussels for an opinion before they send the law to the House. Intentionally with good intentions. This part of the sovereignty regarding language is actually the essence of everything we are. We are who we are in language. If that language is not in a form that is acceptable to all citizens and is required for all official uses, then there is no us as a people. It's our last defense wall of sovereignty that defines us as a nation. It is not a problem how we use our language in daily speech, so each of us has a dialect to serve, each of us has his own illiteracy. And it is so everywhere and in the world, even with us, in every language. The problem is the official use of language. What happens terribly in Croatia is as Mr Vuksic said he has a company like the Westin Hotel here in Savska where the official language is not Croatian, where Croats have to speak in foreign language to be understood by the bosses. It's the same situation, and at the Karlovac brewery, let's say I know it from practice. There are probably many such companies in Croatia. It may be a free market, it may be globalisation, but it is the persecution of Croatian language from its own country. This proposal was carefully made believe or not, but it was done for a few months. The Institute of Croatian Language and some professors from the Faculty of Philosophy and journalists and linguists from public media and left-wings and right-wings participated in it, and it was expressed by right-wingists and express left-wingists. And everyone agreed that something like that had to be done. If this House and this Government believe that it is not we will continue to insist on defending Croatian sovereignty, but we will be a little sad, a little disappointed and not hesitate to say our opinions in public. It's about the way I've just said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7174	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, especially respected colleagues. This bill, in particular its intensity and the need to talk in Croatia about the position and standard of Croatian language, is certainly in the SDP club. However, I will give an explanation why we believe that such an effort is not good in the legislative proposal and the specific legislative proposal is not good. In that sense, the SDP club shares both the opinion and the opinion of the Government but I will appeal here on behalf of the SDP club and I would say to one of the greatest authorities if not the highest authority of Ms. Nives Opačić a famous linguisticist, and I would say the only true fighter for the preservation of Croatian language. In fact, the Croatian language in Croatia itself has become almost a stumbling block. First let's just remind ourselves of one single sentence, it was meant to unite the north and south, and that made it easier to communicate and that was the main idea of Gae. It is paradoxical that in this sense we agree with the proposal itself that national identity really depends on language. And throughout history we have defended not only and not less with a sword and more with a tongue. So that fight was both sword and feather. But of that one national language identity, that symbol is increasingly in trouble, and I'm experiencing some kind of a particular paradox. On the one hand, dialects are extinct, and on the other hand the standard language cannot become the one accepted in everyday speech. Who threatens the Croatian language? Throughout history, these were the great forces that occupied us, which sought first and foremost to disembark us and to forget Croatian, from Austria, Hungary, Italy, the Kingdom of SHS, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and to mention the quinsecret formation of NDH that worked on such a purism of language that was often and rightly thrown out mockery. And in this last war when we got rid of aggression and we believed that the right conditions for care were created, for the Croatian language to flourish exactly what the proponent himself had done in explaining his bill and states. It happens essentially aggression in Croatian. But that aggression doesn't go in tanks, it doesn't go in guns, it's subtle that it can't be more subtle and that's why it's more dangerous and dangerous that it can't be. Indeed, foreigners of every kind penetrate into public political life, into the scientific, economic, cultural, and mission space, and thus those eternal aspirations for the preservation of Croatian language are questionable. How to protect Croatian standard language first of all in public communication? What are the standards of Croatian standard language? They really need to be taught and that's what every citizen needs to know. The use of jargons, aliens, lenders, dialects thus endangers the standard Croatian language. And the danger of losing the Croatian standard language is certainly such that it must worry all of us. Namely, anything that is not nurtured is doomed and reconciled, and it is far from us to cultivate Croatian. Is it actually embarrassing and almost unimaginable and terrifying that the study of journalism has no Croatian at all as the main tool for serving in its written and oral form. What position do teachers of Croatian language have in primary and secondary school? Mistake in Croatian language in speech not only by using aliens, it is an even smaller problem, but by even knowing spelling, grammar, syntax, it almost causes no social condemnation. And what we leave to the young, we see right from their behavior. However, legalizing and trying to sort that thing out if that were the case, then it would be a very simple thing. Those who are particularly proud of their language, in fact I would say that it is every nation, but in this as a single power, France has also tried to do so by law. The Czech Republic and Slovakia tried to do so, and they gave up very quickly. At the outset, I mentioned Professor Nives Opačić who was just talking about this problem and said that often many learned people are calling for this particular need in this desire to protect the Croatian language especially in public use, she said that many of what the proposer suggested to her. And the one who's always this way when a man is a little bit and powerless in everything to defend what he loves so much, she's often and funny in those answers, although she's very persistent, so here's the answer: "The language law would be a complete failure because it's known that we like to look for holes in the law." In fact, what's the solution to all this? Therefore, the Croatian language should not be particularly legal with the existing laws that you gentlemen have proposed, are also called upon to the Constitution, to cultivate it, to develop it, to love it briefly because who will love it more than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7176	Thank you. We're done arguing on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Peja Grbin's representative called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7177	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. I felt the need to report on this agenda point for the reason I came from Istria, from part of the Republic of Croatia where perhaps the longest use of the Croatian language was banned. In fact, during the time we say in Istria, one who spoke Croatian often risked being beaten or receiving ricinus oil therapy. However, it did not prevent us from staying Croats in Istria, to cultivate our own language, and to be proud of it. Why am I saying this? Because I think there are questions that cannot be settled by law. When we try a question like the language issue to regulate the law in the way you suggest we risk exactly what colleague Anticevic said we all try to find ways to avoid it, how we ignore it, how we find holes in that law. For example, the Latin language during the Middle Ages was, I'm going to use a foreigner of lingua franca in Europe. But why? Because he was allowed to develop freely, for he was allowed to enter words from the tongues of the people. However, at the time that the scientific circles then decided to pollute it, they decided to return it to what it was a thousand years ago, it lost its quality. The moment we try to regulate language by law, and language is living matter, we will destroy that language. That is why, no matter how much I support your intensities, and because I think your intensity is good, I think this law in this form in which you suggested it should not be supported. And I'll be free to point out a few provisions of your law that I consider not only impertinent in practice but also very bad. For example, Article 13 provides that conferences for the media in the Republic of Croatia can only take place in Croatian, meaning members of national minorities when working their own language conferences in which they have the right in the Republic of Croatia would have to hold a press conference in Croatian. I'm sorry, but I think it's unconstitutional. In Article 33, you provided that all legal persons referred to in Article 21 of your law must, within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, comply with the provisions of that law, meaning all legal persons in the Republic of Croatia who have, for example, acted under the Law on Commercial Companies used Latin words, used Greek words in their name must change those names, but must also change the trade marks based on that law. Imagine the costs you'd bring them to. Finally, Article 21 of the Law provides that all persons registered in the Republic of Croatia must be used in their name in Croatian words, and you have in your name the word Labourists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7178	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Mr Vuljanic's representative came forward first for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7179	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms, in the use of minority languages, is spoken in an article you mentioned before. Of course, where a minority language is used it is treated as a Croatian language because it is the native language of people who... speak so that it is not an argument. The fact that the language dies if it does not receive foreign influences is true and the Croatian language receives foreign influences, received them all the time, receives them today, will receive them tomorrow. It's just that the problem is how and how these influences are assimilated. If something is in Zagreb and it is called the Zagreb Festival, the festival is not a Croatian word of course, then it is quite a fine expression. But if something is called Zagreb Fest, then it's not okay, because it's definitely not in the spirit of Croatian language, either synthetically or lexically, at all. It's a typical English term, two directories of which is one adjective. In law, you say there's a feller that could hurt someone. Well, we didn't ask, nor did it occur to us that the law was going into emergency proceedings, to vote on Friday. We would just like to talk about it, to accept the principles and make sure that the Croatian language continues to survive in this country, not to become some depth Croatian, some kind of PG English, PG Croatian, ever, to remain the language our ancestors served, of course promoted as time promotes it. Among other things, this law is closest to the Slovenian law. I am one of the authors of this, Slovenia's law is identical in most items, and Slovenians act on it. They must be a strange people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7180	Representative Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7181	... that the issue of language should be discussed, on the issue of the use of Croatian language. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] I often get angry when I read in the newspaper an alien for a word or something that we have an expression in Croatian. However, I repeat these are things that we cannot regulate by law because the moment such things begin to be regulated by law we will make a mistake. We're gonna make a mistake because we're gonna shut it down all of a sudden. You yourself said the Zagreb Festival is a good word because it entered the Croatian language, but that's exactly what the wealth of one language is, that's what one life is about. And that's that we receive something new and it eventually becomes ours. And I purposely started my presentation with the story of Istria under Italian occupation. It was precisely because I wanted to show that language and people can survive not only when they do not have the law on the use of that language but also when they do not have their own country and when they have someone systematically trying to suppress the use of that language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7182	Thank you. Next replica representative Mr Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7183	Well, earlier, a colleague mentioned that she would immediately look for holes in the law, use a single quote. And here you're looking for holes in the law, you're actually talking about everything but the essence of this law that we've proposed. And the basis for which I have appeared does not regulate this law language but regulates the use of language. That's two different essentials, that's the fundamental difference. And something here feels in the air like we're talking against the law, what are we going to pass the law when we step on it? So let's not pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7184	Thank you. We're done arguing. Does the Proposer want to? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made. We're finishing today's session. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Collection, First Reading, P.Z. No. 58. Thank you and good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-26-0.u7185	Proposal for a Law on Public Use of Croatian Language, First Reading, P.Z. No. Ten. The proposed law is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposal for a Law on the Public Use of the Croatian Language proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party because of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament is not accepted. I'd like to make a statement on this conclusion. Who's in? Against? And restrained? I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 8 against and 25 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. On the agenda we have a follow-up to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Collection, First Reading, P.Z. No. 58 Proposer Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading apply to the adoption of this law, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Here is a representative of the proposings, Mr. Minister Ranko Ostojic. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go. And there's his deputy, Mr. Emil Tonkovic, whom I also welcome.
