ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8806	Dear MPs in the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives, continue the work of the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you. I suggest we take the agenda, set the agenda. The first is the point - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 91 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate on the proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Minister of Health, Mr Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So before you there is a proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, so unfortunately this is an obvious example that not only was it not done by profession, not only was it not scientific knowledge, but unfortunately it was done in the previous period against the constitution. Therefore, our Constitutional Court has abolished everything that my predecessor has done and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision is repealing Article 37(2). The health care law. It is prescribed that the public health services network, with the opinion of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Public Health and the competent chambers, should be carried out by the Minister. The Constitutional Court has determined that the contested text of the law will cease to apply by 15 July at the latest. Therefore, we have reacted without delay, corrected the error of my predecessor and previous ministry and acting in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision by this legislative proposal, which lays a new basis for the adoption of a public health service network in a way that respects constitutional provisions on the meaning of the units of regional or regional self-government. In order to ensure availability, and what you colleagues and colleagues certainly want, the availability of health care and the creation of equal conditions for the entire population, so from Dubrovnik to Vukovar, it is necessary to prescribe a way of ensuring medically acceptable time to achieve healthcare measures, so please support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8808	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the committee's reporters, the working bodies want to take a word for it? I don't think so. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first to argue is clubs. The first club to apply for the debate is the HDZ club and the respected representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will, of course, support the proposal for this law, the amendment of the law in fact, because it is a decision of the Constitutional Court which was suspended by Article 37(2) of the Constitutional Court. The Law on Health Protection and changed what was prescribed, which is that the public health service network, with the opinion of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Institute for Public Health and the competent chambers, was brought by the Minister responsible for Health and then the Constitutional Court decided that the contested law would cease to apply by 15 July at the latest. Of course, there is nothing controversial about this because the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be clearly implemented. What I would like to mention here, however, is that we're re-branding something by emergency procedure, making an amendment to the law by emergency procedure. Of course you'll find someone who will tell me is, it's an emergency procedure because the Constitutional Court itself has determined that this must be done by July 15th this year. However, the fact is that this decision was made or delivered about one month, month and a half, by July 15, thanks to God still has a month and a half, thus a total of about three months and three months, regardless of the need indicated by the Constitutional Court that by July 15, there is certainly enough time for such a change to be actually carried out by regular procedure. I don't know which times I'm going to say it's not quite safe, it's not good for this Parliament either, it's not good for democracy that laws are constantly passed by emergency procedure. I've given myself a little effort to look at the figures in this 7th session, how many laws were passed in a regular procedure, and how much urgent procedure, so I just want to remind us all that so far we've passed one law in a regular procedure, and 76 laws in an emergency procedure. Is really the ratio of 76:1 mirroring our democracy, mirroring the way this House should work, mirroring freedom of opinion, thinking, imagining the best ways that a legislative body should do. This may seem unrelated to this law because, I say again, there is a deadline that should be respected. However, this deadline could also be respected in the ordinary procedure, on the one hand, and on the other hand it was quite certain and this was also discussed, etc., that it would be necessary to adopt, for various reasons that were announced through the media, etc., a number of other changes in the Health Protection Act. And it is quite certain that already in a few months this law will need to be changed again, probably again according to the modus operand which has been inaugurally in these five months again by emergency procedure, and then two months later it will be seen that a change should be made again and will be followed by an emergency procedure. And that's certainly not good. It's not good for the quality of the law either because I hold that for every law it would be much better to discuss it thoroughly. That is why there are and that is why it is envisaged, and that is why it has been common in the history of this House that practically all laws go according to normal regular procedure in two readings, many have gone into three law readings precisely to allow all different opinions to be expressed and then to choose the best, most effective and the best quality. In this way, and again I refer to the law that we are now talking about and remind you, and I will remind you quite certainly in a few months again, that surely in a few months there will be some change to this law and that we will discuss it again safely by emergency procedure, and then, again, I say, two, three months later again about some change. And it's just not good. So I'm taking this opportunity to all of us, and especially lawmakers, and that's government not in this particular case just the Ministry of Health, ask them to prefer to come up with things, give themselves a little more time and then the laws that matter, and they're all important, we discuss in a normal, regular procedure. We're not in some state of emergency, as much as we're trying to do this in one way or another unless I know about it, and then I guess this House should know first. Therefore, there is no reason for literally 76 laws per 1 to be passed by emergency procedure, but I am pleading to go into normal procedures and then, in normal procedures, to use all the laws we are discussing to improve with the additions and the other type, not that every time only ad hoc reacts and reacts to one article or one item and then again to the next two paragraphs and then three months later to another item, etc. This does not guarantee the quality of the law or, of course, to the executive authority to effectively implement these laws, and gives the impression of inconclusiveness as well as the proposer of this House, of course. So here's what I would say as a single request to all of us, and of course I repeat this law again, this change of law will support the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8810	Thank you, Your Honor. The next is HNS MP club and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8811	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The health care network is one of the fundamentals that the ministry, or health care system, must bring in so that overall health care can function normally on a specific territory, in this case in the area of the Republic of Croatia. It is no wonder that the Constitutional Court, meaning this Article 37, which has been set aside in time, i.e. left out local or regional self-government when proposing a network, or its opinion when proposing a network, even though we had it in that previous law. Of course, this article is first and foremost based on the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Because the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government states that units of local self-government in their own district are doing jobs, fifthly organise primary health care of the county in their own self-government district, performing regional affairs, especially those related to second-place health care, is firstly education. Our health care system is one step decentralised and all of us who used to work in regional self-government know very well what problems we are facing as founders of institutions that cover the primary health care system, at the level of specialist and consular outpatient care, special hospitals that are in charge, i.e. the founders of the county, i.e. large cities in some places. I'm asking if it's possible that someone dared to abandon the founder at all, means regional self-government or local self-government to say at least an opinion on whether the network is, and the network is talking about where the health care places are, means hospitals, hospitals, clinics, etc., how many of them are there, are they well deployed? So is it possible that someone thinks that the office of the ministry in Xavier is better seen where it is needed in health care, especially in primary health care, than it is seen on the ground in units of local, regional self-government? This issue of change is of course not a question of any of our consent because I'm on behalf of the HNS Club what can I say? That we agree with the Constitutional Court's decision and that we will support it. Well, it probably wouldn't have occurred to anyone to support the Constitutional Court's decision. But here a fundamental question opens, is what is proposed also an opinion, an opinion that is not binding on the ministry. The opinion of regional or local self-government, is that enough? That's not enough according to HNS. Opinion is something that, in the law itself, the minister or ministry may or may not have to respect, can be given and not have to be given. If not, or if not accompanied by a local self-government unit, or regional self-government, the minister may nevertheless bring a network. I think we could do, despite the urgency of the procedure, as the previous colleague said, we could take a further step and turn the story a little bit. A large number, i.e. a large system, is actually in the jurisdiction of regional and local self-government. Could we have done so that the network was brought by the representative bodies of local, or regional self-government, of course with the previous opinion of the Institute and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Institute of Public Health and Competent Chambers, and with the agreement of the Minister. We in HNS see a problem here. It would be only a principled respect for the Law on Local, Regional Self-Government and a principled respect for our decision to go into decentralisation. There is one more article of the law that no one has complained about, in this case the city of Zagreb complained about, and we must be grateful for that. Although, in fact, the key problem of our health care is not that it will be given state and county hospitals, i.e. Zagreb hospitals, to connect and separate, as far as the network is concerned. But the problem is on the ground, the problem is on the islands, the problem is in the Gorski kotar, the problem is in Lica, the problem is in Slavonia, where we have sub-capacitated teams, i.e. very many patients by individual teams in the area of Slavonia. Where we don't have an adequate number of doctors, where all teams are online, means primary health care under the number that's assigned to the network. We don't have a complete network of primary health care anywhere. Why, then, do I wonder the network? But I said, I want attention. There's another system, and that's Article 109. The health care law that speaks of the Emergency Medical Services. For emergency medical assistance, a special network is brought in and brought by the minister according to, or adopted by, the Organisation Regulation. I think in this procedure we could and should, given the problems we have in the emergency system, the ER. Also, in an article containing the condition, organisation and way of performing emergency medicine on the proposal of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute, the Minister will prescribe it. Why didn't we put in a network of emergency medical teams? Brings, representative body of regional self-government on a proposal from the Croatian Emergency Medical Service, and with the agreement of the minister. Because I'm telling you, in the field right now, the Emergency Medicine Department, the regionals are recording huge losses and having major problems in the organization. Who's gonna pay for that, probably regional self-government. So doesn't regional self-government have the right to decide how many teams she needs and propose a network, or bring a network with which she will agree or disagree with the ministry? So here, basically, what we want to call ourselves, I don't know if it is, we're not sure if this is the right time, given that the urgency of the procedure is and that the deadlines for the Constitutional Court's solution must actually be respected. But these would be small steps, a small job for us, and a big profit for the entire health care system, if they did. In this respect, the HNS will table amendments to the amendment and addition of this law. As a first step and a contribution to the debate in the sense that this law will change the way I talked about it, so it cannot be brought from the ministry of Xavier, from the office to bring a net because the needs of that height cannot be seen. Let the founders, let the regional, let the local self-government manage and manage systems and allow these systems to develop. Finally, the end of regional and local self-government that are founders of health institutions, we witness this daily, ultimately covering losses in that same system, or funding above the standards if they want to have them, and we have 90% of the system above the standard, at least as far as institutions in the jurisdiction of regional self-government are concerned. That's why you wouldn't talk any further about the details, because a lot of details could be said about the network. Like I said family, family teams, family medicine. The network in Croatia has 2462 teams, I don't know if it's the freshest data, but I suppose it is. We have 2335. The 324 teams are scheduled for a network, we've got 257 of them. Who treats us, in some places, who treats our children? In the gynecology of 326 teams projected by the network, we have 273. So there's no net filled anywhere. I wouldn't be explaining any further the subject of personnel, specializations and anything that was missed in the previous period in order for the network to be filled in, in order for the funding to be secured, but I think we need to take steps forward. And in that sense, the HNS will submit amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8812	Thank you, too. Next is SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I must say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club that this law can only be passed by emergency procedure. Why? It's precisely because it's actually the only way to comply with the Constitution's decision, and I'm surprised that Mr. Academyman is a respected professor. Reiner, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, had his entire discussion, in fact, narrowed down to an analysis of the proceedings, and not to any fundamental fact the essence of this Law. In fact, it doesn't matter how much reading is going to make this decision. This is actually the correction of a mistake. Our goal is to decentralisation the health system, but this is a transitional period that we actually need to structure, or correct the mistakes that have been made before. The denominations of local self-government were arranged in such a way that public powers were exercised so that they were preferred to belong to the authorities closest to the citizens, and here are the final users, the citizens made comments on these decisions that the minister had previously made, specifically for the merger of hospitals and were not respected. She also brought the profession, made proposals against such mergers, and the minister did not respect it. And so I say I support what the minister said at first, and that is, this law was against both the Constitution and the profession. The important Health Protection Act means Article 37(2) of the Public Health Service Regulation, with the preliminary acquisition of the opinion of the Croatian Institute for Public Health, the Croatian Health Insurance Office of the Chamber is actually brought by a minister. Unfortunately, the law did not require the prior opinion of the units of the regional self-government. It is precisely this provision that is unconstitutional and therefore, by decision of the Court of Justice, this Article 37, that is, paragraph 2, of the Law is amended, and it ceases to apply on 15 July 2012. Let's remind ourselves of the project to bring together Zagreb hospitals launched by the minister in the former government, which actually reduced the reduction then, planned to cut costs. At that time, however, both the profession and the politics and, as I have said, the end-users stressed, that this cannot be achieved but that this will result in a disorder of organisational and additional confusion that will reduce the availability of health care. And for all of us who work in health care and politicians and all of us, it's actually the goal of that health care to be available to everyone. The project was carried out not by unifying hospitals by some logical principle, but by territorial principle. And that is why I say that this harmful decision, the adverse decision was to abolish the independence of the Children's Diseases Clinic in Klaic when the level was reached, where the level of quality of children's health care in Croatia was achieved. It is then a children's hospital where children from all over Croatia are treated up to 18 years old, when more than 3800 children are admitted annually, which is in fact 10% of the total hospitalized children in Croatia. There is also a reference centre for clinical allergology of children. Then we have the Special Hospital for the Psychology of Children and Youth in Kukuljevic, and the Special Hospital for Children Goljak. These are specialized institutions in Croatia for specific needs for child care. Thus, all these hospitals, regardless of the difficulties that were also financial, still had good business and high standards in treating children. And our goal is to repeat the best solution for our citizens and patients coming to treatment. Therefore, the decision of the Constitutional Court has shown that local self-government must also be asked before such decisions are taken. Therefore, this amendment to the legislative proposal today is also proposed, and this is in fact the new basis for the creation of a public health service network in a way that respects constitutional provisions on the importance of units of local, regional self-government. The second amendment in this Act refers in fact to the way in which medically acceptable time is provided for healthcare measures. Now in Croatia, there are 540,000 patients waiting for a search or surgery. However, it is unfortunate that there is no uniform procurement procedure, a unique way of average waiting, a calculation of average waiting, and patients are often ordered multiple hospitals. However, they do not cancel those appointments. And precisely because of this chaos, there are often no medical procedures in medically optimal time. And our healthcare professionals and doctors and sisters with their enthusiastic work they really try to please every end-user. However, everyone is dissatisfied. Citizens are dissatisfied very often with the entire health system. This is why order should be introduced, deadlines for individual and diagnosis and for specialist procedures, diagnostic procedures, therapy, etc. In order to ensure the availability of healthcare and to create equal health care conditions for the whole population, it is necessary to actually prescribe a way of ensuring medically acceptable time to achieve healthcare measures. And this is said in this Law in Article 1 when it is said that the way in which medically acceptable time is provided for health care measures will actually be prescribed by the Minister. They are dissatisfied, in fact, when we talk about waiting lists, and health workers are dissatisfied, and they are all dissatisfied even though they have a great engagement. However, this often depends not on engagement, but unfortunately it often depends on problems within the system. I think that these days we also see through the media real skeletons that fall out of the closet, which is when we look through the footage of the condition it's very necessary to actually introduce the structure into hospitals and structures into public procurement and structure into waiting lists, etc. So then we have data for example one hospital gets an artificial hook of 1,000 kuna, others up to 3000 kuna, etc. Then we have a coronary stent cost somewhere from 4 and a half thousand kuna to 11 and a half thousand kuna. The eyeballs cost from 350 kuna to 620 kuna. Thus, all this says that in health care it is necessary to introduce a structure. And another thing about deadlines, there was a speech today that made this an emergency. Yes, the decision is that it must be brought by emergency procedure precisely because it is determined that the disputed statute of the law ceases to apply until 15 July 2012, and that is the response to urgency. But this is also the answer, and that this government, or this ministry, is showing responsibility, shows rationalization, introduce structures exactly by system that in reforms we can do with more or less, and that means with a good picture of the situation, with the introduction of the structure that we can and change the system of course to be the end user satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8814	Thank you, too. The honourable MPs to your presentation have reported a correction of the incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zeljko Reiner will say what was not true. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8815	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. What wasn't true? It was not exactly the first allegation, and then the last allegation of distinguished MPs, which is that this law could only be passed by emergency procedure. It is simply not true, however, it is the opposite of everything that is existing, and it is still worth reminding of all the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament says he says in the saying "Extreme law can only be passed by emergency procedure when the interests of the defence and other particularly justified state reasons or when it is necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy". This applies neither to defence nor to the economy, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the three-month period is quite appropriate for normal proceedings to be taken. So, that's why I dedicated my exposure to that distinguished representative, she gave me that idea of what I was talking about. I'm not going to talk about now being exposed to an article next to the Constitutional Court decision we've now heard various allegations which, along the way, are not exactly about the prices of services, etc. But here's the rectification of the quote. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8816	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next club is club IDS and respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8817	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Let me quote or sooner I agree with Mrs. Tatjana Šimac that this is actually about correcting one mistake. And now it doesn't matter if it goes into one regular or one emergency procedure or an emergency procedure. The opportunities are so complex in this country that I simply have the impression that they should begin to change at once. The economic system is collapsing and you realize there is no time for a policy of long-term larpurlartism and also counterproductive I don't know these dispersions. I agree that every debate in this House is absolutely useful, necessary, welcome but we simply don't have time if we want to block everything mainly when we see that industrial production falls in this quarter by about 9 point something percent, that GDP falls by 2%, that we have over 80,000 people working and not receiving salaries, etc. but I also agree that there are simply laws that must necessarily go into two readings mostly of those that tang, I would say 4.5 million inhabitants of this country, which are of financial nature. When we talk about this legal solution, let me first quote this on page 2 of this bill's bill of assessment and the basic issues that are being settled. So then it is said here that "the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which all mentioned is repealing Article 37(2). Health care laws, national newspapers, etc. It is prescribed that the public health services network, with the opinion of the HZZO, the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and the competent chambers, shall be brought by the Minister responsible for Health. The Court of Justice has determined that the contested Article of the Health Protection Act will cease to apply at the latest on 15 July 2012" and then the network of public health institutions, etc. So the government literally when we keep in mind and this argument of the Constitutional Court has nowhere else to go. She just has to go to the changes to this law. What's the point of this law? This is Article 2 which says "that the public health service network, with the opinion of the Institute, the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the competent chambers and representative bodies of the units of the regional (regional) self-government, is being brought by the minister". So the minister, along with this attached opinion and chambers and representative bodies, is primarily referring to the county. And to quote another part of the argument he was also called upon to our Constitution, means the arguments that the ministry is preparing for us. It says here "Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides that units of local self-government are to carry out local activities that directly meet the needs of citizens, in particular those relating to health care, etc. The units of regional, regional self-government are the counties doing tasks of regional importance, and in particular those relating to health care, as well as the planning and development of a network of health institutions" etc. Now it would be real after this explanation all great, ideally if our local self-government wasn't rudely impoverished. Which is worth having some powers if on the other hand that same local self-government doesn't have any money. Which is worth it to you that some of the affairs of the Constitution are entrusted to the counties when the counties are literally marginalized financially, when the counties are... in one word impoverished. Local self-government is now revenueing somewhere and 17.18% of this fiscal capacity is being achieved in the Republic of Croatia. There's a lot of talk about eight, nine percent. That's not true. It is about 18%, the cities of cca up to 10%, the city of Zagreb itself around 5% of that fiscal capacity, the county cca about 2%, and there we get to that 18%. Sometimes, however, not long ago during the ex-Yugoslavia, I call no one to God, so that no one would impute me, then the municipalities had almost 50% of the fiscal revenues in the area of the local self-government. That's when our municipalities, the cities were the fastest to develop. I dare say that then health care in the Republic of Croatia, in line with the clearly scientific possibilities of that time, was also best organised. True, we were making noises that Belgrade was exploiting us, that it was taking away our foreign exchanges, that Croatia was working, that Belgrade and all that was true, all that was true, and that is why it should not be surprised that how many, 90 per cent of Croatian citizens voted for an independent state in the referendum. An independent state, not independent but independent, was a thousand-year-old dream of the Croatian people. We got the state, but to be exact, we fought bloody hard for it, but a lot of things went wrong by independence, so I'm not paraphrasing those jokes until the '90s we lived in the dark, so that sequel that made that fool turn on after that light. But what do I want to say? Croatia is one of the most centralised countries in Europe alongside Greece. This law that we are talking about is, in some way, the "local self-government" law, about the powers of local self-government to which the Constitutional Court is attached, particularly when it comes to fiscal capacities. For one Greek, let's say we know where it is, for Croatia we'll only see where we're going to be, but the more centralized state it is, the poorer and the more decentralisation it is, the more powerful it is. Okay, some recognize that power not only in decentralisation but in work, knowledge, those third in religious expressions and then mention Protestantism, clearly I do not want to give up my Roman Catholic expression, but once again I will say, Croatia is a rudely centralized state. I agree, it needs to be changed, it needs to be adapted to the territorial structure, but the territorial structure is a second-rate issue. The fundamental question is the authority of local self-government and I dare say a direct choice of MPs. So we see this law bearing the title of the Health Protection Act, but this is according to the Constitutional Court's decision in some way and the law on that financial capacity of local self-government. There is no county that can finance health care through its own autonomous means today, no city, no community that gentlemen can do. Without more decentralised funds from the state budget coming down to the counties, everything would collapse anyway, the system collapses. I agree, if there are too many counties there and someone will say too many general hospitals. I agree, on the other hand, Croatia has too few doctors. But speaking of this financial capacity to mention opportunities in the County of Istria. The budget of the County of Istria for this year amounts to 395 million kuna, in these 395 million kunas of EU funds for Kastijun, meaning that the budget of 290 million kuna is originally to be re-refused or thrown out of the decentralised budget of 87.5 million kuna. So the original budget of the County of Istria is about 210 million kuna. Of these 87.5 million kunas of decentralised funds for Pula General goes about 20 million kunas, 50% for service, maybe a little more, of the current loan, and this other for current jobs. On the other hand, Pula General Hospital has 1100 employees, according to the number of employees, is right behind the Uljanics in the County of Istria, in a county that has many problems, but if everyone in Croatia I say had problems like Istria, then Croatia would not have them. Why, because we are probably the only space in the Republic of Croatia that has more jobs in 2012 than in '90. A year. Now, Pula General Hospital gets or makes 290 million kunas, does the job, does the job for 350 million kunas. So the original budget of the County of Istria 200 million kuna, general hospital 290 million kuna or with decentralised funds of the County of Istria has a budget rather than the budget of the General Hospital in Pula. And then we normally keep dealing with the institution's funding problems, better said with losses, last year 20 million kuna, or to be more precise with losses between 2 and 2.5 million kuna per month. The services are being invoiced significantly higher, but in the end I said there is always a shortage of 20, 30 million kuna and debts are generated. Now normally there's another problem when we're talking about Istria, it's also building a new hospital that's contitiated by the son of quanton I'd say health care in Istria. If this hospital is going to be built, I don't have a minister here, I'm leaving at 9 or 10 months. Equally, it is increasingly speculating when we are already talking about these health networks, etc., with the possibility of using that hospital in Isola, which until the 1990s only contributed to funding and citizenship from the area at the time of the Municipality of Buja, these are Umag, so today Novigrad, Buje, Oprtalj, Brtonigla, I don't know up etc., Grožnjan etc. Now I'm also interested in whether it's an emergency, and otherwise that relationship somehow works, slow, hard, but somehow it works, mostly in the season. We used to say give Istria the highway to Pula and the General Hospital from Pula will be able to take care of the patients, but the most urgent cases need to be taken care of for the nearness of the hospital, the border, care in Izola. We will see how it will be when we join the EU, when citizens get the opportunity to choose where they will be treated. Clearly, I said earlier, the number of general hospitals probably in Croatia is too large, no one has to agree with me, clearly Pula and Izola, Rijeka, fighting for every patient, but if we want to have quality health care, I want to say Croatia will need to be decentralisationd. Often in a conversation with Mr. Matosevic, who was head of the SIZ of Istria, the father of famous winemaker Matosevic, says we made a surplus of 18 million marks in the 1990s, and we built, invested, we had an incomparably higher quality structure than it is today. Today, we have at least as many losses a year as the 1990s have achieved surplus in the area of the Istrian County. So when the state gives you the rights, and this Constitutional Court decision goes in that direction, when it lowers your obligations, let it put down some lip. Because without money in that folk proverb, there is simply no music, and certainly there is no quality medical treatment even though our doctors, although our nurses really need to take off their hat and bow down to the land of the vis-a-vis of the effort they are making to make the system work, so that patients can change that health status. Here, all I understand is when we talk about the need for decentralisation that opportunities in Croatia are difficult, mentioned and the decline in GDP and industrial production. Croatia is said to be entering a new recession again. What can I say about all this other data that we can read every day? But I'm afraid that might be one of the reasons, so this economic reality that, well, it doesn't contribute to such soon-to-be decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8818	Bring in the end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8819	All in all, I'd like that to happen. It won't happen that soon. The law should certainly be supported, but without money or health care will not work, and sooner or later all of us, or our parents, who are already talking, will have to contact a doctor or any such institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8820	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have two incorrect allegations on your exhibit. The first is Honored Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Caine, you said that local self-government was defiled and devastated. I would have corrected that quote and said it was completely robbed. But one thing I don't understand is that when these mini tax reforms were passed that further devastated local self-government, you raised your hand for it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8822	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's colleague Cain, again nostalgicly calling for the beauty of life in the former Yugoslavia, said that at the time, the fastest municipalities and cities were being built and the fastest developed. It's just not true. Perhaps some municipalities and cities of favourites of the communist regime at the time, but I will say for example of Zadar that this is certainly not true because despite the war destruction in the new free Croatia in 15 years of free Croatia, basic infrastructure in Zadar has been built at least 20 times more than in 45 years of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8824	And how many jobs did you have back then, and how many do you have now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8825	Thank you very much. Please, if you have anything to say, raise the plate and we'll see what. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Let's go forward. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. Don't you? Excuse me. HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8826	Here's Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs, thank you for your word. So, as far as these amendments are concerned, and the addition of the Health Protection Act that rests on the Constitutional Court's decision, we don't see any particular problem about it. These are changes logical. Whether we vote them now in an emergency procedure or a regular here, we will be independent in this case according to the ruling coalition and accept such an emergency procedure even though we did not vote for it, but we were against it. The whole story was more or less spinning again in the capital of the Republic of Croatia and in the problem of several clinics that were connected to large hospitals. One of them is the Jordanian Lung Clinic and the other was actually a question of the Children's Lung Hospital on Srebrenica. And there is another specific institution in the City of Zagreb, which is the Gynaecology Clinic in Petrovo. All these three institutions have their decades of tradition that lasts for decades, they are highly and closely specialized in individual areas. For example, more than half of all lung cancers in Croatia have been operated at the Jordanovac clinic for decades, practically two-thirds of all lung cancers in Croatia for decades. The Gynaecology clinic in Petrovo is also a highly specialized focused institution that as a private institution had its own long-term history. We saw it, and there was a protest about the Children's Lung Hospital on Silver. I think that, as a doctor, what I really do by profession, I'd be happy to even though I've never worked in those facilities, but I think it would actually be good for our profession if those facilities were also independent health institutions and they weren't attached to any larger systems. Because surely every institution attached to a larger system loses its autonomy, its specificity, its visibility, and we can say that this is not the case, but that is the case. There were also a lot of talk here about the problems of the county and the problem of financing general county hospitals or general hospitals in Croatian counties. I, as I come from Požega-Slavon County, could tell Mr Cain who said that the original income of Istrian County is 210 million kuna mild to him. In Požega-Slavon County are the original revenues of 50 million kuna and out of those 50 million kuna County barely manages to single out a million, two both when or not one actually for the General County Hospital in Požega. As for the skeletons in the closet, I think that in fact we and the general health system problems, I think that sometimes we are, in fact, slightly deluded by the question of the health system and the way in which it can form it or how it can be equally valuable to the Western European system, while at the same time the state has not entered the deficit, as it has been for 20 years. So that's impossible. This health care system is being financed from 15 percent, now it's down to 13 percent from pay. So the budget is 750 million kuna less for healthcare, from supplementary insurance. For 20 years, the health budget of the year has been filled with rebalances or there is a deficit of 500 million kunas, a billion kunas, and there have been more than billions of kunas. And I don't know if it's been one year since the Croatian state was established that the health budget was managed throughout one year without having been rebalancing and supplementing, and so it is. And that's why neither the previous government nor the current government dares to extract HZZO from the Treasury because they are aware that this year the health system will end up with hundreds and hundreds of millions of kuna debt. Why is that? Well, that's because everything, the whole system is resting practically on this million, today 1 350 thousand people who make a health contribution, are getting smaller and smaller. And the health budget and health needs are getting bigger. And those people who worked or worked more and had higher salaries, now have a little higher pensions, plus additional health insurance. As one punishment for those who work more and separate more, and the only ones who single out for that system should pay additional health insurance. And of course this health care system is funding today, as well as the pensions of 1 350 thousand people, something of this for the supplemental, and we're about 4.5 million. And what exactly is going on in that system? Here I have had the opportunity to actually work in most segments of that system and in primary health care, both in the military, and in secondary health care and health insurance. So I had a chance to actually get to know the problems with the various aspects of that system, and your problems are different. As far as primary health care is concerned, she is, in fact, the first one started to triple at the time of the War Minister of Health. It was a time since primary health care began to triple and slowly stagnate, as there was a period of almost 10 years, 8 years that no specializations from general medicine were awarded. And slowly over the years, nothing has changed. Primary health care is becoming less and less involved with patients, more and more dealing with papers, today with computers, with IT, with administration, with various laws. Well, we've seen, recently, the police have remembered, that primary health care should also be involved in weapons. Whoever's carrying the gun, report to the police when someone gets sick with a gun, so the police can take his gun list. Similar things have been remembered by some other systems in the state, and actually those people who work in the primary today least see the patient, and they see in front of them a whole series of norms, regulations and tasks that they have to do according to both HZZ and the state, and according to pension insurance, and according to disabled commissions, both to the police and to anyone who remembers. As far as secondary healthcare is concerned, i.e. hospitals, people in hospitals work as hard as they can. I mean, all people try, but the problem is the hospital. They mentioned different prices in public procurement, I think, first of all, that the different amount they get, regardless of what quantities they get. We meet with the fact that the prices of medical supplies, medicines, supplies, furniture, appliances are extremely high in the Republic of Croatia. The ones in the otherwise extremely high, and in the Republic of Croatia are even more, because we are a small market, in the first because we are a small market. And one chair sitting here is going to cost 1,000 kunas the same chair if it's licensed to be in the operating room, it's going to cost 5000 kuna and it's going to be his price. Medicinal products are also becoming more expensive, and drug consumption is increasing. And this health care system, it can be tampered with, to the limit of endurance, and that's when the patient's savings begins and everyone swears there will be no savings on patients, but if it wants to be kept in these frames, it can only be saved on patients, there's nothing else to save on. And we wouldn't want to save on patients. Thus, this budget also ends this year with a major health deficit, which will be measured in hundreds of millions of kunas. The management role of the county, in the county hospitals in the first row, is to the compensation of the governing council of those sitting there. They don't run, they don't decide, nor do people who work in these hospitals benefit greatly from them. There's a fee going, a family job going so some favors. Most counties have no means to really manage their hospitals effectively, and most of these administrative councils serve pro-forma. When big debts arise, everyone turns to the state again and wants the state to resuscitate it, and so are the xy hospitals, the spa in the Republic of Croatia is being rehabilitated year after year. So what's that property for, which is a county hospital, it actually doesn't know any more or less. It's rare to be rich in counties, and it's easy to name one, two, three, who have enough resources and can be helped by some amount of money. This is where the natural city of Zagreb is preceded. As regards HZZO or the Institute of Health Insurance, mentions were made of SIZs and funds and HZZO remains today and remains a fund and it is no insurance company. That was the rest of the SIZ, the fund. Croatia is with Slovenia today, I don't know how many other European countries have only one insurance company in compulsory health insurance. Most Western European countries have introduced competition into the mandatory health insurance system. I'm neither advocating her, nor I'm against her, but that's a fact. HZZO has never grown or crossed one step from a SIZ or a fund into some modern insurance company. A security guard today when you enter any insurance company, you can also visually identify him. You enter any HZZO office in the Republic of Croatia today and recognize that you have entered the HZZO. Is there a logo? Is there any uniform appearance of this system? Well, there isn't. When you walk into a bank, you know it's that bank. What's HZO? This is one extension actually of the former SIZ, which is the fund that has never been set up. It is not formed because it has no market competition, so it will never be restructured until competition appears to it. Of course, to form a competition, now that finally answers the problem of this health system. Only two possible answers are either to finally establish the frameworks of the right or to continue to increase the issue of health care, there is no third way. Internal reserves and calling for internal reserves the health system has no internal reserves. All those who worked in that system must know that. Hospitals have nothing left to save. They're all tampered with to the maximum, people work, people are spent, they work overtime and they don't ask much. Maximum damage, minimal consumption and internal reserves in the health system are not available. And this current budget will not be enough but will create a big, big loss and will be rebalancing in the second half of the year. Therefore, both the call actually and the fellow deputy minister and the ministry. We've been hearing about reform for 20 years. The reform of the health system has never actually been anything. There are certain changes and easy groomings, but there was actually no real reform. And I think that the reform of the health system must begin in fact in health insurance reform when some policy has the courage to start it. Is that gonna be yours, I don't know. But first from health insurance, then to health care institutions, not the other way around. Here at the end of these changes, we have nothing against them, they're more or less nomotechnic, and we're going to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8827	Thank you, Your Honor, to Djurovic. With your presentation, we have completed the debate by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament on this subject. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. Honorable representative Damir Rilje is the first in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8828	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here's my predecessor said just before that it's actually always good to edit the first system that's true. However, the fact is that we suffer and because of the consequences that are simply what they are and are particularly viewed and seen in local self-government units, in concrete examples of providing health care. In connection with the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, I feel the need to give a few reflections that I think express the needs of citizens in the areas of units of local self-government, which is the quality and ability to provide primary health care in haste, quality and circumstances that are closest to and to the greatest extent available to citizens, and certainly only possible in local self-government units. To this day, experience in this regard is more negative than positive. Namely, in the health care network system, the organisation of health homes has not been effective so far and have moved towards eliminating the number, type and quality of essential health services most of which belong to primary health care. It often depended on the co-operation of units of regional, regional self-government, and this must not be so. Health care in legal frameworks and standards is the right of citizens and obligations of the state and must be harmonised and it must be carried out in accordance with the legal provisions. Respecting the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the European Charter of Local Self-Government but, above all, respecting the need for citizens in terms of the availability of equality in providing health care, I think and argue that it is necessary to ensure the organisation of health homes in units of local self-government wherever there are conditions for this, and, of course, by respecting the provisions of the regulation on the creation of an even and accessible network of health care. It is true that health care has been provided so far, but from the example of my local self-government, the city of Trogir, and knowing the examples of some other cities and municipalities, regardless of whether they had in their field of home health as it is also called other forms or other forms of organisation from the public health network, I claim that the existing structure did not take place in a satisfactory way for citizens in these units of local self-government even when solutions for more effective primary health care in the atmosphere of mutual goodwill were trying to find together with a unit of regional, or regional self-government, county as the former founder of home health. So far, my unit's experience of local self-government has led us to abolishing essential health services as part of the county health home's so far, as is the case in my city, and to refer users to most primary health services in some neighbouring health facilities or a clinical hospital up to 25 km away. On the other hand, a large part of these users are actually people with health problems from a wider region of my city. Thus, surrounding municipalities that do not even have a health care facility, which are then forced to go for a review and treatment and 40 miles [40 km] away. In other words, experience was such that it was precisely in the facilities to be left without adequate health services such as dialysis, X-rays, physiology, etc. And the question has been raised lately and other healthcare activities. For example, contracting services to ophthalmology, dental laboratories and others independently of a large number of users and requests for these services. In fact, we're almost out of paramedics on weekends. I think in the local, actually local self-government unit, you should give more, much more rights and responsibilities when establishing a public health network. Of course, the counties in this sense can and should ensure that the health care network is provided in the entire county precisely out of the inability to organise health homes in each local self-government unit, especially when it comes to hospitals or co-finance the ability to provide the quality and type of healthcare services that citizens need. It is my opinion that it is necessary for health homes to become institutions within the framework of local self-government whose founder would become a unit of local self-government, of course, as so far for the general interest of citizens, but in order to ensure more direct and efficient management and provision of primary health institutions where possible and where the quality and understanding of the needs of citizens from this area is better understood, as well as the local self-government unit and the associated environment with an appropriate type of health service. This certainly requires decentralisation of funds towards units of local self-government but certainly imposes a responsibility for the provision of these services to the public health care network. After all, it is only one step towards decentralisation in this area of social interest. I therefore believe that an amendment to the Committee on Regional, Regional and Local Self-Government as well as the Committee on Law is necessary in this text of the Law, as well as in the previous presentations of my predecessors and clubs which I have heard here that, in this text of the Law in Article 32(2), the possibility of the competent minister in determining the public health network in obtaining an opinion from HZZO, competent chambers and representative authorities of the district self-government should be added as well as the opinion of the representative body of the unit of local self-government. I would ask the promoter to respect this amendment, and all colleagues and fellow MPs to respect the need for the active interest of the local self-government units in order to effectively carry out primary healthcare services in their area support this law, of course, it would be nice to have it as binding and as far as the opinion of the local self-government unit is concerned. As far as urgency is concerned, I think that this problem is not only urgent but it should have happened long ago or long ago, because in the functioning of the health homes at least in what happened and happening to citizens, patients in my unit of local self-government have long become urgent. Here's my support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8829	Thank you, too. Your Honor, we have a signed replica on your exhibit. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Rilje, in the replica, will say that I absolutely agree with what you said about the fact that due to the even and accessible network of primary health care, there is absolutely a need to give more authority, more responsibility to the units of local self-government. I therefore think that this amendment to the law was an opportunity to prescribe that it is mandatory to seek the opinion of not only the units of regional self-government but also the unit of local self-government. In fact, here I will say for example the city of Zadar, for over 10 years we have been struggling with the network of medical primary health care for the reason that countys are consulted as units of regional self-government that determine numbers. Of course, large cities such as Zadar, Osijek, Karlovac are not the same as small municipalities of maybe a thousand or two thousand inhabitants, and it is not enough to determine the number of hospitals in the area of a local self-government unit because then it happens that these hospitals are then concentrated on certain parts of the city and that it is actually impossible to make primary health care available to the residents of certain parts of the city. Maybe new parts of the city where tens of thousands of people live, and they don't have an infirmary, but in the second part of the sara part of town, it concentrates on tens of the primary medical care facility. If a local self-government unit is not consulted to establish a network in its area, then we will not achieve what should be the goal, and that is to make the primary health care available to every citizen in the nearest possible place. And that is why I support this amendment of the Committee on Local Self-Government absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8831	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8832	Here's the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy, the esteemed colleague. Of course now we're going to agree absolutely, and I think here's what I've come forward to get the opportunity to say a little bit more. Namely, all the seriousness of not happening, that's exactly what you've just said, the events in providing primary health care exactly in the area of the local self-government unit are about where you have any form of public health care organization, and these are usually outposts of the county health home is usually organized for all surrounding municipalities that were in some way focused... swimming pools with people with surrounding municipalities who were focused on a health home that was usually in the centres or city centers. Now, that's where it happened and the day is happening today, and I'm still receiving right now some kind of appeal and letters from people who actually work there and want to provide a health care service and should once again be an extremely important opinion of the units of local self-government. I guess that's what the Deputy Minister and Minister will hear and install in this proposal. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8833	Thank you, too. The following debate was reported by respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8834	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When intensive debates in terms of health system reform were conducted in December 2008, then two fundamental objectives were set, which is the first financial consolidation of the health system and the second objective of ensuring a high level of quality and accessibility, which is necessary to say that we are certainly in the wider and European and global frameworks at a very high level. I believe that these objectives are certainly present and important today, but we must express concern with regard to the reduction of the budget of the Ministry of Health, given the reduction of the contribution, I must express concern because it is undeniable that technology is becoming more expensive every day and that costs are higher. And in that sense, I am expressing concern. In 2008, therefore, we know the same principles and measures of health care, rights and obligations of healthcare users, but everyone says about these rights that these rights are large, they always have all the rights, but those obligations are already a second question. Of course, these are also the organisational forms of the network and, therefore, what was evident, so that it was in the power of the minister who was to consult the Croatian Institute for Public Health, Competent Chambers, etc. The Constitutional Court therefore made its decision and there is no debate in this, and we agree. Of course there's talk about local self-government units. I think we heard one agreement about the local self-government unit on both sides. The agreement is there and the Constitution says clearly in Article 135 that units of local and regional self-government have an obligation. Hence, the Charter of Europeans in Article 4 also speaks of it. And the Law on Local Self-Government, all of this makes clear in that sense the obligation to organise health, availability, quality, whatever they call health care. All of this is clearly stated, but there is one, but it is that these new amendments to tax laws, income taxes, we have heard the words that local self-government is poored, and certainly, there are not enough funds. And if we mention it, well there it is, I think about 300 million to move somewhere around 300 million to take less funds, so for that, and please, I think we're all pretty real to ensure that special health care is needed absolutely significant means, there's no talking about it. If we add that the situation in agriculture, I often speak from this place about rural areas, if I talk about the situation in agriculture where agriculture is on its knees, that the village is poorer every day, and if it is poorer every day, if we also point out that decision please nicely before a short period of time that the right to treatment will have those who are more than 50 km away from the centre where they can achieve health care. Then this village regiment is denied what is fundamental, the fundamental objective, the fundamental right of availability. So all of these reasons are, each of you dear colleagues and colleagues spoke your example of the need, therefore, in your environment, about the need to organise quality, available health care in one way or another in your community, but no one looked back on how much funds needed to be found. And in that sense, I ask you, I call on us to be consistent then, if we advocate a certain right that when the time comes to vote, that we support and say so much we need our environment for that part. So there is no in this part of what is said, I would not like to repeat myself, but I am certainly obliged to mention these reasons which are very important, mainly for rural areas. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8835	Thank you, Your Honor. We have two replicas reported for your presentation. First is Honored Representative Ivan Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8836	I couldn't agree with my colleague 100%, even though I liked his exposure much more than those of the previous term when his party colleagues held the government. I've been listening to Mr. Ostojić's work every day through the media, of course, for the last time he came to us from Varazdin, from the colon. The only thing I wouldn't be happy about is our minister's been wondering about the state of health for 160 days. It takes a little too long, and an even bigger problem is that our patients are not surprised at such a condition, they are used to when they come to the hospital, especially talking about rural hospitals that a colleague said in Osijek where they have a problem whether they might be in the department if they are wet, whether God will not give them a bite by some kind of snake or a rat, because there are different animals there because in the last 20 years they have not even invested in Croatian hospitals. Only Slavons wonder when they come, they're lucky enough to take them to the Zagreb hospital and wonder because they've never had a chance to see such a thing in Slavonia before. The minister was in Osijek as he has been doing these 160 days, however, there are no concrete moves to improve the difficult situation in KBC Osijek. These days, two more snakes came along, you saw it in the media, in Osijek gynecology, and even there, health workers make jokes at the minister's expense that he was there, that he didn't bring anything to Osijek, that he had a snake in his pocket, and that there was a possibility that these two caught snakes on gynecology had escaped from the minister's pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8837	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, in this part of what you were saying about the local problem, I think you said one example of what many colleagues have spoken before you, but I may have answered the line to answer your line in the sense that you couldn't agree with me in the past term, and now you're sort of agreeing if I understood it correctly and that in some way. But then I'm surprised how come you guys are so intensely pulling our colleagues out of our ranks when we haven't rolled in the past tense, etc. I just don't understand it in that part when you're working so hard on that job. And as far as I know, most of you came from our ranks, so here in that sense I'd like to replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8839	If you wanted to comment, you'd say better to the snake in your hand than touch the HDZ. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8840	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, dear colleague Milinkovic. Well, here I have actually, in principle I agree, exactly how much money there is so much music, but the fact is that we could determine a hundred times when, why and how there is no money. But I do not think that this prevents us and prevents us from changing the organization in such a way that the local self-government unit is important and that it is asked, but of course we also have a situation in which the county health homes have certainly brought the state of functioning of the health homes for the entire county right into this situation that they have dealt with huge and huge losses and precisely from the organization. But we can discuss it or not, we can look for reasons and set a date that is a year of zero and where the funds have disappeared, become or are formed, but the fact is that we can't and can't prevent it, and that's exactly where we can and with the resources that we have and how many we have to ensure that this part of the social interest is happening, and that's health care, to our citizens where we need it, and that's the units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8841	Thank you, Your Honor. Replica response, respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Rilje swears to local and regional self-government and the Constitution and the law tells us about the importance and everything. But we're real people, a colleague of Rilje, and you come from local self-government and you know that for something to accomplish and for something to ensure that funds are needed. And in that sense, I invite you to be consistent and say here's when that budget goes, don't say it, that's good. Well, they all said, and you said, we need to secure the football and the health care everybody understands, but when it comes to that part. And what was, as it was, we are here to look to the future and to ensure available and quality health care for the present and future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8843	Thank you, too. The next debate is Đurđica Plancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8844	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Law on Health Protection by the Government to be adopted, which we are discussing today, may seem to be a mere fulfillment of the gap in the procedure of adopting the Health Services Network, which would soon be created by the end of the validity of Article 37(2). The law, and based on the Constitutional Court's decision. However, the Constitutional Court’s own judgment has led to an important constitutional issue in line with Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia relating to the organisation of public health services. I will try from the perspective of the mayor and the person who is also a participant of many long-term activities in an effort to make health care organisations better in their small island environments explain why I consider this harmonisation very important. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribes that local self-government units carry out local activities that directly meet the needs of citizens, in particular those relating to health care. The units of the district self-government shall carry out tasks of regional and regional importance, in particular those relating to health care and the planning and development of the Health Institute Network. When these jobs are awarded, priority will be given to those bodies closest to the citizens. That's what the Constitution says. The Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government has arranged for the county to carry out health-related tasks. The European Charter of Local Self-Government, confirmed by the Republic of Croatia, regulates the part of local self-government in such a way that public powers are exercised in such a way as to prefer to belong to the authorities closest to the citizens. These provisions clearly stress the need for local self-government units to have the highest impact on the organisation and way of providing health services. In the following exhibition, I will describe the island of Hvar as what it looks like in the county from which I come, Split-Dalmatia County. The 2003 Health Protection Act prescribed that health homes should be organised at the county level. So on Hvar, our very well-organized, efficient and economic health home, we integrated into the county. It was quickly proved to be a bad solution that affected the decline of the island’s population’s health standards. And we all know that health care on the islands is a very complex and specific problem. We've organized ourselves and started our fight to get our own Home of Health back. In this effort we achieved complete unity, all four units of local self-government on the island of an interested health profession and inhabitants of the island. We have even concluded agreements with hotel companies and provided additional funding for 1 euro per night to provide our many tourists with a better quality health service. We were convinced that all arguments were on our side and we kept pointing them out to the county authorities, but also ruling in the county and not hearing them. By amending the 2006 Law, it seemed that we had finally succeeded because at that time the law explicitly prescribed that in larger islands, as well as in Hvar, health homes should be established. However, it has proved that even the law in our county did not mean anything. After countless demands, meetings and pressures, we welcomed a new amendment to the 2008 law, which left the establishment of health homes on larger islands only as a possibility, and such a legal solution is still in effect today. Normally, we still have only the establishment of the County House of Health and citizens dissatisfied with the health service that is far below the standards we had until 2003. The establishment of their own health homes next to Hvar insists on many other units of local self-government in our county. Island of Brac, Makarska, Sinj, Imotski all who are in turn dissatisfied with the organisation of health care in our county home. Our mastodon centralized County Health Home still piles of losses. From 2006 to 2010, they accumulated 70 million kunas without interest. Monthly 1.2 million kunas of loss. For a number of years, the county has been decentralised means of repaying the debts of the House of Health from previous years. Thus, even in this quarter of the total of 6 million 970 thousand kuna funds intended to finance decentralised functions of health institutions, as much as 5 million and 200 kuna were allocated to cover the debts incurred from earlier years. Director of the House of Health who managed it until 2010 and left his post at his own request continues to work in the House of Health and as assistant to the new director. I think our example, is an example of an eclectic violation of the Constitution and ignoring units of local self-government and denying its constitutional functions. And why is that? In our county they probably know, but they couldn't explain it to us. In the neighbouring Dubrovnik-Neretva County, 5 homes of health were established, and on the island of Korcula as much as 2. I consider the proposed amendments to the law to be the beginning of a different behaviour in the adoption of acts concerning all of us and a completely different practice i.e. respecting the functions and arguments of local self-government. In particular, I would like to welcome and support the proposed amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, which also proposes that the representative body of the local self-government units also have the opportunity to give an opinion on the Public Health Services Network and ask the esteemed legislator to accept it. I am convinced that the new minister will hear and respect the arguments of local self-government that are closest to their citizens and certainly know best their needs and difficulties in achieving health care and that local self-government units will have a much greater impact on the organisation of public health services and the achievement of healthcare in all segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8845	Thank you, too, dear representative Plancic. We have a single replica on your display. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, you've made a very good point. The collapse and the very purpose of the existence of health homes began in 2003 with the regulation of Minister Vlahusic, who, at the time, was the head of Sisak-Moslavina County without respecting the specificities of the areas in which the primary health care was even carried out. I remember well that if by March 31st, 2003, no, the county doesn't reorganize its health homes into a home of health, we won't get decentralised funds. It literally said so about the regular, regular activity of the home of health. It was then that the collapse of primary health care began and in 2006 and 2008 and you established this for example in the Split-Dalmatia County. It began and tried to re-establish health homes where they were needed. The fact that every area, and you're talking about islands, not only big but small islands, I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, which is 52% in the Homeland War of occupation, which means that it's also a special state concern. Not the population of that county is uneven. So you have large cities and centres where you have very many inhabitants, and you have edge parts along Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Banovina where you have a small number of settlements. By abolishing some people's health homes, you've put them in a position to travel to a doctor, to specialists, even over 150 km. This was made in 2003 by this decision on primary health care, organized at a county health home, and you made it very good when it started.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8847	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the Đurđica Plancic's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8848	I did say that in 2003 a law was passed that required us to integrate our home of health in the county. However, I also know that from 2003 to 2012, there was enough time and too much time to spot errors, if 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8849	Please. Thank you very much. The next debate is the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8850	Thank you. I will also, at the beginning of this debate, read the amendment since the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government discussed this law and proposed, therefore, an amendment to Article 2 to follow the word of the units, to add the word local. What was said enough, therefore, and the session itself was held on 23 May 2012, which speaks enough about how we started again without the local self-government even in the adoption of this Law amending and supplementing the health care law although we are, only an assessment of the situation and basic issues that are being regulated by the proposed law, a series of local self-government, the local self-government was said by Agent Cain. Who is impoverished, devastated, I regret that he is now gone because I did not want to use the Rules of Procedure to correct the incorrect allegations in that notice. However, I don't understand how as a representative, here all this time he supported with most of the Kukuriku coalition, supported poverty, the destruction of units of local self-government that in any case. In addition to this submission, there is nothing they can do because they simply do not have financial opportunities, nor the financial capacity to monitor the development of health care facilities in local self-government units. Also in the county as a regional self-government, they do not have adequate financial resources to put health care on a higher level. This is the result, first and foremost, of those first amendments and additions to the Law to local self-government. The result of the Tax Act where HDZ first changed the law by taking a profit tax, and that was also a bad law, where the profit tax went exclusively to the company headquarters so that the city of Zagreb exclusively benefited from the profit tax. And in their account with Bandic, the united HDZ and SDP put the profit tax into the state register, i.e. the state budget. The new mini tax reform, and then before Linic's minimum tax reform was 8% of all tax revenues to all local and regional self-government units including the city of Zagreb, 92% of the state. After Linic's mini tax reform, the ratio is far higher than the state budget. It goes somewhere around 96.5%, and only 3.5% goes towards local and regional units, or regional self-government. As the HDSSB club, we also had amendments, as well as the bill's proposal, wishing indeed to have fiscal decentralisation in Croatia. However, our mouths are full of local self-government, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Kukuriku Coalition. However, since fiscal, and decentralisation, there is no dead letter on paper since decentralisation, because all that happens and brings to the Croatian Parliament is total fiscal and general centralisation, centralisation of Croatia. Health care except for homes of health, hospitals that are due, either to directors, or poor administrations, or policies at the end, which set them up, many hospitals, many homes of health are at great losses. And it is no wonder that an artificial hook in Rijeka stands more than in Zagreb or Osijek, etc. But I'm in the health care system anyways, and the maternity wards are coming in. The birthplaces that are missing in Croatia especially in cities, especially in larger municipalities, especially in cities such as Djakovo, the town of Makarska, the town of Sinj, the town of Imotski, Supetar na Brač, which is forgotten. I will just remind you that on 3 January 2012, I reiterated my belief, so in what was promised in that plan 21 that eventually became a plan 25, a plan with a higher VAT from which they proposed that at least 1% go towards local self-government units and thus they would also start the Croatian economy, health care, education, sport and everything else. So, on January 3, 2012, I sent a letter to the government of the Republic of Croatia, to the hands of President Zoran Milanovic, in which I explained to him, the first letter in which I had warned in 2006 about the poor equipment of the children's maternity centre, and not enough financing of that part of health care in the city of Đakov, then Minister of Health, Social Care Neven Ljubicicic, and I repeated these memos to Minister Milinović and Prime Minister Mr. Kosor and the other Ivo Sanader. So, since 2006, all those who have changed in the positions of the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister to this day have not received a single response to the school's birthplace. I remind myself that in 2008, nearly 65,000 inhabitants were born and the last Djakovcanin was born in that birthplace somewhere between 700 and 900 children and that the city of Djakovo, and similar to these other cities, was lost to its, primarily the city of Djakovo, Djakovcanina and Djakovčana at birth, so I will only remind myself of one of the Viennans who, that year and the following years, was extremely popular, although no alkara is born in Sinj, but there are also no beqari in Djakovo. The birthplace was closed in 2010 and in 2009, so several months before that same birthplace from the same ministry was declared the birthplace of friends and children. What I am asking as mayor, as well as the representative of the HDSSB, for this Croatian government to finally demonstrate both by work and by decision, and by means of means that this birthplace in Djakov is working, to be equipped. But also in Sinj, Makarska, Imotski and Supetar in Brač. Because don't be fooled, what happened on the road from Makarska to Split can always happen. It can always happen that a mother dies in an ambulance, but also that a newborn dies because of the rapids or left or right, in order not to recognize what you end up being chosen. That is why I ask the Ministry of Health and the Minister himself, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister to finally speak out loud and clear when the funds for these five maternity homes will be provided, when the Government and the Minister will make a decision on the financing and equipping of the maternity sites both in Djakov, both in Makarska, Sinj, Imotski and Supetar in Brač. And please don't give I'm bringing the end, the last sentence. [[Intruder Leko: Bring an end to the respected representative.]] And please don't make a promise that it will be very soon, soon, etc. This is what the citizens of Djakov and all these cities expect from the Croatian government to serve these citizens, not to serve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8851	Thank you very much. A replica from the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8852	Comrade Vinkovic, you mentioned decentralisation in health care. I think the health care system is one of the most centralized systems Croatia has. And every minister who's ever run a health resort has made every effort to keep it even more central, but not just through the money that you've mentioned, but also by managing it. So, primary health care is at stake. In an organisational sense, it was destroyed in Croatia at the moment when we began to abolish our homes of health, began to rent primary health care as if this Croatia had never had an Andrija Printar and a model that he had designed in Croatia at his own time. Today, many European Union countries are introducing as the best model for organising primary health care. You can give authority to the municipality and the city to establish a network of primary health care, but if the minister does not approve a sufficient number of specializations in primary health care and pediatrics, then we will still have a situation that one pediatrician has 10,000 patients or gynecologists, and local self-government on the system of approval specialization has absolutely no impact. So, we're broke. Nobody wants to hear that. Secondary hospital health care with whom HZZO concluded a contract with the county or hospital? Hospital. Ministers all, referring to the Law on Institutions, argue that hospital losses must be held by the county as founders. 85% of the hospital budget expenditure determined by this same HZZO is, according to a collective contract, the cost of employees signed by the minister, and then the mayor is responsible if the hospital has gone into losses because it says it is decentralised. What's decentralisationd? Nothing's decentralised. The only thing that's decentralised is the commitments and the floscules, so put in extra money if you want better health care. Pharmacy network in Croatia that has been established In 2001 and 2002, it also shows the same problem. [[Intruder Light: Time.]] The infirmary works until 7:00, and the pharmacy closes at 5:00. What does the ambulance in the village mean when the pharmacy is closed at 5:00?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8853	Replica response, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8854	Thank you. We've got ambulances in the village but there's no pharmacy. We even have villages where the post office was, so now mail is lifted, etc. But speaking of decentralisation if you listened well, I was talking about centralization of Croatia in every respect from health care, education to any sphere of life. Apparently, some new gods appeared who wanted to be completely above all of us and to centralize and what little was decentralised. I remind you that it plays with 2% of those decentralised assets that should have allowed the lives of local self-government units from income tax 1.5% according to local self-government units, 0.5% according to the area of regional self-government has led to a ridiculous situation that the Lika-Senj County, based on this increase in income tax as a percentage of 2%, has received around 9800 kuna. This means that if the mayor or mayor of Gospić has one 20, 30 guests can take them to the lamb and not deal with decentralisation functions. At the same time, these decentralised functions now show a lack of funds in primary schools, secondary schools, health homes, hospitals, etc., etc. So it's my call to the cowards to finally come to their senses and realize that this Croatia leads to the slogan "Let's move on" that the other Ivo advocated. Not in prosperity, not in economic recovery, but in the abyss.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8855	Thank you. And finally the word is Mr. Representative Mladen Marelić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8856	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think we skipped something and forgot a lot. I came from the county as soon as my colleague Gjurdja said, with five health homes formed in the 1990s. None of them have been lifted and everyone's in office today. But the consent of everyone in the county that's left, it works and it's done well. Unfortunately, the introduction of an emergency that has been tried today has put individuals at risk their very lives on the islands and the entire coastal line. When we know here are colleagues who say things, they may forget and... sometimes words don't use that aren't worthy of this place. I respect or people from our own area travel for five hours with an ambulance so they can get to the first hospital, travel for five hours. And someone's telling stories about how hard it is. The complete situation in all of Croatia is what it is. The situation is that today on the ground is much more complex because the resources are not that the current government will not use them and let them fit, but that is the situation that we have certainly found a difficult situation in the state register. We're looking at the network organisation of the emergency network happened at that level that cities and municipalities that weren't with the current authorities when they were not consulted at all for the organisation of these networks, so it was one big problem that arose in the service itself. When we see today that nurses and doctors are on duty, the sister has 12 kunas per hour, doctor 24. At least let our county know that sisters and doctors wrote a petition and sent some time to petitions where they wrote that they would stop working that way. That's how they found out who the organization is because it's the county's proposal to organise these things. When we look at the equipment of health homes, it must have been good at the time, and today it is very good equipment. Unfortunately, the emergency services we introduced T1 don't use it today. It happens quite often that we have the transport of a patient who can't use it at all, because that's the kind of device that was brought in in 2010, I mean, in the 11th year that the structure went there, that there's no triage of these patients at all, but that's what an ambulance puts it in and drives to the hospital for 5 hours. And the equipment that's in those health homes isn't used at all. So it's a difficult situation on the ground and their disorganization. I think the minister well rated that the amendment to this law and I think that this law should be changed as quickly as possible, I think an emergency procedure is justified because we need to say the problem urgently. but I think the justification for amending the law when the representative of the HDZ Club just made an observation about the urgency of the procedure. It means we still have an excuse to pass this law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8857	You're staying, Mr. Representative, on the matter of the Rules of Procedure's injury. Here you go, Mr. Agent Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8858	Article 208 and Article 214 have been injured, Mr. President, I don't know if you've been listening to an esteemed colleague. Pointing his hand to me, he said that the MP was saying things. You can listen to that. And on the other hand, it demeans other MPs, and I'd like to ask you, given that I'm going to say something now that you're giving me a heads-up as well as your colleagues. Your colleague is obviously in the head of an internal and external enemy. You haven't left the SK yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8859	Please, please, it's about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and you've picked up a replica. You can do the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8860	How about right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8861	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8862	Well, here's what I'm gonna get at right now. So a lawyer who talks, at least says what he thinks, doesn't say what the party tells him, because I know a good system don't kid yourself. On the other hand, I was talking about 5 birthplaces Djakovo, Imotski, Sinj, Makarska and Supetar in Brač. I was talking about the death of a newborn on the way from Makarska to Split and God never let that happen again. That's why I don't see the reason for your words like that. This request is not only the request of MPs Vinkovic and HDSSB, go to these cities, maybe when you go on vacation jump to Supetar in Brac, when you cool your feet in the Adriatic Sea and ask what those citizens think because many of them have been cut off and the speedboats and ferrys from Brac to Split, so I'm afraid something like that might happen on that sea route. And from 3 January 2012 to the former Statehood Day on 30 May 2012, I think it would be politically correct and cultural, if not humanly correct and culturally respond to one legitimate request from the city of 30,000 inhabitants. And what you've brought local self-government units into by mini tax reform, you know that yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8863	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8864	The gentleman said words I didn't say. I didn't even show my hand because when you can listen, if you listen, then you can listen to the word, and you can't see it. I didn't even think about it. I didn't even point my hand at the gentleman. If he's in a situation like this, I think he finds himself in his own discussion, no matter how he discusses it, it's his right. I can tell you I haven't been taught to prepare the discussions before, I've last reported it, and I've prepared it based on the presentation of the minister and the exhibitor when it started, so I've written here, and I don't have any at my party, I've never learned to talk, and I don't think that any one of us knows our own, we have our heads, we're thinking about it, and we're discussing it here in this House with our senses. And yet I'm also suggesting to visit Hvar, Brač and Lastovo, sir I'm from Korčula so I can see Lastovo, Mljet from my house. If I were on Hvar, Brač and Lastovo more than certainly you in Dalmatia, I am so much more on islands than there and because I am a representative from that Xth electoral unit and I visit them and I know life on those islands and the difficulties that are happening. And how we're just as threatened as much of this county as we are about the space distance for emergency services and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8865	Before I give my word to the next MPs who have responded to the replica now I say Mr. MP Vinkovic, you really had no right to raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you did not prove anything. You haven't proved anything, but it's very signifying and significant that you, who often show a certain relationship to everyone in this room, I'm not going to define it now, which is not always appropriate, now a gesture that I haven't seen since I can't see all the comments as incompetence. I ask you once again to be tolerated, but to others a little, not just yourself. That please, that's what I'm asking. So the replica, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8866	Your Honor, Mr. President. So, dear colleague, you were talking about the emergency medical emergency. I'd take this opportunity and I'm glad that the Deputy Minister is listening very carefully here. In the past, we have also warned of a great illogicality and danger that occurs in the functioning of emergency medical care, especially those where it is united as a county institution. So we have a situation that you have on the ground, I'm going to give an example of Osijek-Baranja County, it's urgent in Osijek, but you have health homes in Valpovo, in lower Miholjc, in Beli Manastir, Đakov, Nasice. So they have their own checkpoints there, and there are emergency medical teams: doctor, technician, driver. However, when the team leaves for the field, the space remains empty. In order not to be empty in it must remain at least one nurse or one technician, an expert inside, that what has been happening to us in the last few months, that patients come across the closed door. What's the problem, Mr. Deputy Minister, and here I'm using this as a replica, so please pay particular attention when you decide on emergency medical attention. It can't happen that the burden, clearly, is that the principal organized the service so that he has a nurse or technician inside because he can't let someone with an emergency come to him, a child can choke and kiss a closed door. These 20 nurses or technicians, because for them 5 to work in four shifts takes 20, goes to the burden of that facility. It has to be recognised in the contract by HZZO, you understand. So that fourth member has to stay inside because he is in the function of providing emergency medical attention. These 20 employees annually cost emergency medical aid to Osijek-Baranja County 3 million kuna. Now imagine what could be done in terms of education and equipment with these 3 million kunas and it is simply unreasonable that HZZO does not want to do, so grant payment and those people who are not sitting there for themselves but to be in the function of providing emergency medical attention. And here's only if I can use one more sentence, and once again warn about the illogicality. A colleague, Lesar, spoke of not approving specializations in primary protection. No, they've recently been approved at the request of the Director of Health Services, but we have a situation where the minister approves the specialization at the request of the Director, and HZZO won't approve the funds to pay for that specialization, you understand. That's all. That's two things that would be good to pay attention to within the Ministry, that you do one thing, and HZZO the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8867	Thank you, too. Look, we've updated these devices with as much information as anyone in the Rules of Procedure can speak. I ask you once again to look when you're talking, control yourself so you don't have any light bulbs here anymore. You've been here a minute. We tolerate that, but look, please. It's all right, no. But that's what you guys do all the time, so I'm asking you to control it a little bit. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8868	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, an esteemed colleague I noticed in your opening statement that you said that five health homes were not abolished in your county. Well, it shouldn't be lifted. Are we gonna end it all? So we need to provide people with access to health care, if necessary and co-financed, but to decentralize certain funds. Well, our Slavonian villages, the islands, it's a wasteland, dear friends. If you cancel his bank, if you cut his mail, if you cut his school, it all goes to big cities and goes to third countries, EU countries continue. Our Slavonic villages are truly desolate. I come from Vrpolje. In my Vrpolje at the intersection of roads and tracks today you have 50 houses with gas, electricity, water go in and live. And we really need to make an extra effort, we can't do it overnight, but one reasonable policy doesn't bring people back to Slavonian villages and islands, but keep what's left. And in this sense, I say, it was not necessary to abolish the homes of health, and to strengthen it, perhaps to abolish the administration so that there was one place to run the administration for all five homes in your county or mine.' And strengthen the work of emergency services once we've cut something off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8869	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8870	... It is not the current government or minister's fault in 2003, but it is the mayors' fault that they have not studied the law well and that they have so easily abolished their homes of health. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] We're not in our county because we were in power with the coalition and we didn't lift it. But let me just explain to you, former health minister, not that he's abolished his homes, to end everything, he's removed both medical and pharmacy sites. So five days ago, before he left the office, the pharmacy was shut down and the infirmary shut down. There's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8871	Thank you. The debate on the text of the legislative proposal is over. We'll vote the day after tomorrow, probably when business conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8872	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 91st, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Club of HNS Representatives. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Deputy Minister of Health Marijan Cesarik. First, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8873	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, amendments to the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government shall not be accepted to the public health service network with the prior opinion of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Institute for Public Health, the competent chambers and representative bodies of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government shall be brought by the Minister. Namely, the Health Protection Act clearly defines the founders of health institutions. The Republic of Croatia is the founder of state health institutions, clinics as independent institutions, clinical hospitals, clinical hospital centres. Regional Self-Government, therefore, are the founders of general hospitals, health homes, the Institute of Emergency Medicine, the Institute of Public Health, and units of local self-government are not the founders of health institutions. Therefore, the amendment of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government cannot be accepted, therefore, because the units of local self-government are not the founders of health institutions covered by the public health service network.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8874	Thank you very much. We do not have a board president, so we must make a statement by voting on a proposed amendment that the government does not accept. Who's up for the proposed amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority, so it didn't pass. We're moving on to the amendments to the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go, Deputy Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8875	Amendment 1 to Article 2 is therefore not accepted on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8876	Representative for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8877	Well, I'd like to ask that if you could explain a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8878	We can, for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8879	Therefore, the public health service network shall be governed by the territory of the Republic of Croatia or the unit of the regional self-government of the required number of health institutions and private healthcare professionals with which the HZZO concludes a health care contract. The criteria for setting up a public health care network shall be laid down by a health care plan aimed at implementing healthcare in the health care system of the Republic of Croatia: tasks and objectives of health care, priority areas, health needs of the population of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia, specific needs and opportunities for the achievement of health care in certain areas, the basis for the development of health activities by level, including training and training of personnel, and the basis for the development of the health care system and criteria for determining the public health care network, respecting the availability of healthcare in areas. Health care in the Republic of Croatia is provided and implemented in a single system of health activities at primary, secondary and tertiary levels and levels of health institutions, which are functionally connected and harmonised, depending on the scope and complexity of businesses and on the specificity of certain areas. Therefore, for reasons of comprehensiveness, continuity and availability of healthcare, the amendment cannot be accepted that the public health services network is brought by congregations, local or regional, regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8880	Thank you very much. Here's the explanation we heard. I'm asking the representative of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8881	Given the reasons and the inability to actually fully address this proposal that we have made in the amendment, it is about decentralisation of powers on regional self-government, the HNS will withdraw the amendment, but we expect the ministry to pass a deeper law at the latest in terms of decentralisation of powers and resources towards regional self-government, which is the founder of the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8882	Thank you very much. So the amendment, I find the amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 2 to Article 3 Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8883	It's also not acceptable. So Amendment 2. The HNS representative's club to add Article 109 of the 3rd article, which reads: "The Emergency Medical Assistance Teams Network brings the representative body of the regional self-government unit in the areas of the counties to the proposal of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute with the consent of the Ministry of Health" is not accepted for the same reason as Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8884	I ask the applicant of the amendment to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8885	So we're withdrawing the amendment in the same sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8886	I also find that this amendment has been withdrawn. I thank the Deputy Minister. And I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 24 against and 7 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I think this is a good time to stop working today and continue on Wednesday. So on Wednesday, June 27th, at 9.30 p.m., we continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on the Ombudsman. Have a nice weekend, everybody.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8887	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a Decision declaring "Day of the Rights of Persons with Mental Disturbation" in the Republic of Croatia The Proposer of the Decision is the Committee on Health and Social Care. You've received the proposal earlier. When making a decision, provisions for the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate as provided for in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Ms. Representative Ana Komaraić Devčić, on behalf of the Proposer, on behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8888	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. So, the Committee on Health and Social Care proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make the following decision, it is a decision to declare "Days of Persons with Mental Disturbation" in the Republic of Croatia with the following explanation: - Declaration 6 June On the day of the right of persons with mental disorders in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is placed in countries that are ahead of the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders, and based on the fact that we have a 130-year tradition of protecting the rights of persons with mental disorders. The special marking of that day of dedicated rights of persons with mental disorders is justified also in view of their unequivocally specific position in all societies and in all times. In this way, all social, professional and legal activities aimed at a full and zero limited right to equal treatment conditions as all other patients in any other medical field would be encouraged. The right to remove any Stigmatizing, discriminatory relations with them by any individual or any institution. The right to at least restrictive measures where there are justified reasons for temporary or permanent restriction of their rights. The right to protect property according to equal standards that apply to all other citizens. The right to competent representation in all proceedings where they themselves are unable to protect their own interests, the right to treatment during the course of criminal proceedings and the exercise of a sentence or the right to equal conditions of trial as all other citizens in any area of criminal or civil law. From this point on, I would once again suggest on behalf of the Health and Social Care Committee of the Croatian Parliament that we make a decision to declare the Day of Rights of persons with mental disorders on 6 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8889	Does a government official want to take a word on this proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Whether he wanted someone on behalf of the board, it's not on behalf of the board, because only this committee has been discussing it, and they've been manifesting themselves as proposing. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8890	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Spiritual disorders due to the relatively high prevalence of the frequent start in the younger adult age of possible chronic course of life disturbances of the individual and his family and a significant share in the use of health care are one of the priority public-health problems. This was also seen by the Croatian Institute of Public Health when he formed the Journal of Psychosis in Croatia in 1961, which had certain tasks now not to list, but another group, it is necessary to say that a group of mental disorders and behavioural disorders participated 6% to 7% in the overall hospital improvement for years, while according to the number of days of hospital treatment, the leading group. And mental disorder is caused by alcohol and schizophrenia is the leading diagnostic category in hospital pain. And this is saying enough for itself that really these disorders need to be paid attention, but as we are here today in terms of adoption, so marking the days of mental illness, it's certainly justified. Given their unequivocally specific position in all societies and all times that are dominantly conditional, thus reducing their personal capacities to represent their own interests and in achieving the universal rights and freedoms of every man. Therefore, they are temporarily and permanently in need of special assistance and support in a particular area where they are not sufficiently equated with other categories of patients today. So we have to be just and say that there is no such thing as concern for those suffering from mental disorders with us today, but that in Croatia there is a relatively long tradition. It's about 130 years old, a tradition of sheltered persons with mental disorders. Namely, June 6, 1880, by order number 11. 1324. The Royal Earth Government, the department of the internally adopted Statute of the Royal Earth Institute for the Brainy Stenjevac, as this clinic is now called, the Sparrow Hospital. And this statute, whose humanistic and professional settings are in many ways current today, is one of the most important documents in the history of Croatian efforts aimed as well as possible at ensuring the right of persons with mental disorders. So, with the marking of this day, there is one in the historical sense, but on today's day, so declaration 6. June, on the day of a real person with mental disorders. The Republic of Croatia is placed in countries that are preceding the protection of the rights of persons with mental disorders. In order to encourage all social, professional and legal activities aimed at a full and zero limited right to equal treatment conditions as all other patients in any other area have. Medical care, the right to remove any Stigmatizing, discriminatory relations with them by any individual or institution. The right to at least restrictive measures where there are justified reasons for the temporary or permanent restriction of their rights. The right to protect property according to equal standards that apply to all other citizens. The right to competent representation in all proceedings in which I am unable to protect my interests. The right to treatment during the course of the criminal proceedings and to enforce penalties and the right to equal conditions of the trials as all other citizens in any area of criminal and civil law. So they're all very clear and precise, all rights as such. And therefore, marking the Day of Rights of persons with mental disorders on June 6th in accordance with the highest humanistic, democratic and legal standards. It should be one of the most important reasons for the practical verification of the results achieved so far for proposing and implementing new measures aimed at the realisation of the rights of this vulnerabilitating population. And for their implementation in day-to-day social, legal and psychiatric practices. I think everything is clearly said and that in any case, so it must strengthen us with the marking of this day on June 6th. Strengthening that daily we point to a still wide range of unsecured rights of persons with mental disorders. We should encourage all activities moderated to transform universally accepted principles into daily practice of Croatian psychiatry and promote a fair relationship of the entire Croatian society towards people with social interference. Accordingly, the HDZ club will support the proposal to declare the day of June 6th the rights of persons with mental disorders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8891	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8892	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Spiritual illnesses, though likely exist from the beginning, change their social status, clinical image, course, treatment methods and prognosis during the development of humanity. In primitive societies of the mental patient, the most commonly considered to be a disgrace, punishment, curse, and the like. There were companies that burned social patients at the stake, punished them, isolated them as criminals, lepers, and the like. Back in the 19th century, in most European countries the status of a mental patient was similar to that of serious criminals. Today, the status, or equality before the law of all, declares the Constitution and state throughout the world, as well as our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But looking at the world around you and living around you is the question of how much are we really in our first equals? Principles on the protection of mentally ill persons and the improvement of the protection of mental health adopted in 1991 state that everyone has the right to the best possible protection of mental health within the health and social system. Their rights should be guaranteed and implemented with respect for dignity and without discrimination. Treatment should be conducted in an environment appropriate to their needs and physical protection for both themselves and other persons, and the treatment plan should be individualised in order to be appropriate to each patient personally. The principles particularly highlight the right of patients to privacy, freedom of faith and freedom of communication. If we visit any of the mental illness hospitals, we ask the question of how much the situation in the Republic of Croatia is in line with those standards and how much time it takes to implement some of these settings. But what can be seen in recent years is a certain shift to a better one, though still small, but it does express a tendency to move better living conditions of mental patients. He is a mental patient, unfortunately often still as high as his family. Psychological institutions and staff dealing with mental patients have also been stigmatized. Especially worrying are the lack of capacity, outdated equipment, deroute rooms and sanitary nodes, and the need to build additional space divided into departments in which patients are situated according to their problems with appropriate care and treatment, as well as staff in charge and qualified for their treatment and rehabilitation. And although, by declaring the right of persons with mental disorders in the Republic of Croatia, we will not solve the problems that these persons and institutions face. At least it will be an opportunity to make some mistakes even the conditions improve. And that's why the HNS club will be happy to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8893	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8894	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Deputy Minister. Here is due to relatively high prevalence, then frequent chronic flow, and also early in adolescence, or early adult mental or mental health disorders are one of the public health priorities in Croatia. And this declaration of Mental Health Day is actually an opportunity for a unique campaign at the world level, i.e. now at the Croatian level that emphasizes the promotion of mental health, i.e. directs attention to the problem that such patients have, and also their families. Here we heard just before that Croatia has a long tradition, 130 years of tradition of mental health. However, we can also say that one of the few European countries that has not identified a single real important step towards organising a community mental disorder service according to the recommendations of the World Health Organization. We also know that we have a National Strategy for Mental Health. However, it is not being implemented, and it also highlights the lack of exactly these non-patient centres, which is one of the main problems of the health care system and of the social system for such patients. We believe that social support is a desirable social environment. They are very important and can affect the outcome of treatment and improve the quality of life of mental illnesses. And there is much more to be invested in prevention, or protection of mental health. The goal is, of course, early detection, diagnosis, treatment of mental disorders, and the success of treatment reduces the number of relapses and leads naturally to a better, actually functioning individual. We ask ourselves very often what is the number of people suffering from mental illness. It is monitored on the basis of epidemiological data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and it is actually based on hospital statistics. And according to the data, the number of hospital treatments is unfortunately on the rise especially when it comes to PTSD and depression, and we mentioned a little before schizophrenia, a very difficult disease that is most often hospitalized and therefore said to be the most expensive. However, schizophrenic patients are often hospitalized, and support on the ground is very important because in this way it would actually reduce relapse or reduce the re-patientisation of such patients. It's also mentioned in the Stigma. Stigmatisation actually causes a great suffering of patients, significantly reduces the quality of the disease and their families, or their environment. Training patients for better social functioning after leaving the hospital is very important. So it involves rehabilitation and rehabilitation, that is, all the rights listed in the opening statement that I am not repeating them here right now. Outpatient care can be done through personal assistants and support teams in a home that could be organised through civil society and could be further organised at such a level. This form of care is also compatible with hospital and ambulatory treatment and is actually such an excellent complement to medical care. Of course, this is medical care, but it's extra-institutional. In this way, they would actually avoid that rude hospitalization, which would certainly be a small number of hospitalizations, because, unfortunately, such hospitals are very common both by force and by force, the police come with handcuffs, etc. which is additional stress for both patients and the environment, i.e. for his family. As a representative of local self-government and executive authorities, I work very closely with associations of parents of these patients. I'm aware that local self-government has a big role to play in this. And I'm going to show you about what it's like to take care of mental patients from a parent's corner. In fact, mental patients are mostly cared for by parents, mostly by mothers. Very often these mothers receive frustrations and aggression from their daughters, sons not only because of the nature of the disease but because they are unfortunately the only ones they communicate with. And the frustration comes from such patients stemming from loneliness, from rejection, and they all want to live as normal as all of us. Unfortunately, I repeat my treatment to frequent hospitalizations, mostly after aggressive outbursts, the absence of medical therapy. And speaking of which, the supervision of therapy is unfortunately done by those mothers or other family members, not medical staff or family doctor, patronage sister, etc. which could be done with those mobile teams I mentioned earlier. Also, families who have such patients are very common in our isolation society. And in the end, unfortunately in the end, such families often hide such patients. It's a shame for us. And then he shows up late for treatment, and the help of such a patient, the mental patient, is very often exactly proportional to the previous detection, i.e. the earlier occurrence of this patient. Protecting and caring for mental patients, sick people. Except that it falls within the area of classical psychiatry it is, however, as we see a social problem, that is, a public health problem, creating better conditions for these fellow citizens, relatives, family, people. Unfortunately, so far, it depends only on the sacrifice and enthusiasm of individuals and doctors who are very often initiators of parent gatherings in the association of parents of patients who are mental patients. It is time as a modern society, i.e. as a responsible society, to raise awareness of such patients and that such people depend not only on the help of parents, neighbors, family, friends, but actually get rid of such patients in such a systematic way. And this way I express my support for all the parents who have gathered for the same problem, which is because they have mentally ill people in their family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8895	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8896	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDSB club will support the proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Rights of persons with mental disorders in the Republic of Croatia. But here we also want to point to the current state of mind in the problem of mental, mental disorders and behavioural disorders in Croatia. And according to certain assessments of disease burdens for Croatia, mental and neurological disorders are second among leading groups, in men with a 20.7% share, and in women with a 25.6% share. Also among the 10 leading causes of individual diagnostic categories are three common mental and mental disorders. A unilateral, depressed disorder of 7.5% in the third place follows mental disorders caused by alcohol of a proportion of 4.7%, and Alzheimer's and other dementias with a share of 2.6% in the 7th place. The mental or mental disorders themselves are involved with a share of 6% to 7% in the overall hospital improvement in Croatia, and the highest number of hospitalizations aged 20 to 59 which places them in the leading causes of hospital pain in the working age. In addition, every 4 or 5 days of hospital treatment is used for mental, mental disorders and are also the leading group of hospital pain patients using the day of hospital treatment. In 2010, a total of 41,144 hospitalizations were registered due to mental disorders, and this 7.2% group was in 7th place in the overall hospital improvement in Croatia. In addition, millions of 448 thousand 976 days of hospital treatment were used for mental or mental disorders and participated in 23.6% as a leading group in the total number of days of hospital treatment. According to subgroups, the most common diagnosis of mental and mental disorders is a group of schizophrenia, schizotype and suspected disorder, mental disorder caused by taking psychoactive substances, an infectious disorder, a neurotic related stress and somatophoric disorder, and an organ-symptomatic-spiritive disorder. The mental disorder caused by alcohol, schizophrenia, depression and severe stress reactions including post-rheumatic stress disorder PTSD as individual diagnosis represent almost 2/3 of all causes of hospital pain due to mental and mental disorders. Significant differences are also recorded in the hospital’s gender improvement. In 2010, men were mostly hospitalized for mental disorders caused by alcohol, schizophrenia, severe stress reaction including PTSD, while women were mostly hospitalized for depressive schizophrenia disorders, other mental disorders caused by brain dysfunction and physical illness, and mental disorders caused by alcohol and schizoaffective disorders. In 2010 age, therefore, these are data produced by the Institute of Public Health, since new data do not exist but they can also be a credible fact and these discussions. So up to 9 years old in 2010 there was more hospitalization of boys than girls. The most common reasons for hospitalisation were due to specific language development disorders, and motor functions, followed by pervasive developmental disorders and other behavioural and emotional disorders. Between the ages of 10 and 19, there was also almost double the hospitalisation of boys. The most common reasons for hospitalisation were mixed behavioral and emotional disorders, mental disorders, alcohol - related behavioral disorders, and emotional disorders, as well as severe stress reactions. Between the ages of 20 and 39, there was double the hospitalisation of men, and the leading causes of hospitalisation were schizophrenia, alcohol-induced mental disorder, severe stress including PTSD. Between 40 and 59 years of age, there were 2.5 times more hospitalisation of men than women, and the leading causes of hospitalisation were mental disorder caused by alcohol, depression, schizophrenia, severe stress reactions including PTSD. At the age of 60 and over, women are more hospitalized than men, and the most common reasons for hospitalisation were psychiatric syndromes, mental disorder caused by brain damage and dysfunction, alcohol-induced mental disorder, and severe stress. At the level of primary health care in Croatia mental or mental disorders are involved with a total share of 4 to 5%, and in 2010, 593 thousand 647 diagnosis was registered and this group with a share of 5.2% was in the 8th place. Thus, the highest number of diagnosiss is approximately 65% registered for the age of 20 to 64 years; mental or mental disorders at primary health care level are one of the leading causes of pain in the working age. The analysis at primary health care level according to the 2010 housing districts shows that mental and mental disorders took part in the overall improvement of the county with a share of 4% of the city of Zagreb to 7.2% of Vukovar-Srijem County, and the total number of diagnosis of mental and mental disorders at 10 thousand inhabitants according to the counties shows enough that one of the major diseases is precisely mental and mental disorders. In the Register of Persons with Disabilities, 136115 persons whose causes of disability or co-morbid diagnosis contribute to functional impairment and a group of mental disorders and mental retardation, which is about 26% of all the causes of disability, and the most common causes of disability that contribute to functional damage to a person are related to stress with a share of about 30%. In terms of mortality, mental or mental disorders are less frequently cited as the primary cause of death and in Croatia, between 1.5% and 2%, and in 2010, 1001 deaths were registered due to mental or mental disorders and 1.9% were found at the seventh death site in Croatia. The most common diagnosis was mental disorders caused by alcohol 265 cases, unspecified dementia 314 cases, personality disorders, stress, brain damage and dysfunction of 258 cases. From this point on, it is clear that the disease, or mental and mental disorder, is one of the major diseases in the Republic of Croatia, and I hope that these percentages are one of the most important in the percentages of the Republic of Croatia, will not be increased due to an increase in the price of electricity, gas, due to the decline of economic activity of 9.4%, due to the inability of pensioners to survive those months, because of the inability of workers to feed their family, because of the inability of those who work, and six and more months they have not received their salary to work to also feed their family, send their children to school, to study, that this indicator of the state of mental and mental disorders in the Republic of Croatia thanks to these great activities and the great measures that have been aimed at improving and the standard of life of all Croatian citizens will not affect the fact that these percentages increase further and that they declare us to the mad nation. So, we will support the proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Rights of persons with mental disorders, but we hope that in Croatia these percentages of people with mental and mental disorders will not increase due to the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but that we will finally welcome promises from Plan 21 that no longer exists, which remained a dead letter on paper and that we will finally live better in Croatia. But that's what it takes, gentlemen of the government, to start and work. At the very end, I want to point out the state of psychiatry for which it stands out, but not enough as for the other branches of medicine because psychiatry was always on the tail or at the end of the entire system of financing in health because of the wrong attitude that psychiatry does not require expensive apparatus or diagnostics, so it doesn't need too much money. However, the education of psychiatrists is long-term and complex, in particular on certain subspecialisations and rapidic procedures for individual disorders, such as addiction, PTSD, which requires a whole team of experts for relative and small and large numbers of patients. In addition, more should be invested in prevention and protection of mental health. Without mental health, there is no progress of the nation because its absence increases aggression, increases suicides, disability, which is why it is necessary to pay great attention to patients, but also to all those who are preparing for these great recovery measures and better life to become patients of the Ministry of Health, without the possibility of surviving for a month, without being able to get paid from which to live, without being able to educate children, send them to studies, without being able to buy a grandchild or grandchild gift for Christmas, Easter or birthday and without the possibility of living a life of a decent man. We support the proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Rights for persons with mental disorders, but start working on the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8897	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, please, Mr. Representative Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would like to correct Mr. Zoran Vinkovic's incorrect allegations that Plan 21 does not exist. He's very real and he's having a good time. We would be happy in Slavonia if the party in power in Slavonia also had any plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8899	Thank you very much. And an individual debate. Only Madam Representative Ruza Tomasic reported for an individual debate. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8900	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, of course we will support the proposal for a decision to declare the day of the right of persons with mental disorders, but we as a people tend to propose laws, decisions that we say are among the first or the best in Europe, but when it comes to implementing those laws or decisions we are not even close to, we are not even on average somewhere we preach or what we propose. Whether this proposal will remain just that as a suggestion and then we'll forget about it, we'll have one day a year where we'll think of a person with mental disorders or we'll move on. Will we have that day at least? A day of open doors in institutions where they take care of those people with mental disorders, where people can come to see what's going on, get to know these people to see that they're just people like us, that they're no monsters. Are we going to teach the children from kindergarten, from small legs, that such persons exist or I repeat whether we will forget it and pretend to be one great nation that we are facing Europe, how we take care of everyone, and in fact only declaratively once a year? A colleague of Shimac-Bonačić said that parents hide or isolate themselves from the environment. Well, of course they're hiding, a lot of them. And it's our fault that we didn't educate those parents or other children enough, and not even adults to accept that there are different ones among us. And as my colleague Vinkovic said, he wouldn't want us to be called a mad nation. Well, I don't think anyone calls us a crazy nation, but they call us all a dodgy nation because it looks like we're all closer to each other than the domicile population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8901	Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the draft decision is closed. Before that, of course, I should have said I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. Probably Friday. And you do? Excuse me. Now just, I don't have to get a consensus but everyone in the hall. So, I said that the debate was closed, but if there is someone, so I suggest we give it to the proposing representative, but we all have to agree in the hall. Do you agree? In that case, a representative of the government's proposing Mr. Cesaric, deputy minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8902	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. So, I am a representative of the Government, and the proposal is the Committee on Health and Social Care of the Croatian Parliament which delivered the opinion that the day of 6 June is declared the day of the right of mental patients. But the health ministry has delivered an opinion to the board that on June 6th it is declared the day of the right of persons with mental disorders. During the debate, you heard that mental disorder, mental illness, schizophrenia, etc. is often mentioned. It is the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders that emphasizes the need to use an expression of mental disorder, not to stegmatize people with terms of illness, disorder, etc. Therefore, the Ministry of Health supports the proposal's initiative for unequivocally positive purposes and thus declares the day of June 6th the day of the right of persons with mental disorders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8903	Thank you very much. So the debate is now closed. The text of the draft decision will most likely be voted on Friday when business conditions are obtained. The proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Rights of persons with mental disorders in the Republic of Croatia is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 124 votes, a decision has been taken to declare the day of the right of persons with mental disorders in the Republic of Croatia in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8908	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8909	Here I welcome, on behalf of all of us, Mrs. Anku Slošnjak, Attorney General, for the person with the disability I give my word to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8910	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, thank you for giving you the opportunity to present a report on the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities for 2011. With the establishment of a separate Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities who began working exactly 4 years ago, the Republic of Croatia has shown its view that this group of Croatian citizens also needs additional visibility in the human rights protection system. Rights, positions and problems affect people with disabilities in all areas of life and affect a number of groups that, apart from persons with disabilities, include both their families and their loved ones. The inclusion in the community of disabled persons is a prerequisite for their exit from isolation, overcoming poverty and the status of addiction, and is only possible with the provision of the necessary forms of support and respect for their needs, positions and other support that is necessary to be equal and on an equal basis with others. Although activities have been undertaken over the past years, adopted programmes and policies aimed at equating opportunities, we cannot say that people with disabilities are sufficiently equally involved in the community in all areas of the Republic of Croatia and at all levels. We acted in three directions in accordance with the work round laid down in the Law on Advocates in 2011. Addressing individual cases for the purpose of protecting the right of interest in promotional educational activities in order to raise awareness and education on the needs of persons with disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities by Regions technicalated the harmonisation of national legislation with the principles of the Convention. By proposing amending or supplementing laws affecting the position and rights of persons with disabilities. During the period for which the report was submitted, we had 1446 acts. The most common complaints remained as were previous years in the field of social care, accessibility, health, employment and labour, as well as the pension system. We have also achieved 34 tours in accordance with the work cycle in order to see the rooms where they live, work, are located or are educated persons with disabilities. In order to raise awareness, we have initiated and participated in the preparation of the thematic session, here I particularly stress the thematic session that we have reorganised jointly with the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities. Just warning of the dramatic position and violation of rights in an area of autism, especially those above the age of 21. We organized stands and two international gatherings. We participated in the work of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, held a series of meetings with representatives of institutions and civil society organisations both from the country and abroad. They participated in events in the country and abroad and achieved media participation. I would like to highlight here the four stands, which we organised in Slavonski Brod, Zadar, Rijeka and Čakovec, which concern the position of women with disabilities. It is exactly where we invited representatives of the institutions of women with disabilities who pointed to current problems as well as the need for greater empowerment and inclusion of themselves in society. Here it would especially distinguish the problem, i.e. the role recognised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the countries related to associations, alliances of persons with disabilities working for the benefit of children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities. What are extremely important links in the implementation of programmes and services that improve quality, health, social security and inclusion. The state has encouraged these programmes, but has not regulated this area enough in a way to ensure sustainability and continuity in financing, transparency of business associations. We consider the inevitable participation of persons with disabilities in the adoption of regulations and policies, which regulate their rights in accordance with the Convention or its winged "Nothing about us without us." While the associations, according to the way they operate, need special status, we have sent recommendations to the competent ministries as well as to the Government on the need to ensure their viability. This system of funding and legislative arrangements. We also addressed around 270 initiatives concerning various recommendations, warnings, amendments and regulations, analysis. They were related, and in particular here they would single out some of them as protection of the right to physical therapy and ensure accessibility of persons with disabilities in the prison system. Preventing abuse and pointing to irregularities in the application of accessibility and mobility regulations. Improving systems in the field of employment and work, education and education, as well as in the field of health care. We gave opinions on the regulations sent to us by the authorities. In particular, it would single out the area of social care, given that, as with last year's reports, we received the most complaints about some of the provisions of the Social Care Act that put us in an unfavourable position of a group of people with disabilities. Doubtful interpretation of these provisions by employees of the Centre for Social Care in different areas of the Republic of Croatia. The complaints continue to arrive at incomplete information from persons with disabilities and parents of children with developmental difficulties by workers at the Social Care Centres, and what is extremely important and as far as all systems are concerned, which is an incoherence which is of primary importance for improving the situation of persons with disabilities. In last year's survey, we noticed that out of 17,000 people deprived of their business skills, more than 90% were completely deprived. Which is no doubt an incursion into fundamental human rights. Because of the lack of harmonisation of legislation, as well as the practices in the field of deprivement of business capacity and custody. With the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we organized an expert meeting. On the subject that we have gathered a number of experts, judges, witches, psychiatrists, lawyers, social workers and international experts to exchange experiences and learn about the provisions of the Convention, its meaning and obligation to apply in everyday work, and the possibilities of improving current practice. Following the meeting, the chamber was issued and guidelines were defined for future reform of the custody system and proposals for improving practice consistent with the provisions of the Family Law and Conventions. In 2011, it was marked by parliamentary elections, during which period we saw that this is an area and after 5 years of ratification of the Convention there has been no harmonisation of electoral legislation with those provisions. The problem concerns ensuring the right of all persons with disabilities, but it would still set out here persons who are located in institutions, for example. social care, i.e. institutions, as well as giving voting rights to persons with disabilities who are deprived of their business capacity. In the area of accessibility, we also continue, unfortunately, the shortcomings and disadvantages shown in last year's reports and so that persons with disabilities can achieve any right and availability of the service remains to be aware of the society that this is the basis and prerequisite for ensuring different accessibility elements. Despite the existence of a good legal regulation, the building of a building that will be accessible to all persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility is still not accessible to a whole range of services and content. While communication barriers make it difficult to include people with sensory damage. The complaints of parents in the field of education and education with developmental difficulties, due to the difficulty of getting involved in regular kindergartens. They show that despite the inclusion commitment, there is still room to improve standards that regulate the inclusion of children with difficulties in regular preschool institutions. The complaints indicate the inability to include children with disabilities in kindergarten, from non-inclusion of the child to limitation of time of stay. But also lack of adequate support in inclusion, e.g. lack of help. In elementary and high school, we also have problems. Based on the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, the obligation to adopt sublegal acts is still not adopted. A rule to define the types of difficulties on which the student is entitled to appropriate training programmes and appropriate forms of assistance has not been adopted. The rules are still in force in 1991. which are not suitable and do not ensure the achievement of equal rights of all students in the general education system. It is no less important to provide this structural support from a school without barriers, from tailored textbooks, aids, equipment, transportation, and especially properly educated teacher. Students with developmental difficulties in secondary schools equally lack forms of support from educated teacher, professional service, assistants, individualised tailored programmes, and infrastructure support. High schools have less experience of inclusive acceleration, to a lesser extent they are teamed up professional associates of various profiles, and difficulties resulting from insufficient specific education of professors. We can talk about problems in high school education. Obstructions faced by students with disabilities highlighted in the past reporting periods are still not resolved in a systematic manner. The specific needs of individual students with disabilities are the provision of sign language translators, the adaptation of literature to braille's press, transport insurance, personal assistant insurance, the procurement of aids. It is precisely these needs that are crucial for successful study with appropriate accommodation, and for providing health services and care services to students who need them daily. Statistical data on students with disabilities from various universities in the entire Croatian area is also missing. I therefore believe that experience so far should be translated into a legislative framework which would clearly define the needs, means of support and their providers, which would contribute to better involvement of stakeholders currently providing advisory, co-ordinated and concrete support services. Professional rehabilitation and employment. For people with disabilities, professional rehabilitation is a prerequisite for open labour market employment in protected conditions or other self-employment models. The regulation of the professional rehabilitation process in two regulations and two different systems cloud the fact that systematic and quality professional rehabilitation does not actually exist. The area remained unsettled and unsettled, no institutions for professional rehabilitation were established, no appropriate system of art and no adequate institutional and financial framework was established. Equally difficult is the situation in the field of employment. Very often, there is no respect for the privilege of hiring people with disabilities and the obligation to make quota employment. The issue of reasonable adaptation in the field of labour and employment, the availability of an open labour market, promotion of vocational and professional rehabilitation programmes, appropriate legislation is only part of obligations which are not sufficiently respected in these areas. The main number of complaints was precisely a violation of the right of advantage as referred to in Article 10(3). The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, so in many cases we warned employers of the necessity of respect for that right. Although it encourages the growth of employees in 2011 compared to the previous two years, their employment does not have an expected upward direction. In order for people to truly be equal with other citizens in the field of employment and work, they need a community that needs to be seen not only in projects with limited time and insecure sustainability but should be well structured and based on a multidisciplinary approach with clear objectives that rest on assessing both abilities and restrictions on disability. The disability must not be considered a synonym for incompetence. Labour is not only an interest of persons with disabilities, it is also an interest of the state since this work reduces social benefits. We should be aware that education and their employment are fundamental human rights, not a concession that depends on understanding individuals or groups that make crucial employment decisions. In the area of pension insurance, there were slightly fewer complaints than in previous years, but they mainly referred to ways of determining pension income from disability at the level of the additive for physical damage and determining the percentage of physical damage. But we have received more complaints from parents with child development difficulties who have been rejected in their request for extras for children with severe health damage and over 27 years of age. Citing discrimination against those parents who had achieved this right by 2002. On the basis of these submissions, we asked the competent authorities to act in accordance with the Constitutional Court's report, deeming it unacceptable that new users of allowances for children with severe health impairment were placed in an unequal position compared to previous users who have the right to do so after 27 years of life. We find the disputed finding that the state has committed itself to the current legal provision today to lay down regulations on persons with disabilities that have not been passed for 10 years. Although there are a number of problems in different areas, I would move on to the area of health care. I would especially single out health care for people with mental impairment, difficulties in achieving dental protection of people with intellectual impairment as well as problems in the area of procurement of orthopaedic aids. The predominant form of treatment of persons with mental impairment in the Republic of Croatia is hospital treatment, and the system of prevention and rehabilitation that should follow after hospital treatment has not been developed. The absence of an extra-patient treatment system and the lack of psychiatry in the community, and rehabilitation leads precisely to the desired effect, which is multiple hospitalisation of the resulting do-institutionalisation, social exclusion, isolation, stigmatization, loss of work capacity, and then the frequent depravation of business ability, and often completely. As a result, there is a significant entanglement in the fundamental human rights of persons with mental impairment. The area of the right to live in the community can be said that in order for people with disabilities to have an equal life in the community, it is necessary to provide a legislative framework, to implement measures for service providers in the community that will enable those persons to have the system according to their individual needs and remaining abilities. Despite the adoption of the National Plan for Deinstitutionalisation, Master of the Plan and the transformation of the social care institutions, there has been no significant reduction in the number of institutions located, nor have measures been observed in terms of the development of the necessary services in the community. The obstacles faced by persons with disabilities of various damages are socially conditioned, and there are a number of restrictions such as accessibility, education and employment issues. In the area of independent life, we received significant complaints from persons who could not exercise the right to a personal assistant. In the long term, we have proposed to pass a Law on the exercise of the right to assistance, which would allow systematic and continuous support for assistance to persons with disabilities with different types of damage based on unique criteria of disability weight and individual assessment of needs. The complaints of parties and insight into institutions have shown that there are no specialised institutions for the accommodation of people of younger age with severe physical disability, so they are located in homes for older and powerless persons. It is not acceptable for such persons to build a special institution but should seek to create living conditions that would be spatially adapted to persons in their own homes while the necessary support should be provided in the community, not that persons should be separated from the community and isolated from the institutions, even if their norms and accompanying services are tailored to their needs. The area we have been warning about for the third year in a row is the inadmissible position of people with autism in the Republic of Croatia who require urgent and coordinated intervention of the highest state bodies. Most regulations do not recognise the specificity of autism as one of the most complex disorders. Although the autism began in Croatia several decades ago instead of making progress and following world trends to date, we are lagging behind in the area of early detection of diagnostics, rehabilitation and especially in the care of adults above the age of 21 with autism. A number of correspondence and meetings at all levels with the government's presidency and the parliamentary committees did not receive a visible result during 2011. Experts who know autism, centre employees, and the UNDP proposal to transform the centre are unique in the view that an institution set up as the centre of autism should necessarily exist but should be established at state level, not one city and its services should be available in all regions of the state. We warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is essential to establish a complete system of care for people with autism in order to end their current situation in which a large part of the needs of people with autism are neglected, which seriously violates their human rights. In conclusion, I would like to say that it will take a lot of time, energy and effort to create a legal precondition for the greater inclusion of persons with disabilities in society on an equal footing with others. Even though I am aware of a situation where, at present, in Croatian society, the difficult situation of all citizens is particularly important, I would like to stress that people with disabilities and persons with developmental difficulties are particularly vulnerable and are further exposed to negative economic trends. The issue of ensuring support for equalising the opportunities of all citizens is not a matter of mercy but of human rights and the obligation of the state to respect them in times of economic difficulties. Savings on people with disabilities are not acceptable in any way because, in the long run, it can cause a number of unwanted and hard-to-revenue consequences leading to even higher costs as a result of deterioration of health and living conditions. It is vital for people with disabilities to be targeted and to respect individual needs by respecting different degrees and intensity of disability. All of us, regardless of where we live in Croatia, should be a common goal of supporting the implementation of positive legislation in order to prevent the creation of barriers in communities that can be building, communication, mobility, the use of a number of community services because no one actually knows when the once-made obstacle will become an obstacle for either of our loved ones and perhaps to us personally. Here's a thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8911	Thank you, Mrs. Attorney General, for the disabled. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. Mr Furio Radin, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8912	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee considered that report as an interested working body. In her opening statement, the lawyer for disabled people stressed that the office's actions were directed in three directions. Work on individual cases, promotional activities involving education on the rights of persons with disabilities and implementation of the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities. She stressed that according to the Croatian Register of Persons with Disabilities in Croatia, 518 thousand 061 persons with disabilities were registered. During 2011, the office had a thousand 446 actions to protect, monitor and promote the rights of disabled people. In addition, 647 subjects were received in connection with the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, which were mostly not covered by the area of social care, accessibility insurance, health care, employment and pension insurance. She pointed out that over the past year she made 31 proposals for amendments, complements and adoption into 23 regulations and 270 initiatives towards state, regional and regional self-government bodies, associations and associations of disabled persons that referred to recommendations, warnings and queries with a view to resolving individual cases of raising awareness, insurance of budgetary resources and an analysis of the existing situation. In particular, it referred to a significant reduction in the resources of more than 60% of the organisations that are providers or service providers to certain categories of disabled persons which will significantly disrupt the start-up deinstitutionalisation and decentralisation processes of assistance to these vulnerable groups. On the other hand, she stressed that all the users of these projects will return to the state care system for which neither material nor humane assumptions are provided. In the debate, the Committee members pointed out in particular the importance of achieving all projects for disabled persons and stressed that the power of a society is being looked at in its humanity. Therefore, as pointed out, it must not be spared on the most vulnerable groups of companies but must certainly be taken into account the transparency and purpose of the use of allocations. This will ensure that certain projects continue and even increase the funds for their implementation, while projects that identify certain shortcomings and failures will have to be suspended. Finally, members of the board called on the appropriate resources to consider with greater care the recommendations and initiatives of the Ombudsman with disabilities, as you will see in the conclusions as stated in the report in the most recent case. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion from two points: "1. The Ombudsman’s report for 2011 and 2 shall be adopted. Opinions, proposals and remarks presented in the debate on the report as well as observations, proposals, recommendations by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities given in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of competent authorities and bodies with public authority more effective." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8913	Thank you very much. We can move on to a club debate. I would just like to inform you the way you see yourself on these displays, so today we would have the debate up to something before 13:30 because we have a marking of the Day of the Croatian Parliament in the lobby of this hall, so this is the solemn part at the time of our break. Then we continue at three with this agenda point, so until we're done, I believe it'll be there somewhere around 17:30-18.00 because here's five representatives on behalf of clubs and 16 in an individual debate. Thank you very much. I'm opening a club debate. The first word has Mrs. Ana Comparić Devcic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8914	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Attorney-General with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the SDP club will support the prosecutor's report for persons with disabilities for 2011. We believe that the Ombudsman and her associates have done their work very well and well, and we also believe that the Ombudsman institution is more than necessary in the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities. And for this reason, we are extremely pleased that the Constitutional Court has annulled the Law on the Ombudsman and the unification of all the defences because we believe that they cannot do all their tasks and cannot deal with all the problems and difficulties they face, and the united would certainly not be able to address the specific situations they face on the ground. As it is visible from the report itself, the problem has too much, but one sentence in the report itself is I find it extremely alarming, and that is, I will quote it: "Inclusion in the community of people with disabilities is a prerequisite for their exit from isolation.". And now we can all wonder together if it's possible that in the 21st century someone, but not someone but our fellow citizens feel isolated, feel they don't have our support and feel they don't have the same opportunities. If you have carefully read this report, you will see that they face many restrictions, inability, lack of understanding of the environment, and a series of difficulties they face in their daily lives. And we also can't get the impression that even though the D.A. said in the introduction that some laws aren't the best, but laws exist, there are institutions, and in fact everything remains a dead letter on paper. If you take into account the part that only the lawyer spoke, which is related to the adjustment of public institutions to difficult mobile or fixed persons that were to be carried out by 2007, and today the lawyer cannot give us an answer as to how much the institution has adapted to persons with disabilities, then we need to ask ourselves what is going on in our society, where is legal certainty. The problem is that units of local self-government and regional self-government even though they have a legal obligation to provide data on the adjustment of institutions that do not do so and that is why the Ombudsman today cannot give us a concrete answer as to how much more institutions have to adapt to people with disabilities. If you take into account the part relating to health care, there are also numerous problems, shortcomings, from the fact that hospitals are not adequately adapted to us except newly built or newly adapted departments which are not so much in the Republic of Croatia, then you will notice that most of the departments do not have bathrooms for people with disabilities, that there is no possibility of showering, and then we can all ask ourselves how they feel when they enter our hospitals. Furthermore, if, as the Ombudsman herself stated, there is a large part of it, a problem in the education system where even in larger cities you have the possibility that children go to kindergartens, elementary, secondary schools and colleges, but what we all need is a question of what is with smaller environments. Children are left to their parents. The system must provide answers to these and such questions. If you're lucky in your life, you're a person with disabilities, and you're lucky you're a college graduate or a school graduate, it's a turn of employment. What the Ombudsman himself stated, therefore, although there are legal provisions in favour of employment in this report, it is clear that they are ignored and not applied, and work and income are a prerequisite for the independent and independent life of every person with disabilities. In this section, I would like to emphasise and underline the exceptional importance of the personal assistant project because, with work and employment, it actually serves exactly that, it ensures independence. I want to point out another paradox that meets people with disabilities, which is the introduction of a smart card. The smart card was actually introduced with the goal of keeping people with disabilities free of charge on highways. But what happened, the smart card was tied to a car and not to a person, so we made people disabled if they wanted to have a smart card that they had to buy a car that was actually unacceptable and we think that part had to be changed in law and that that card had to be tied to a person and not to a car. I would point out another problem that I consider negligible for years, and we will all agree together that we are a tourist country, that tourism is our main economic branch, but still not for people with disabilities. Few of us think probably when we go to sea in the summer whether or not our fellow citizens who are disabled want to take a bath in the sea. Because when you consider hotels on the Adriatic, there are few that are adapted to people with disabilities, if, of course, it is not considered a wheelchair ramp. What about the rooms, the bathrooms, what about the restaurants, what about the pools, and this is how it could be listed suddenly. The particular problem I want to highlight is the beaches for the disabled. Our colleagues and colleagues in the Republic of Croatia have 8 beaches for people with disabilities, 5 in Primorje-goranska and Istria County, 2 in the City of Zagreb, 1 in Split, Zadar and Vodice. It is evident from the above that the area south of Split to Dubrovnik, like all of our islands, remains unaccessible to our disabled, or disabled persons. And I believe that this approach to tourism must change. What was spoken on the Committee on Health and Social Care, and I believe that this must be highlighted, is the fact that a personal identity card should be made for a person with disabilities. And why am I saying that? We all have needs, we're not the same, we're different. I think people with disabilities should be approached flexiblely. We can't unify them, we can't determine them in principle what their needs are, they each have their own needs. We believe that the monthly amount of funds so-called funds should be introduced. a voucher that will be used by people with disabilities for their own purposes. And I'm going to tell you one very simple example to understand why I'm talking about vouchers, and that's this: if you're an incontinent person, you have the right to diapers today. And it happens to you that you haven't spent all your diapers by the end of the month, but you have the need for something other than gauze, catheters, cartridges. It expires your month, you can't take less diapers next month to get catheters, cartridges or something else you need to take the same number of diapers again. So the system has to be more flexible because, once again, we're not all the same and we don't all have the same needs. I believe that in my debate, I have opened only one smaller series of problems that people with disabilities face, I believe it is also true that we forget their difficulties many times, but that is why they are here to remind us, to warn us so that we can break down all the barriers together, regardless of what is the current situation in the Republic of Croatia is extremely difficult and what is the difficult situation of all its citizens, I believe that the situation of people with disabilities is always difficult and that we must not forget it. And what I want to say more at the very end, or I want to appeal to all of us together, please colleagues and colleagues, let's not talk about people with disabilities just from report to report. Please, we're thinking about them and then when we're passing all the laws in this High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8915	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8916	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mrs. Anka Slonjšak, Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. By reading this extensively, in detail, one of the most qualitative reports I've ever seen, I must admit that I've felt a certain amount of shame and shame how little we've done as a society for our people with disabilities, or how much we haven't done enough and how much we could have done for our fellow citizens. Although when I came to the end, I also felt a certain amount of security thanks to the fact that the head of this very important Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities, Ms. Anka Slonjak, because the report really reads her absolutely full understanding of what she's doing, what are the problems of people with different disabilities. Today we are discussing a report that must be first on the list of all the reports from the HNS club. The problem that treats reports is a problem that must be ahead of everything that we as humans should even begin to do. There is always a need for normal life in every place, and only then does everything else come to the agenda. And when discussing the budget and discussing education, culture, health, employment, security, traffic, always the first person with disabilities, then everyone else and everything else. Everywhere and in every place we all have the right to equal treatment, we are all the same before state institutions, except when it comes to people with disabilities, they have the advantage and right of the championship. Croatia is a country with a relatively high percentage of people with disabilities, over 11%. Which is clearly the result of the war. And anymore all of us who are not fortunately, we are not, people with disabilities must with full consciousness and human conscience engage in the social inclusion of all our disabled citizens, i.e. fellow citizens. In this truly comprehensive and detailed report on 200 pages for 2011 the Ombudsman for people with disabilities states that the fact that people with disabilities are in increasingly difficult social conditions and rarely live in conditions of poverty. We at the HNS Club believe that such a thing is inadmissible, and this way we call on all state institutions, especially the Ministry of Social Care to do everything to make sure that no person with disabilities lives in conditions of poverty. For people with disabilities, funds must be found to live with dignity and meet the highest standards that the community can afford. According to the report, the largest number of complaints received, requests and requests opened as a subject in 2011 were in the area of social protection, this is now quoted from the report, 106 and 23% respectively. Requests from several areas of 75, 16.2% refer to cases in which the office has handled various requests in which the parties seek advice, financial assistance, the exercise of rights in several areas or support for their initiatives, but under multiple complaints where it could not be singled out which area would be priority. The next area is accessibility where the Attorney General handled 57 cases and 12.3% of cases, respectively. In the previous year, the D.A. handled 54 cases, and 11.7%, respectively, related to the areas of health care. In the area of pension insurance there were 34 cases, i.e. 7.3%, while in the field of employment and work there were 50 cases, respectively 10.8%. Multiple counselling by the Attorney General is part of the work of the office relating to the consultation of the parties via the telephone. The majority of these consultations were related to the area of social protection, pension insurance, education and health care. As examples of issues in which persons have sought counselling, the application of a regulation on their specific case is stated: the exercise of the right in the areas of social protection, the status of parents of carers, the personal disability, the application for material assistance, the payment for children, custody, the right to assistant, the personal working assistant in follow-up, enrolment in kindergartens, orthopedic aids, free supplementary health insurance, transport and escorting in hospital rehabilitation, pension insurance rights, the right to benefit from employment and the right to free legal assistance. It is important to specify all areas where people with disabilities have problems. The activities of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities are related to the overall problem of persons with disabilities: health, accessibility, mobility and housing, further participation in public life, education, professional rehabilitation and lifelong learning, work and employment, pension insurance, social protection, access to justice, combating discrimination, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, women with disabilities. In the discussion of the report itself, it is simply impossible to point out all the problems encountered by disabled people in all areas. We at the HNS Club decided to point out some in the hope that other clubs, and individuals, would point to other problems in the report concerning the lives of our disabled citizens. So, in our report, we in the HNS want in today's debate, that is, in our debate at HNS, we want to point out the problems of health care of persons with mental impairment, or their treatment and rehabilitation, so let me read point 314 of the report. In order to improve the mental health protection system in 2010, a national strategy for the protection of mental health for the period 2011 to 2016 was adopted. The national health development strategy for 2006 through 2011 provides for the establishment of a mental health centre. The primary level of health care aimed at improving the conditions for the inclusion of persons with mental difficulties in everyday life whose discrimination in society would be prevented. The following measurement of a particular strategy, and in accordance with the Health Protection Act, a network of public health services is adopted to establish mental health services and prevention of addiction. Services for prevention and out-of-patient treatment of addiction and protection of mental health were formally established in 2009 at the County Public Health Institutes in all Croatian counties, but in a way that added mental health protection to the previous services of prevention of addiction. However, a multidisciplinary team has not been established in many counties, activities carried out continue to focus mainly on preventing addiction and working with young people at risk. The predominant form of treatment of persons with mental impairment in the Republic of Croatia is hospital treatment, and the prevention and rehabilitation system that should be followed after hospital treatment has not been developed. The lack of outside the hospital treatment system and the lack of psychiatry in the community and rehabilitation leads to multiple hospitalisations, resulting in institutionalisation, social exclusion, isolation, Stigmation, loss of work ability, and then the frequent resolution of business ability, in full. As a result, there is a significant entanglement in the fundamental human rights of these persons and a violation of the rights of persons with disabilities which recognises the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I'm going to read on and on and on and on, so here goes a story that is extremely sensitive to me, and these are hospitals, or special psychiatric hospitals. She's a reporter, the lawyer was in three special psychiatric hospitals, the Vrapce psychiatric hospital, the Lopaca psychiatric hospital and Dr. Ivan Bobot's psychiatric hospital in Popovaca. During their visit in 2000, a recommendation was made on the content of which was listed in last year's report. In its response, the ministry did not show whether the plans were planned and what measures were planned to be taken in line with the observed shortcomings and concrete recommendations of the office. It is indicated only that the Ministry, in cooperation with other relevant institutions, is constantly working to increase social inclusion of persons with social interference. In addition to certain recommendations from the Ombudsman, she recommended that conditions should be improved for patients to stay in the hospital, provided sufficient living space per patient in such a way that 8 persons are interrupted in the same room where they cannot move, in which they have no privacy, meet hospital hygiene requirements for patients to provide adequate assistance in maintaining personal hygiene, provide nightstands next to each bed, provide room for the disposal of personal items, enable patients to dress according to personal taste. To enable all patients to stay in the fresh air daily, I do not generally believe that I am reading this, architecturally adapting the hospital to people with physical disabilities, enabling them to employ a sufficient number of professional staff, and to provide them with targeted education and additional education. To introduce patients to their rights according to the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, and the Law on the Protection of Right Patients and to enable them to consume these rights. To adopt sub-legislative acts in accordance with the law, international regulations and guidelines which would detailedly regulate the scope of the physical force in such a way as to guarantee their respect for human rights and protection against cruel and humiliating treatment. Once again, which would detail the scope of physical force in a way that guarantees respect for human rights and protection against cruel and humiliating treatment of my God. And let me point out one embarrassing fact here, and it concerns everyone. It is about the sanitary accommodation, health and rehabilitation conditions of some psychiatric hospitals in Croatia. They're inadmissible. I would like to warn you, especially on the state of the geriatric ward of the psychiatric hospital in Sparrow. That department where unfortunately they go to the end, just before the end of their lives some of our moms and dads, some of our grandparents seem absolutely inadmissible. It is a place that should look best and should be best equipped with the medical equipment of the newest generations and should simply be a clean and pleasant place. There is no such good doctor or doctor, nor is there a good enough nurse or nurse who can compensate for the embarrassing conditions in which some of our helpless fellow citizens live before their last days. I appeal to the Minister of Social Care, to the Minister of Health to do everything to make this a terrible situation in the geriatric ward of the Psychiatric Hospital in Vrapec change. And in the end, we in the CNS believe that in the field of care for people with disabilities should not be compared to anyone. We don't need other people's statistics or other people's failures. We believe that Croatia should be able to take care of persons with disabilities and according to the highest standards and the most modern knowledge at all. The Attorney General's report on persons with disabilities can be a really good starting point for the realization of the above and anything with a winged Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities “nothing about us without us”. In fact, anything related to people with disabilities should work in cooperation with them. Only people with disabilities really know what and how to arrange their valuable unique lives. Those of us who can take care of ourselves can meet our own needs, solve our own problems, we will also cope with slightly less modern civilizational flows. Those who can't do this are our priority concerns, and it's clear primarily because of them and their needs, but it's for us to feel a little bit more like people ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8917	Thank you, Your Honor. There's been a misstatement on your exhibit. It is a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Blazekovic said incorrectly that when discussing the budget of a disabled person, they have the advantage. This is an incorrect colleague Blažeković because the budget in the field and social care for 80 million kuna is smaller, and from the very remarks and actions of the Ombudsman is the largest in the field of social care. The abolition of funds for partner associations, specifically for autism 60 to 70%, does not contribute. It's nice to hear such nice words, but one piece done does far more than a hundred nice words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8919	Thank you, Your Honor. We will now stop working, rest a little and gather here at 13.30 to mark the Day of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8920	Here's our colleague and colleague, and we're continuing our report on the work of the Ombudsman for a person with disabilities for 2011. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, Nansi Tyreli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney with the associates. First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all former and current parliamentary representatives as well as employees the Day of the Croatian Parliament. In one of his replicas before the break, Col. Milinkovic said that the works show more than a thousand words and I think that exactly the number of MPs we are here now discussing the rights of persons with disabilities also shows more than anything we say. We showed it when the D.A. had her interpreter here for deaf people, and then we moved so slowly in front of the cameras, forgetting that that deaf person translator was here because of all those people with those disabilities who are so anxious to hear what's going on and what's going on and what's going on here in the Assembly is talking about them. The Croatian Labour Party Club will support this report by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and I look forward to the lawyer's activity that the office is working on individual cases. The problem, however, is that this office works only in the Zagreb area. And although I know that there are opportunities, communication channels wonder if all such opportunities are truly so communicative that they can exercise all their rights through the Zagreb office. Information to the needy is so difficult to come by and ultimately a disabled person will exercise his right only if they themselves are capable enough to achieve it. As far as the office's activities are concerned, we can see that the report is analytically depicted and no matter what kind of help people with disabilities are seeking for each of them, the service is most important in the world because it needs it. We don't have enough time to analyze the entire report, so I'm going to focus on a few of my important segments. When the HZZO Council has just adopted a new Regulation on orthopedic and other aids, which has been in effect since 1 March this year, it has been delivered to the opinion and the office that has had two days to do so. Regardless of the short deadline, however, he gave his testimony and recommendations, but, of course, by the old good practice of the Governing Council of HZZO did not accept them. I wonder who knows better than a person with disabilities what they need and why, after all, the office's opinion as such? Is it just to satisfy the form and simply nothing else? If we're already talking about how we want to help these people as a society, so let's at least listen to them and learn from them something we don't know, and it's obvious from this report that we don't know much and that we have no intention of making a move in anything after four years. What are we afraid of? What's HZZO afraid of with his behavior that maybe someone with a disability who's in a wheelchair looking for two, three, four carts of different colors so he can maybe get into town? In a new rule, Article 27, which prescribed the possibility of an extraordinary approval, also lost itself. It was precisely the application of this provision that allowed the authorisation of the necessary aids not included in the list of persons with disabilities. Every man is a world to himself. People with disabilities are a bigger and more complex world. Why, then, as a society, by writing these regulations and applying them, do we care only about giving these people less than more? They spoke of this before my predecessors that every person with disabilities should indeed be viewed as a person for themselves, a person with their needs. When we discussed the report by the Ombudsman for children, I mentioned the problem with preschool children in this report, and these problems are only being confirmed. While a child does not attend school, he is left to care for parents who need help themselves. If someone can get their hands and feet to have their kid in kindergarten, they can leave him there for two hours. No assistants, no sensibilities, just no responsibility, because it's the responsibility of all of us in society to give these kids everything because they simply have a right to it. The norms for kindergartens that should have children with special needs are murderous, few who can achieve it at all. It's like we're competing to have supernatural standards. I wonder if people who write these normatives have ever dealt with a disabled child? Did they ever talk to a parent or kindergarten teacher about it and ever visit a kindergarten in Croatia to see how, how long and within what time can all these normatives that prescribe to implement in practice get what we owe them as a society as soon as possible? If we do not meet the normatives, we make and train mobile teams who will then visit these children in their homes and help them to promote healthy and complete development because that should be the goal. As for primary school education, the office referred to all the problems that existed in 2010 and in the years before, so it is easy to conclude that we had not even one millimeter removed from the mud in which we were stuck. The basis of the Education Act results in an obligation to adopt sublegal acts which will, among other things, regulate this area more closely. This applies primarily to a rule which requires the definition of the types of difficulties on the basis of which the student is entitled to appropriate training programmes and appropriate forms of assistance. The deadline for its adoption has been one year since the law was passed, and its deadline has long passed. Currently, the current rules of 1991 are, so they are 21 years old, and we can only guess how appropriate they are and how they ensure the equal rights of all students in the education system. Is this why at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, someone will be as responsible as some recently, as we have witnessed some recent failures. It should be, of course, but the question is, will it? Special schools receive from the ministry minimally decentralised funds that are not enough to cover current expenditures, and then we get paradoxes. A special school in Labin was given charity actions by an enthusiastic van to transport its students with special needs, which, as such, rots and falls in the parking lot in front of the school just because the school has no money to pay for the technical examination, fuel and driver for the same van they got. It's just absurdities that border on stupidity, human nonsense. As regards the right to compensation for children, the office shall record complaints from parents who do not have the right to pay for their children older than 27 years of age who call for discrimination against those parents who have right to do so by 1.1.2002, based on that famous disputed article 38. The law on the allowance for children whose right it belongs to the adoption of a special regulation on the rights of persons with disabilities. The social policy of the state in this section was entirely unconsistent because the Constitutional Court stated by its decision that the multi-annual non-registration of a special regulation for persons with disabilities, and thus the multi-annual extension of the famous Article 38. The Act on Child Compensation as a temporary or transitional provision is not constitutionally acceptable since, in the transitional period until a specific regulation is passed, a group of users is granted an exceptional and temporary right to an allowance and after their child is 27 years of age. The dispute is that the state has still committed itself to today's legal provision to pass a regulation on persons with disabilities that has not been passed for ten years. Based on what I have just said, I also propose to the Government that as soon as possible the draft law on how long in Croatia can, may or should take the longest time of this transitional, more precisely temporary period. 10, 20 years, man's life span, how many. That would be very good if we were to establish by law. This counsel's report is highly recommended and the facts that point to their long-term non-execution have been filled with the truth that services to which the welfare of persons with disabilities should be the original task, do not carry out their duties. Yet the saddest knowledge that no one has ever answered, no one has even been called to account. It is even more sad that when the laws and regulations are passed, no one even remembers that the suggestions and suggestions coming from the Office of the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities should be a skeleton of such laws to which everything else will be upgraded, and not that there is absolutely no such proposal in the law anywhere. How many reports in this assembly will have to be read that listening to them, people with disabilities finally say that both those in the Assembly and all our society have become aware that 530 thousand of us who have to live and want to live, even if we are disabled, exist in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8922	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8923	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here I have, in recent years, witnessed reports and participated in discussions, and I can indeed confirm what my colleagues have said to the predecessors that such a quality and comprehensive report is rarely met and we at HDZ will, of course, accept it. But there is one thing that is still necessary to mention about this report, which brings up certain problems, but also offers solutions. This is important to underline, and for 518080 people with disabilities solutions are really necessary. It's not enough, we can get in here with all the big words, and anyway, if we get out of here with our shoulders down, like we did, and then we're off the health board, too, so here's what it's gonna be like. Of course, it is necessary to find solutions to all these issues discussed in the report, and, as is said, the work was focused on three ways: working on individual cases, promotional activities of raising the level of awareness in society and the impact on legislation. And the level of consciousness should certainly be particularly highlighted because the very definition of disability, the person with the disability, is that these are persons with physical impairment, which cause disability, but also have potentials. And in that sense, it is our job to activate and encourage these potentials. The most frequently treated, therefore, as we have heard, of 1446 subjects and the most common areas were social protection, accessibility, education, employment, pension insurance and healthcare. And the 2008 Convention on the First Persons with Disabilities says: The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states that a person with Disabilities provides an adequate standard of living and social protection when a person cannot be employed because of his disability and thus obtain the means needed for life, it is the duty of the State to ensure that those persons and their families have an adequate standard of living and a continuous improvement of living conditions. It is the country's duty to ensure that persons receive assistance so as not to live under conditions of poverty as they settle disability-related expenditure. The social care system is addressed to all persons with disabilities who cannot achieve their material security by their own work, and therefore the task of this system is to ensure adequate rights for these persons and family members to whom they are addressed by respecting their abilities, needs and weight of disability. I think it's clear enough what to do and it's just kind of symptomatic that in this area of social care and the most noticeable. And I keep in mind, as Mrs. Attorney-General mentioned, that's why the problem of depriving business skills, so I also think the custody problem has made it very clear and detailed. But we certainly have to say in this place that raising the VAT to 25% of the energy price is certainly not going to help relieve these problems. I'm sure he won't. The special area is certainly always the area of health here, which is always because people with disabilities often absolutely always have to look for health care and in this area is looking at this care for people with disabilities, but in some ways I am glad that here in these remarks health care is in the last place in some way stable, but I may avoid that qualification in this way, but I keep it going according to accessibility, but I would also say on health issues. So, some progress has been made in terms of rehabilitating people with spinal diseases in the Varazdin spas. Of course, it is also stated that the concern after the release is that it is not adequate and that in that part we need to work on, but we are obliged in this place to mention the importance of healthcare in the house which also significantly participates in it and helps in terms of improving the quality of life. Of course, there is also a question of persons with mental impairment, the same other part where, after hospital treatment as I understand it, it is done as it would require, so the care in that second part is not satisfactory. Furthermore, a special site must have been the orthopedic aid the predecessors spoke of. I think we need to mention this specifically because this rule that came into force on March 1st has caused a lot of difficulties, and in that sense there have been warnings. Thus, with regard to these and to the Association of undersighted persons, in particular the article 27 when it was possible to intervene hastily for some aids as it is unfortunately not respected. But a special place certainly also takes up and that consumer aids – diapers, catheters, etc., because it is indeed at a given moment that requires significantly larger quantities that the regulation as such does not accept and respect, and I think that there will certainly be something that will have to be done because I think it is an extremely important question on which to work. Dental health care is also a problem in particular. The problem is also an anesthesiologist and these are all areas of health care that should be further completed and done. As far as accessibility is concerned, I think it's a lot to say about it last year, but something has not been done in particular, and as the D.A. said, these laws are good, but they are not implemented as I understand it, and in that part, no significant shifts have been made. Unfortunately, here are those and at the level of perhaps weaker hearing, at the level of local self-government, etc. Any area like the predecessors that I do not now engage in an explanation of education, so from the issues that my colleague Tyrelli has explained very nicely, I would not get into it. So each area for itself is really processed and offered in some way solutions, and it is certainly up to us to try in that part and the framework of social protection to improve so that we don't get out of this place by coming down with our shoulders again because in that part we didn't do anything. Let us do so in a way that we try to make all of these shortcomings that offer quality solutions by being advocacy, so when the budget is brought forward that we can be consistent so as to make progress further in improving the quality of life. We at the HDZ Club will, of course, support this report and always advocate to improve that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8924	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're continuing the club debate. Madam Attorney-General Anka Slošnjak, do we ever finish with clubs or now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8925	Well, it's good when we're done with clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8926	We've got two more debates in the clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8927	Or you can do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8928	Okay. Here I hope my colleagues agree. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8929	Well, there's nothing I'd just be able to reach out to, but I'd like to comment on Mr. Milinkovic about the area of health care. Namely, the health care area in 2011 is recognised in front of the Office so much more than it is in the last place with regard to the number of complaints but is in the second second, even third place for the reason that during 2009 we hired one person who was recognized as a quality associate of mine and as a person who really tried to recognize that they could join the health care office in Croatia as well. In that part, we have actually started to get more complaints since 2010, because in fact somehow it turns out that when people with disabilities do not receive money compensation and when it does not concern some material assets as if there are no problems in this particular area, and in fact, the area of health care is one of the most important areas and I believe that there are far more problems that have been shown in 2011, and it will also appear in the five months we see that the problems are actually in each segment of health care as regards the various damages of people with disabilities. The orthopedic aids, we were actually involved in our initiative two years ago, or last year in the working group of people with disabilities who were presented, we actually wanted to enter a person, 2 persons, or 4 with various damages, since the convention talks about persons with physical, or sensory, mental and intellectual damage. And in that part, we wanted those people who are key and who use orthopaedic aids, meaning people with physical, sensory and mental impairment to be able to give their opinions during the making of regulations, i.e. changes and additions. However, one person is included but what we learn is that even her opinion is not respected at the level to which it should be. So here I appeal once again that when the Regulation is made, and we know that it is now again the rule of orthopaedic aids to change that it is indeed an opinion that is being respected. If a representative of a person with disabilities is in that task force, and yet it is not just one so declarative that she is inside, and in fact her opinion is so respected depending on how much it is really in the interest of who she is, who changes that rule. What I wanted to say more about health care is the problems of the person, with the person with the physical damage, which is still a great incoherence when the person happens or the injury, or some disease, or I don't know, some particular damage that has to go primarily to that primary protection, then to rehab. That there's actually one whole unconnection that doesn't exist, and in the end you don't know where that person is being treated, and when something happens, when she has some consequence at a later stage when she's already at home, then she doesn't really know where to go to her treatment. As an example, she would cite a person who has, say, the result of jumping into the water, so the person broke her spine, she was tetraplegia, she was in rehab, for example. In the Varazdin spas, she came home in a smaller environment, and in fact, that's where her monitoring of what's going on with her stops. In the meantime, she received a wound, decubitus, and after learning from that decubitus she does not have adequate treatment in her primary environment. And the question is, where is it with that person then? They say the hospital that's closest, that's what we were talking about at the time in the Osset clinical hospital center, the question was we can't take it because we potentially think it's a smut. If she has a wife we can't accept her here, can we go to Zagreb? Zagreb says no, we cannot accept it because it does not belong in Zagreb. And then she stays in her midst, happens to be treated by her doctor general practice, that she is treated by a nurse who may not have been adequately educated about such a very severe, severe injury and actually then a person does not have that expert di she can tell e here there is a center where there is a specialized urologist, here is a specialized gynecologist, a neurologist. It means for certain damages to say a person with paraplegia or tetraplegia knows that he can come and that at some later stage, when a result of such long - term damage can occur, he may come to report for his examination or later treatment. For this reason, I say it is necessary to set up a centre where we have indeed given a great engagement and is currently working on a commission with the ministry to establish a spin centre for such persons. And I believe that you too will recognize the importance of this center and support such an initiative. As far as people with mental impairment are concerned, I think there's a lot of talk here, but there's always not enough to talk about it, because that's one population that's still not recognized in our regulations as a population, a group of people with disabilities who are people with disabilities. The convention made it very clear that persons with mental impairment, or mental disorders, and psychosocial disorders fall into people with disabilities. Our system still doesn't recognize it. We are not on a unique list of functional abilities or on a unique list of bodily damage. Here's what I'm talking about right now. I'm talking about a list of bodily damages. I don't have anyone listed or intellectual damage. Which automatically prevents their system, i.e. later rights, privileges are thus abolished because they are unrecognizable. Hence, it tells all of us to make sure that those who truly are included in those systems and regulations that concern them. Here's the short one for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8930	Thank you. We continue the debate on behalf of HDSSB representative Zoran Vinkovic's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8931	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The HDSSB club will support this report. But here we also want to make a certain contribution in this debate in order to make a significant improvement in the situation of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia and normally to expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to step in as well. It is a long and thorny path in which people with disabilities have gone through the civilizational development of relationships from total depravity and depravity, through attitudes of ignoring, tolerance, caritative charity, the speciality of integration to full social respect. Such persons have been placed on the verge of all events where they were most often in a subordinate political, legal, social and economic position, and only then in 200 years have something been happening in human relations with people with disabilities, and about the sense of real and universal civilised equality. And that happened in the last 3 decades and in this decade of the 21st century, or 3 last decades of the 20th century. And it is only the time after World War II that not only in Croatia but in Europe and the world brings significant changes in social relations to people with disabilities. Under the influence of inherited dualism during the 1950s, a number of specialized schools, institutions, workshops, funds of special working methods and the like are being opened. In the mid-60s, the policies of diversity, special regulations, social measures and forms of help for disabled people also experience the first sharp criticism. In the early 1970s, an idea of integration that rejects the concept of disability as an individual's absolute and special state, and people with disabilities are respected as equal social beings in education, employment, work, cultural activities, sports, political activity and the like. Integration policy is adopted in developed countries of the world, especially in European countries, and the changes in relations contribute significantly to the acts of the UN Assembly and European documents brought by both the Council of Europe or the European Union. It is not important to point out that Croatia is the signator of all the most important international documents on the rights of persons with disabilities whose rights are regulated through almost 300 different regulations, but many problems remain when they need to be translated into everyday life. So if we were to look at the problem of disabled persons or disabled persons only through strong laws, through extensive paperwork as a guarantee of their rights, then we could conclude that the life of a disabled person or a disabled person is ideal. But unfortunately, there's always that, but... In everyday life, Croatian everyday life is not so. Invalids in Croatia are still marginalised, excluded in most cases from the community and most importantly do not have adequate material and other support for independent life. We can take for example a person who is in a disability pension who has gone from 37 years of employment to receiving from 1200 to 1700 kuna of such a pension today. I don't know if there's anyone in this assembly who thinks that's enough for a man's life. An even more dramatic situation is with social welfare rights where people with disabilities are making miserable cash compensations of unworthy and life and civilization gains for 21st century. How many disabled persons, persons with disabilities live in social care institutions separated from society and community, so someone here should tell us what is the development of the Community support service to finally stop the practice of accommodation in institutions. Because we can all agree that the best therapy is life in the family, not in one of the homes for the disabled or in another institution. In principle, the state remains deaf and blind to the needs of people with disabilities, and there is no support because politics is in principle implemented by people who are not disabled and are exploiting the situation to do something for themselves. The population of people with disabilities around the world is huge, and in Croatia there is a large population of people with disabilities, almost 11% to whom we do not give much importance, and persons with disabilities are socially on the lowest level in the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, people with disabilities live from 1000 to 1700 kuna to no more than 2 and a half thousand kuna pensions or social benefits. The most common problems facing disabled people are that they do not yet have access to all public institutions. As mayor, they can say they do not have access to all public institutions in the area of Djakova, but the city of Djakovo is one of the first to go towards solving Croatia's access without the help of the state or government of the Republic of Croatia to solve these problems. And here I am, as mayor, extremely proud to be the first mayor in Croatia who, unfortunately, has now given his deceased fellow citizen Darka Benke his dog guide and food for his dog guide who was the first dog guide in Slavonia. His name was Lisa. The other is or more of a problem is it is not only that I can't access all public institutions, but that I can't adequately educate myself, and then get a job, which is still seen as a second-class person. The only model, but also the solution to the problem of disabled persons, is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the local, regional community, ceases to view them as a social problem. Because it's about people who can be a useful part of this society. In order for all together to be able to look at the problems of persons with disabilities inevitably in solving these problems in any case other than will, except political will, in addition to certain solutions, other measures that are also linked to, which are inexplicably linked to finance are needed in any case. It is precisely this problem that requires fiscal decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia in order for disabled people to become a useful and respected part of Croatian society. A few weeks ago, an international meeting was held in Vukovar on the employment of people with disabilities, and the meeting presented data that in Croatia today there are more than 530 thousand people with all kinds of disabilities, of which about 250,000 are those who have become disabled and due to inadequate working conditions. It has been said that many of them, although still able to work practically and drive them into disability pensions because they did not have the possibility of other more adequate employment and in these pensions I would not say pension but charity of 1200 kuna. On the other hand, the entry into the European Union will require Croatia to take further care of the employment of persons with disabilities. And the unemployment rate of people with disabilities and employment rates will have to rise enormously. This literally means that 75% of people with disabilities who are able to work and want to work will have to get jobs. My question first and foremost for the government, for those who exercise authority, who support the government, are we aware of these provisions and how we are going to implement them? I'll be back and here for my last term at the Croatian Parliament. I was one of those who then asked the parliamentary question to the then prime minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. But here, since this time almost nothing has changed. It is a declaration of the position of the blind in the Republic of Croatia, adopted by the Croatian Association of Blinds, that I do not read it. It was adopted on 4 April 2009. And I didn't notice that in the 2012 budget, although at that time this left party was extremely loud and approved even that one of mine I would say to the then prime minister a little more vivid way but I didn't notice ladies and gentlemen representatives of the SDP that in the 2012 budget you had in mind what I then asked as a representative of the then prime minister and talked about the shame of this blindness allowance that this allowance in France was 715 euros, in Italy 670 euros, in Austria 633, in Germany 500 euros, in 330, in Slovenia 258, so these are those countries that have entered the EU before us, and these countries that are just fighting or are candidates in BiH are 202 euros, Serbia, regardless of being elected as the president of the Chetnik Duke, there is a fee or an allowance for blindness of 175 euros, in Albania 100. Do you know what a blindness allowance is in the Republic of Croatia? Shameful 50 euros. And in the 2012 budget, nothing has changed. So here we are celebrating the Day of the Croatian Parliament, the former Statehood Day, so here I want to congratulate people with the disability of that former Statehood Day or the Day of the Croatian Parliament but also to wonder what the state has become of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8932	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSu representative Višnja Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8933	Thank you very much. The esteemed attorney, the esteemed vice president, the esteemed co-workers and colleagues. The 2011 Ombudsman's 2011 report can be assessed as a quality and highly focused on the basic purpose of the office's activities, which is to represent and monitor the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, there are about 518 thousand people living in the Republic of Croatia with disabilities who are still living because of often uncompliant legal regulations that regulate different systems do not exercise their rights in a uniform manner. One problem is the fact that the rights of persons with disabilities are governed by different regulations whose provisions are often not mutually harmonised. It is therefore the task of the competent ministries and other institutions to work together with the representatives of persons with disabilities and with the Advocate's Office as quickly as possible to find the best-quality solutions that would allow faster and more effective implementation of the legislation. As a signator of the UN Convention, the rights of persons with disabilities have been obliged to implement its provisions and to comply with its principles, which implies a serious and above all responsible work in the coming period. In line with modern trends in policy-taking against the situation of children with disabilities in the period and persons with disabilities, our country should conduct an exclusive model that implies an assessment of the support system that society must ensure that people with disabilities have equal opportunities in society. The report shows that almost all areas of the life of people with disabilities still face a number of problems and obstacles. As in previous years, the report clearly states that a number of cases relate to social care issues. On this occasion, I would like to stress the very high involvement of the Advocate's Office in the process of adopting the Social Care Act, which took effect in July 2011. The office was then clearly focused on achieving the rights of children with disabilities and persons with disabilities, and all in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Other Regulations in Croatian Laws such as the National Strategy for Equalisation of Equality for Persons with Disabilities by 2015. In March 2012, a new Social Care Act was adopted, which will certainly speed up and enable quality reforms and social care systems to be implemented. This will ensure rights from the earliest age of children with developmental difficulties to proper and timely care for proper and rehabilitation. In doing so, it is necessary to speed up the process of deinstitutionalisation, which would allow for better quality early intervention, prevention, independent life and employment as an improvement in the quality of life in the local community. It is also necessary to end the process of setting standards and normative social care institutes and setting guidelines for the reorganisation of their work aimed at providing support in the local community. The situation of children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia has recently improved although not in all environments equally. Compared to some regions, the country still sees a huge disproportionateity in the provision of rights. Local communities should do much more when it comes to accessibility of this mobility. The right to education is a prerequisite for the full and healthy development of every child and child with developmental difficulties. In practice, depending on the region, we find a large number of problems that make quality education impossible. The reasons are found in the lack of professional staff of individual institutions at all levels and the lack of education of experts. We don't think we should be saving on the most vulnerable groups in society. Projects and activities of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties must not be interrupted they must continue. We want to point out the importance of achieving the right of projects intended for disabled persons and to stress that the power of each society is reflected in its humanity. The report confirms the indemnity of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities in the continued monitoring of legal regulations governing children's rights with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities. People with disabilities in this country have every right to participate in all segments of the life of the local community, society in general and only then can we talk about a society of equal opportunities. The club of HSU representatives will support this report and consider it very high-quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8934	Thank you. Mrs. Slonjšak's attorney called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8935	Thank you. Well, I'd just go back to the previous presentation of the HDSSB gentleman but he's gone but here's hoping someone can pass it on to him. In fact, the question of the addendum for blindness is a question which has been going on for many years and, in fact, the Social Care Act provides for one provision, which says that it will be adopted within three years, an inclusive supplement, an Inclusive Supplement Act. But what we see as a big problem is that it's been a year and we actually know that on this issue, it's questionable how much it's done and how much it's done. We know that now the initiative for a task force working on a single list of functional abilities, i.e. the unique body of art and everything that is connected in that section, is being adopted more effectively and clearly, which is that we finally know who persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are because and what is the problem is, what continues to be people of the system to the system, and that is that "walking" from the system to the system that what we and the disabled have in their complaints about us, and that is that they do not know what their rights are. And most often their questions go to type I'm a person with 80% body damage, which are my rights. I mean, I can't even answer people that way, but I really need to ask for full information. And what's complete information, that's what they have in all those files from everyone's system to get and to keep them informed and it's actually often their problem. Because when they leave, for example. in the social care centre and when they ask for information, they only get partial information about the system, and other systems are not informed again. And it is precisely the lack of this coordinated connection between the system that people with disabilities, or those closest to them, do not wander from system to system. It is easy in cities, however, where small areas are and where people really do not have transportation or support that could be their escort or someone like that that could help them, there are really big problems. As far as the issue of this inclusive supplement is concerned, it is precisely the supplement that should compensate for all the costs caused by disability, and in this regard it is a problem not only for persons with visual impairment but for the problem of persons with all the damage, depending on their consequences after certain damage occurs to them, better say after their disability occurs. Because according to the concept of the convention, it is very clear that the society created by disability is, for as long as we allow a person to have an accessible environment despite their damage in their environment, if it is able to reach their educational institution, if it is able to get to their workplace, if it is reasonable to adapt it means that it can work despite its damage, that adjustment does not mean that everyone will need the highest level of help. Someone may need just some custom table, another customized computer, and someone may need that completeness with an assistant, etc. So it is for all of us to have an impact on the fact that we do not create disability, that is, creating obstacles. As far as accessibility is concerned, many of you believe that you know, some of you have been here and at some other functions, in the area of accessibility there have been funds, there has been a project "Accessory Croatia". The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has provided a larger number of years for the project which could use units of local and regional self-government and administration in a way that, in cooperation with associations, they recognise, create good and quality projects, show them and apply them to the competition. But we do know, and here is the former Prime Minister, the minister then, who we all know has not been used. This means that people have actually left a lot of resources in the state budget without doing what is most needed, and that is the basic prerequisite for people with disabilities to be able to exercise some of their rights in the first place. I know that the stage and situation of economic difficulties is at present, but as long as a person with disabilities cannot enter a health care facility, as long as it cannot be educated in an educational institution, the nearest one, home, as long as we have to move people out of our homes to go to school in Zagreb, to some centres for education and education, etc., until we can never talk about any... Not about any civilized society. [[You don't understand.]] We're still very low in that part. As far as the service provider is concerned, since the gentleman has opened a series of questions, there is, as I said, a national deinstitutionalisation plan, a home transformation plan, a master plan. However, what we have, we have done this good legislative framework, but we have not adapted or enabled units of local and regional self-government preparation, education, and we have not allowed the service provider in extra-institutional forms. What does that mean? We can tell the person today we're moving you out of the facility, for example. center Stančić, but where are we going with this person if there are no services in its environment that can provide support that it can live in its environment. As an example, we have recently received data although it is not the subject of the 2011 report, but which clearly says that we have only four registered service providers in the local environments and three are in the city of Zagreb, and one Subićecac, Center for Education and Education in Sibenik. As we expect then that we will do by 2016, 2012 is practically, I already see it at the end, given the situation as it is, in what way we will move these people out of the facility if we have not prepared the units or local environments at all. Where we're going with these people, these people might come into their midst and be, see no favors and come back. Or at the very least, we won't be moving them at all, but there will still be accommodation in institutions that we don't really want. It is also evident that 67% of all users on care outside their own family are still in permanent and weekly accommodation. These are data now from a recent joint memo, which means it's a very big deal for us if we really want to live in this 2016 as the National Deinstitutionalisation Plan predicted. And what is worrying, what Mr. Milinkovic mentioned in one part, we left civil society organisations to be service providers. We made it that the state had offered a partnership and partners were many alliances and associations of people with disabilities who really made a big turn in that part and allowed users in the local environments to help them stay in their midst, what I'm talking about. And now there's been a situation where we cut funds and actually dispute, deny funds for associations that are service providers, and at the same time the state didn't ensure the possibility of registered service providers. Where we're going with these people, where we're going with people with disabilities, if they're going to stay in the institution then, or if we're going to end the associations all, shut them down. I don't know how you see the way. I think the funds currently as they are thank God here it turns out that eventually the funds will be provided at least for those three-year-old programs that, so it's announced, I believe and I hope that I'm a good transferr, that they will be, which have the meaning of services to end-users, because we don't want a single association to happen for example. The autism that has provided housing support has drawn 10 users from the institution and now if the programme is denied by 60% it will have to return those people with autism to institutions. I don't know how it was imagined. So it is up to all of us to consider when we come to this law on associations that will soon come to believe in these decisions with you, and also the Finance Act as well as how to quality-recognizable those associations that work for the general public benefit so that truly disabled people are placed in the way they deserve, which is according to those abilities and how they have the right to live with who and where. Here, this is short.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8936	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Vice-President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Attorney, I am pleased and pleased to welcome you to the Croatian Assembly, and here I am thinking a little bit about the times behind us, it has really been a special honor and pleasure to offer you personally as a member of the Government at some time for the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. I think it was a great decision, a real decision. I remember those moments when we were in the government discussing the offered, or people who reported to do the job that, among some of my colleagues, there was actually a question about whether Mrs. Slonjšak could do it in view of the disability that follows her here through life, could she do it? And I think exactly, Madam Attorney, that by your work at the head of this office, you've shown that often we actually fight terrible obstacles that aren't in real obstacles to life but in prejudices, in what's in our heads. And I think a lot of these prejudices come simply from the ignorance of the fact of the real life of people with disabilities. If I have learned something over the years by working and by myself in political life to help people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia get better quality every day, then I have learned that disabled people, disabled people, are not people with special needs, and I think that we often make a lot of mistakes in the qualifications of people with disabilities that we call people with special needs. Because every person with disabilities has absolutely the same support as every other person who doesn't follow the disability. So, and the need for education and the need to work and the need to engage in political life, those who have it and the need to go to the theatre, to the cinema. So all these needs are the same only possibilities for these needs to be realized are different. And that's where I see the role of the state. It is very difficult to violate prejudice, especially to break prejudices that are actually real obstacles. Of course, on this occasion I want to remind myself once again of the fact that I am also personally proud to be able to sign this document on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, so that Croatia is the third country in the world to sign, I did so in New York, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It's actually, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest human rights document ever passed in this century. The document that binds us all, and which Croatia has very quickly ratified, seems to me to be the fourth country in the world to ratify it, and in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of Ladies and Gentlemen everything, we have committed ourselves to all of this, and all of this should be translated not only into laws, but should be preceded into real practice daily. Of course, this Convention is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but certainly also on the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. A law that is often, unfortunately, a dead letter on paper. What your report as well as Mrs. Attorney's shows is that we need to make more of an effort to involve people with disabilities in everyday life. So, first of all, able as I already said schooling, but also employment. That's why I support all the programmes that have been designed through the Ministry of Economy, and I am talking about, of course, the mandate of my government, the specific programmes for the employment of persons with disabilities. There is a lot of space that we have not used enough, but also in what we call and what you mentioned is an affordable Croatia project. The project was carried out through the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and as Mrs. Slonjšak well pointed out, an absurdity occurred that we had provided funds that we could not spend to the end. Why? Because, literally, in one period, I have to say here, we dragged the mayors, mayors and mayors by hand to deliver quality programmes to the ministry for the realization of that programme, which we called accessible Croatia which was very simple. So to allow people with disabilities to go into the post office on their own, to the hospital, to the home of health, to the infirmary, to enter the theater on their own, to the cinema, etc. Visiting Croatia when the project was realized we found something amazing, that even here in Krapina because it marked the International Day of Persons with Disabilities that even a shop in the city center that was supposed to serve the disabled for the purchase of necessary supplies had such high stairs that they absolutely did not get over or were hard to master and healthy persons. And it was a real example of how to actually overcome obstacles doesn't need money, to overcome obstacles takes brains, but it also needs hearts. What I think we've done well in the past few years is founding a personal assistant institute for the most disabled. That project was going great. As the Advocate General pointed out, it is precisely due to good cooperation, i.e. it has been achieved thanks to good cooperation with the associations and I believe that we will soon have the law, but also that we will have an item in the Republic budget that will enable those who have the right to a personal assistant to use it without any concern about what they will really be using tomorrow, i.e. to use it. Namely, it seems completely to me to be a new institute in the Republic of Croatia, so a personal assistant should be, or should be, the person who allows the most difficult person to live his life. So not the life he's giving him, or the life he's directed at, a family that often does with the best intentions whenever he makes mistakes. So, trying to protect, especially young people, people with disabilities often do family and unconsciously make mistakes, directing that now is not the time to go to the hairdresser or it is not the time to go to the movies, but rather something else. A personal assistant should allow disabled persons to live on their own. I would also like to point out here a particular problem of violence against people with disabilities, which is what Madam Attorney-General would like to read a little bit more in the following reports. So, in particular, women with disabilities are knownly thrown out by domestic violence, which often remains as unfortunately and any other violence that occurs in the family behind closed doors. And I would also like more time and space to be devoted to people with disabilities athletes. I would like to warn here of an unacceptable statement recently made by Mr. Skansi, said Mr. Skansi, the first associate of Minister Jovanovic, where he is probably out of ignorance, which surprises me because he is a top athlete, or that he was. He said that money to the Olympics, so the Olympic medal winners in the Olympics, at the couples of the Olympics, cannot get the same support of the state as can be obtained by healthy medal winners, so athletes who are not disabled. To move these things forward, to always take a step forward is the role of the media. So I hope that, from this debate today, at least 30 seconds will be occupied by the central TV shows of Croatian television, different televisions, and that it will not be more important who has said anything to anyone in the bickering between political parties, or even within a party, but that space will take hold of this debate which is related to the report of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much, and I want you to keep an eye on the position of persons with disabilities who deserve all our respect, but also the same life as any other person has, given the values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which prohibits discrimination on any basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8938	Thank you. At your presentation, we have one replica, representative Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8939	Dear colleague Kosor said she hoped the media would respond adequately and would devote at least 30 seconds to this debate today. If it's going to be 30 seconds in the log, then it's going to react the way it reacts, inadequately. Croatian television should pay attention to this problem daily, Croatian television should deal with serious debates on this very important segment of life. So the message that 30 seconds is something, is the message that we don't really need anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8940	Thank you. We have an answer on your line, Vice President Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mention any television, so I didn't mention Croatian television. I said general television, television house in the Republic of Croatia. Of course I agree with you that Croatian Television, or Croatian Television as a public television owned by the Republic of Croatia, should devote much more time to today's debate, but I spoke because I have experience, probably like you. That such topics and discussions in the Croatian Parliament and generally in Croatian society are devoted to minimal or no time in our electronic media, but also generally in the printed media. We'll see if there's a single letter in the logs tomorrow, I'm sure you won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8942	Thank you. We move on to the debate, representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates. Well here is a very high-quality content report, and unfortunately it is very much a problem that people with disabilities have and what I stress, as well as my predecessors, have as much not only seen problems, recording problems but also recommendations, or suggestions to improve them. I will look back on only one area, which is the area of healthcare and dental protection, then the health care of people with mental impairment and the problems of people with autism. Why autism? That's why I'm in contact with mothers who have children with autism. And with parents who have adults, their children with autism. When we talk about the lack of adequate dental care for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, I must stress what I killed last year, which is that we are constantly talking here about the consequences rather than the cause. And the consequences are as follows: the dental procedure must be waited for months, somewhere and years. Similarly, children, or persons with disabilities, are not often able to cooperate with dental doctors, and this is precisely why it is necessary to perform general anesthesia surgery. Of course, such requirements require special conditions of space, equipment, medical team, etc. In certain regions, we have no possibility of providing such dental protection. Here in 2010, the ministry replied that it was working to find an adequate solution to this problem, so it repeated itself, it stopped. Here it is also stated in the end that it should actually be the hospital, or surgical hall for the purpose of persuasion of this specific dental protection and should be equipped to ensure the provision of this medical service. Why do I say that? Just because I repeat, we're talking about the consequences here, not the cause. And the reason is this, the cause of the abolished prevention, or abolished, is a very good system that took care of dental care, oral health of children, and also especially children with developmental difficulties or the problem of people with disabilities. I must stress that care for such patients was competent pedodonts, however, with the prevention of course it was abolished. That's why I want to point out that we should think about this as a real cause, not what we're talking about the consequences, and we're going to have a very difficult time solving these consequences, so we always have the damaged people you're saying here. The second is the protection of mental health. It is formally conducted in primary, secondary, tertiary activity. Today we had a proposal for a decision to declare the day of the right of persons with mental disorders with the strategy that we have. We all have legal frameworks. We're working on the awareness of it, and it's a good step, because we're working on the awareness of it. However, I must stress that we do not implement the right guidelines given by the World Health Organization to help such persons. We don't have psychiatry in the community, we don't have after the hospitalization or rehab, not to talk about inclusion or inclusion. I'm not gonna mention the inclusion today. I think there are much bigger problems here than they say, because it's very difficult for a child to put in the class according to this program that we have regardless of the child assistant in the class or not. I think it's one broader area we'll talk about when it's about education. Now I'm actually going to look back on one category of people whose rights are basically not respected, and these are people with autism. The current structure of the Center for Autism when you look at a large part of it is not in line with the rules of the education system for three reasons. An elementary school cannot have a dormitories, or a stationary. You know that at the Center for Autism there is a stationary for, of course, the accommodation of adults. Then elementary school cannot conduct health and social protection, and primary school cannot attend children for the longest, longer than 21 years of life. We're wondering who the autism belongs to? Is it health care, is it social care, is it education? These are all three areas that need to be represented, i.e. all three areas where they need to be given their rights to people with autism. However, when we look at the perception of autism, we have to say that somehow it has remained on the side, that is, unresolved. It is often thought that the problem of autism, i.e. that autisms are expensive precisely because of the standards that are prescribed for autism, because, if it is already about education, then there are small groups for working with children, for example, that are more expensive than some other solutions. However, it is also very important for autism to be involved in early diagnostics and early intervention. Thus, a greater number of people will be able to actually make their functionality possible, that is, that is, they will not be in a position to be dependent as adults, totally dependent on society. By mentioning my city and according to the assessment of the Department of Autistic Spectrum and Communication Difficulties of the Association “Together to Health” which counts 30 children, i.e. parents and children and children, while in the county we have fifty such children. In fact, there are a lot of projects that are related to autism in this area. We're working to increase our awareness of autism. Otherwise, the figures on children living with autism and related disorders are only approximate, because just official statistics don't exist correct me if it's different. I don't think there is and there's little to be said about it because it's precisely the fear of not accepting in society because it's the perception that there's actually no real diagnosis yet, right for autism because it's a very, very broad spectrum. Children are very often diagnosed with autistic spectral paper. Doubts of autism for other speech development, hearing difficulties and the like. They're involved in the system. However, I wonder if they are offered enough? They go to kindergartens, schools, they go to logos, defecologists, psychologists, psychiatrists. These are all the figures actually the waist that exists in the system. Also in kindergartens and schools, however, there is no real inclusion because it cannot be implemented in such a system. I think it takes a lot of work to change the education system so that the inclusion can be achieved, i.e. that the purpose could be achieved for what it is. However, I also stress that there is a lack of expertise in both kindergartens and schools, etc. Children with these difficulties are necessarily children with these difficulties precisely because they have, most of them have a problem developing social skills in which they are behind actually staying with their peers. So these very professions of logos, psychologists, educators need to work more with these children so that they can be included in society in general and not only in the education system but also in society in general. In schools in recent years, there has been a practice to assign a child with developmental difficulties an assistant in teaching. However, here we are in kindergarten this year in Dubrovnik we are in kindergarten as local self-government. We gave the possibility that there was actually an assistant for children and in kindergarten. According to their parents, they often manage to know and engage in private logos, defecologists while, for example, due to the lack of some other working therapy, they must go to other areas. I see my time is running out fast, and then I'd skip one piece. Here I think there's a lot of problems in this whole system. However, through will, coordination of institutions, co-ordination of state and local self-government, i.e. with the great involvement of local self-government, I think we can do a lot, and believe sometimes very little help means a lot to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8944	Thank you. We have a replica on your display, Agent Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8945	I agree with my colleagues that there is a need for coordination between local self-government and state, but local self-government must understand that these very mini tax reforms have lost the possibility of coordination at all, since most of the budget of local self-government units only believe, except the city of Zagreb has experienced a fall in income. I will not enter the economy now, in everything, but simply because there is no increase in the budget from this mini tax reform or income tax. And it is not only the will of the local self-government units but also the financial resources needed, and believe me, I know very well that in Djakov we also have a special needs association with the institution and that we also have the work of the institution but also coordinated with the government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries. However, I say that this will would prove to be in the practical part of it, first of all, necessary to have financial resources from the employment of persons with disabilities, from access to public institutions from various aids to the creation of conditions for those persons to be an actual integral part of life and local self-government and thus also to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8946	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic is all about the money, and I think he really needs the money. However, we are now in the economic situation as we are and cannot expect all of us to have enough in the budget, that we will meet all of these needs that both persons with special needs and persons with disabilities. But I stick to the fact that by introducing the structure into the system, you can do it with more or less, we saw it today on a few occasions. Therefore, as regards associations that we can help as a local community, we can help with the space of any other help. Sometimes it takes moral support to help people like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8948	Thank you. Before we go any further, Mrs. Slonjšak's attorney asked for the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8949	Thank you. Here I would just go back a little bit to autism or to the problem of people with autism. So what we've been saying for three years since there was an injury one summer, and when it was being withdrawn in the media, the problem is that the negligible health component of these people's treatment, or when something happens both diagnostics and treatments, because actually care is the problem. Furthermore, autism places high demands on the family itself, and so far we have not developed systems of support to families, and this particular support should be an integral part of the rehabilitation of people with autism from the earliest age. What we also saw as a problem that when last year the Social Care Act was passed by a certain group of people I said at the beginning the system did not even recognize as some complex damage like autism, such as deaf-blind persons etc. So we have a situation that, in fact, that I am the system, or the Social Care Act itself, it has now changed, they have again stressed that it will change by the end of the year, and I believe that these certain groups will be recognized and that they too will have the rights that are necessary. For example, a parent who has a child with autism, or an adult, does not have the possibility of parenting status because the criterion is completely different from other people with other damages. Thus, in the system itself, legal or sublegal acts should be regulated in general by the question of certain groups of damages. We also believe that only at the government level, given that we in the report really explained on 10 exhaust pages from the history of autism, the centre how it was ever done before, how today, how tomorrow and indeed when a team of prominent experts in the government in the field of medical, social and all those other systems that are multidisciplinary finally set out guidelines to know that one person with autism cannot be placed in an educational institution that is above the age of 21 and where it cannot be provided with such a form of support that it needs, and especially when there is no supervision, I think I don't know how long we'll just talk. I mean, this is a question of where to go, because if Parliament and the highest authority can't make any decisions that will be very clear and unequivocal then how are we going to protect a large group of people who may be children today, they'll be adults tomorrow or they're adults today and they don't have the nearest ones who will take care of them. I would only say about disabled athletes, no more Mrs. Kosor, namely the question of disabled athletes is a growing and larger issue for reasons that recently the issue of proposing in the media was the adoption of a regulation on the evaluation of excellence. Whether the medals of the Paralympic are more valuable than the Olympic, or whether Olympic, are more valuable than the Paralympic. We made it very clear in that part. These are all discriminatory provisions and, in fact, if the International Olympic Committee has recognised the International Paralympic Committee at the same level if we know what the role of athletes with disabilities is and if that is how equal opportunities are, then I don't know why someone would be against it or abolish certain rights that really need to be on the same basis. Now we have a situation to change the Sports Act. He will be at the debate by the end of this week, again comes the situation that in the Law on Sports in October of last year you confirmed that persons who are athletes mean deaf athletes are involved in the law or to receive permanent cash compensation, now this new draft of the Sport Act foresees the exclusion of deaf athletes. We're talking about the Olympics. So I don't know how to give more to the knowledge, and we're talking about the non-discrimination convention all the time, and every athlete is giving his part, whether he's disabled or not. The Olympics, the Paralympics, the Deaf Olympics really must be equal criteria for all. The disability is the one that needs support that makes it difficult for these athletes to deal with sports and which gives them the opportunity to prove themselves and that indeed those who have entered that group and who are giving them the greatest of all for the reputation of this country and for everything that can contribute to the development of sports in Croatia, I think they should all be given equal support. And so again I appeal we have also made recommendations to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and to all those other institutions that can help in that part, but again I say that simply some groups simply exclude themselves or throw out from certain regulations. So please also pay attention in this section to making the right decisions that are equalizing all possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8950	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney for Persons with Disabilities. I'll call you later today. First I spoke or spoke on behalf of the club, and here is now individually because I think this topic is for all people who are not disabled, that this is a subject of a couple of excellents for all of us who are not persons with disabilities. In fact, only people with disabilities experience it every day, and we are more or less observers. I've been reading the report for a long time, and it's really extensive, it's 200 pages, and I was getting ready first for a debate on behalf of the club, and then last night until late on my personal behalf, and I wrote nice pages, nice words, and I really can't talk about it at all right now. Namely, I think it's up to us and here I'd just like to appeal to colleagues and colleagues from HSU, from IDS, SDP, us from the HNS who are the ruling coalition, it's up to us, we're responsible. It is up to us to organize a person’s life with disabilities in the next period, and it is up to us to be successful or not. And it's about very specific things, it's about whether a person can open the door himself, if a person sees, if a person hears, it's about the very specific problems of our fellow citizens. And so I appeal to you and to us, to all of us, not to let ourselves continue to blush after this term and to do together whatever we can to allow people with disabilities to live a light, pleasant, happy and happy life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8952	I thank the following for the debate, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney with your co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I'd like to start my presentation first of all with importance, what I think is important, therefore, is the institution of attorney for persons with disabilities. I think that's good, so it's good that this institution is particularly isolated, and that's where we, on our part of the legislator, show some kind of concern for these people because we've allowed them to have a special, separate lawyer who specializes in them, for their needs and for their problems. How we could hear through the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, so the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, are three main categories of problems facing people with disabilities. These are problems related to fields of social care, health care, education and education. I would stay the longest in this particular education and education, and I would only be able to touch social care while I think that my colleagues and colleagues, especially those medical professions, have already touched enough health care issues. In social care, I mean, first of all, the inaccessibility of objects to people with disabilities. We're talking about public buildings, of course, but not just buildings that are public. So we're not just talking about courts, schools, colleges, even though I have to notice that one good trend feels exactly in training public buildings to accept disabled persons, or accessibility of people with disabilities. I can tell you that I can testify to my... The Faculty of Philosophy in Osijek, therefore, has a slightly strange configuration since it has been upgraded over time to adapt to the needs of the university, but several years ago a ramp was built to access persons with reduced mobility, i.e. with disability and lift, so the elevator used exclusively by persons with disabilities. [[You don't understand.]] In this way we made it possible for the students of that institution, so I only state this as an example, so that they move freely in all parts of the university building. However, public buildings are not as much a problem as private ones, or if we are talking about residential buildings first. Because that's what the D.A. and her associates warned us about, so it happens that entrepreneurs build a building with a ramp, then simply unmount that ramp, move and place it on some other object, and the ramp stands just as long as it takes to pass the inspection or get a useful permit. This is unacceptable behavior because in this way we actually discriminate against people with disabilities who may already have lived in that building or bought an apartment or something, and they had guarantees according to the spatial plan, or the building plan was intended to have a ramp. So it is up to us, as legislator, to pay special attention to inspections and to give us useful permits that would pay particular attention to this particular problem. As for education and education, there are, above all, problems involving children with developmental difficulties in the regular teaching system. Unfortunately, support for such students is left exclusively to local self-government units. This country, in my opinion, may need to be more actively involved, of course, in accordance with its capabilities. And what I think the state can most participate in is educating teachers, because teachers and teachers are not trained enough to work with such children. Here's what I'm saying from my own experience, since I've also worked as a teacher and teacher. So the theoretical skills that are acquired during schooling at the university simply doesn't exist... So you should certainly consider curricula for teaching studies and a special emphasis on working with children with developmental difficulties. [[You don't understand.]] Also, the primary school has traditionally already had I would say a more liberal and open approach to including these children in school, but the problem is in secondary school. In high school which has no such tradition, but there is I would dare say perhaps a different philosophy, a different view of children's problems with special needs, or with developmental difficulties. Here's where one of our attorneys brought us a particular case, and I'd like to bring it out now without nameing the persons and actors involved in it, but just to illustrate the problem. So it's about a little girl who went to elementary school, a regular program of course that was adapted to her options. Afterwards, she wanted to enroll, of course, in high school and institutions that should be consulted, so, above all, professional orientation, they did the job and proposed to her the school she should attend to according to her options. That girl wanted to go to school, and the school wouldn't accept it because that school was famous as elite. What does an elite school mean? Is it an elite school that rejects students? I wouldn't say that. However, there was resistance from the school as an institution to enroll that girl and give her the opportunity to attend regular classes with other students, of course in accordance with her abilities. I am pleased to note and to say that to react the Ombudsman for people with disabilities that pressure from both your institution and from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports that some shifts have been achieved, that this girl has enrolled and that she is attending. What I would also like to say is that, therefore, in the report itself, we have seen that the Ombudsman, after each chapter or several passages, also makes certain recommendations. One of my questions on the committees was addressed to the Advocate General with the question of whether these recommendations were respected, or how much of these recommendations had an effect on the legislator, at least how much they had in the last year to which the report applied. And I'm very glad to see, or hear from the D.A. that these recommendations are mostly respected. So most of them are respected. I think that's the right direction because, as I said when we discussed and the Ombudsman, it's the institutions, so it's the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, the counselor for children, the advocate for gender equality, the institutions that are daily in contact with people with whom they are dealing, or those they should represent, and as such know best what is happening in practice. Therefore, it is you who should draw the legislator's attention to how the law is either misread or not implemented or which eventually legal solutions should be improved. For all this, I would also express my personal support to the attorney general, her associates, and the work that they do. And I will personally support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8954	Thank you. On your show we have a replica, representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8955	Thank you very much. So you mentioned to my colleague Aydukovic the artificial ramps that are related to accessibility, i.e. artificial ramps during the construction that only form is actually satisfied. Well, here's what we discussed on the board, so I'd like to point out here that we've been looking for in fact that the Attorney's Office is also working on the search for enhanced inspector's report, the surveillance of pardons, and that we've also suggested that the office directs the recommendation to the Chamber of Architects, and also other expert associations of builders, in the sense of actually preventing these frauds that we've witnessed very often for the places for the disabled and for the ramps that you've listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8956	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Agent Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8957	Well, I only thank my fellow MPs for saying that, but what I have to correct is my last name, Hajdukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8958	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. The next representative is Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8959	Thank you, Vice President, the esteemed attorney with the co-workers, the distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The everyday but very important concept that is present in our schools is included in this report. It is an inclusion as a process that puts children of the same chronological age in the same environment with and without special needs for their simplified common game, socializing and learning. It is a process of learning and raising children with special needs along with children who do not have such needs. Then these children have equal opportunities in developing their physical, emotional, social, and other abilities. Inclusion allows children with special needs to be observed, imitated and touched with children, conditionally speaking, without special needs. However, the inclusion benefits not only a child who is integrated but also a parent, or family of such a child, and the rest of the children in the environment as well as their parents. I'd like to emphasize two particularly significant moments of inclusion here. It is a direct start of education and evaluation and evaluation during schooling. Going to school is a very categorical moment for each child and usually determines the child’s attitude deep into the future of his schooling. The child loves the school, including the teacher and teachers, and anything schooling brings or becomes his biggest pain, or place of his own failure. Therefore, this school adjustment period is a particularly sensitive period for children with developmental disabilities, i.e. for small people with disabilities. I would therefore like to warn that it is necessary to pay attention as early as possible in the preschool period to identify children with difficulties in order to provide them with optimal support and assistance in time. Often, the system schedules the entire first semester of the first class, or even until the end of the school year, to delay the observation of the child and thus delay the identification of appropriate forms of education and education of children with developmental difficulties. After overcoming this instance, students with difficulties integrated into regular teaching must be evaluated and evaluated. Once again, it is very important that included students feel as relaxed and comfortable as all participants of the educational process in monitoring, checking and evaluating themselves without any discomfort, fear or stress. It is very important to provide the opportunity for all students, including in particular, to express themselves in the most acceptable way. It has been written, orally, gestureically, adjusted tests and tests, practical offices and tasks that are primarily feasible for each individual. Self-sufficient and permanent teachers, I encourage educated teachers, teachers, professional associates and other participants in education will apply in the process of monitoring, checking and evaluating integrated students with difficulties with full objectivity, professionalism and correctness, but at the same time they will be optimally demanding, careful, sensitive and very important well prepared. In order for this to be feasible and to continue to insist on empowering and expanding vocational services in schools, there should really be no school in Croatia that does not have a single professional associate. To insist on vertical and horizontal cooperation within the system and the cooperation of all institutions whose task is to care for the health, education and care of children. This report shows that the lawyer’s problem has been identified, and therefore, with the need to intensify efforts, so that they are indeed fully acceptable in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8960	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure, counsellor Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8961	... Dear fellow Spoliar, I am, I will use the replica now. [[Specially enabled.]] I just got a call from our former representative, my colleague Ljubica Lukačić, and she's following this debate closely, and of course she welcomes both the attorney and all of us, and she's like, "Please pick up and say, I can't listen anymore. There are no children with special needs or people with special needs, perhaps there are people with special needs, but in this case there are only children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities. And she begs us to adopt that termology." I can see that the lawyer is smiling and that this is how we talk, because it's just that when people with disabilities listen to it, and surely these older kids with developmental difficulties are bothered by these times that simply irritate. Here's what I just heard from your colleague because she said it a few times, but it wasn't just you, but they said it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8962	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8963	Thank you very much. I fully agree that the termology must be harmonised, only the Law on Education still implies children with special needs and are children or gifted or children with difficulties. So we can, we all know what we're talking about, and I think the problems in this case have surpassed the terminology that we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8964	Thank you. Next up for the debate, representative Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8965	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament, the Attorney General, with her associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with almost the first sentence in this report. "By establishing a separate defence office for persons with disabilities, Croatia has shown its view that this group of Croatian citizens needs additional visibility in the human rights protection system." Why am I saying that? Because problems are numerous: health care, social care, kindergarten, primary school, high school. We have heard a lot about health care, what I am kind of happy about, and I believe that it will remain on the Committee just for work and social partnership we have heard that the Ministry of Health has already made certain movements in this regard, especially as far as dental protection is concerned, and I hope that it will continue. In addition, as regards accessibility and mobility, the Ministry of Civil Engineering introduced adaptive regulations and the removal of architectural barriers. But I also have to say, and some have already mentioned it without the cooperation of the local community, but each person will find it difficult to do that. This is going to be difficult because we have a number of cases that private companies, banks, etc. Introducing certain movements for the disabled, but in a way that before you use the ramp you have to go to the bank to get the key, that's the case in Bjelovar, I won't name the bank. So I don't know which way. And so again, the problem again. I'd just look back at kindergartens, elementary and especially high school because I come from high school. I have to tell this opportunity that really teachers aren't trained enough to work with such children. Believe me, all teachers in their work with children with difficulties are made by true love, enthusiasm, selflessness, and everything else to help. I don't know how much you know about the curricula and the program. For children with developmental difficulties, the subject of politics and economy, for 2 years, you have 4-5 hints. So it's the professor who must absolutely come up with an a-z so in what way and how this curricula and the program will be implemented. Education is very little, all professors who work with such children are very happy to respond and I ask you, so here in cooperation with the Ministry of Education to do something about it anyway. These people really want to work with these children and take these children on the road that after high school they are extremely independent and trained to continue. But there's one more fact to bear in mind, that's what you mentioned. That most such children, most of them, do not all come from families that are socially endangered, or have certain problems that require both professors and classmates to engage in something they may not know to the end. Professional co-workers at school? For years, we have prayed and prayed after 10 years finally my former school has a pedagogogogogic, and psychologists and social educators because we have a class with, therefore, only classes with children with developmental difficulties plus those who are therefore in regular teaching. Assistants in the follow-up, it is a problem because actually their role is not fully defined and actually their working legal status is even quite vague and who is actually funding assistants? And they are very, very necessary. I would only have two words about employment, unfortunately we have witnessed that in jobs, especially this is sad in cities, county and some other offices sitting on certain persons, places of people who are healthy, and these are actually places of telephone, etc., port. Where we should actually give advantage to people with disabilities. And finally, that's why I started with that first sentence. I'd like to one day get to the point where the disabled, i.e. persons with disabilities do not need additional visibility, but to be accepted by society as equal members and to allow them to function fully and daily. It's my wish, I support your report, it's a great honor and I wish you a lot of success in your work still.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8966	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8967	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman of persons with disabilities, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, my debate can only be linked to the already spoken and I believe what will be in further discussions with not only commendation for the report, it is not a matter of pages. It is a matter of really thoroughness and commitment in its work and of trying to be the most close to the hand in solving the problem, suggestions would tell me to push those problems to address especially the former government. But this report in any case also showed something that says everything that should be done with those deadlines that are not only if you allow 2016, but deadlines that are essentially running from today, if I don't say since the beginning of our term of office. Of course, in all together and given the general economic situation, there is no need to seek excuses in this and this funding because there are ways in which certain things can be resolved both by legal regulations and good political will and of course by a certain volunteering which has proved to be extremely, extremely positive in Croatia. I will refer to the debates that were already related to autism and the problem that the Ombudsman has thoroughly defined and described in this report, and I also took advantage of the opportunity to work on some projects with the Heart Association. It is an association of people with cellular paralysis from Split who are really trying to ensure for their children, of course, physiotherapists and working therapists and logos in the afternoons and sports coaches so that they can have children, but also adults over 21 years of age, or older with celibral paralysis to have the opportunity to feel that part of life that is one pleasure, one normal way of life, and I also participated with them in a concert humanitarian that they worked for another association. It was last year in the small hall of the sports centre of Gripa, i.e. the basketball club Split where there were as many as 1500 viewers where they held a concert normally with accompanying professional vocals, volunteers for humanitarians for another association. Thus, absolutely when space of disabled persons is opened absolutely can be participated and helped by others, which was an exceptional message to me and an extraordinary experience in working and working with them. What they sent to me by reading this lawyer's report is absolute support to the maximum and satisfaction of her concern and effort to try. However, she is not really able to do everything but to be a spokeswoman for the disabled and to be as strong as they say, so I believe that we all say it together, and it is up to us in politics here and in the government to speed up as we just said. I also consider myself a representative who comes from Split, from the 10th constituency, and I represent all those who are in this association and who have asked me to convey that their burning problems as we have heard at this time are the most and the finance, especially as the Social Care Act provides for associations to be bearers of deinstitutionalisation, which, of course, is in line with the European Union. And regardless of these problems of local self-government and states, of course, about funding it is quite clear that there are also ways that these funding of mentioned and working therapists and physiotherapists and logos in the work of such associations that work really with children with cerebral paralysis, multiplesclerosis and similar disability to be ensured through the European Union's means of which the European Union provides maximum. Now this is the role of especially local and regional self-government, or their agencies to be in the hands of writing projects, writing programs, and there is what local self-government cannot say that there is no money, but should have good will, ability and readiness. Unfortunately, in Split, the Agency has been abolished by development, and the Development Agency is not ready to work and help such associations that are not any association, but associations are really working for the benefit of not only children but are developing one, in one way and civil society in the right sense of the word. I also said this because all of these associations such as the Heart Association with Celebral Paralysm, they are all essentially self-secret, involved in their problems, silent and maximumly working and dedicated in their work as you are in your business taking care of all the disabled. They had no choice in life, but they're also not the ones who go out on the streets and yell. They, in their own confidence, are essentially asking you to be a spokeswoman, and we as a politician, as responsible for passing regulations and laws in which they will only have better quality and normal conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8968	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit, representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Gjurkovic, you said in your debate that changing the legal rules could solve a number of problems for people with disabilities. So I would use my replica just to point to one of those problems that I've encountered in the field in the last few days. It's about the right to compensation for employment. The difficulties with the exercise of this right for disabled people have arisen from the amendment of the Social Care Act. According to the provisions of the law, a claim for the right to compensation for employment is submitted to the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of persons with disabilities whose headquarters is as we know in Zagreb, and this can also be submitted to the Croatian Employment Service. However, the Employment Service does not accept the requirements but forwards them to the fund, and the fund delivers the collected requests to the competent social care centres. Social care centres should collect the necessary documentation, provide a proposal for a solution to obtain a cash compensation and deliver it back to the fund. The Fund makes a final decision and pays the fee. So what I just said is complicated in itself. How can people with disabilities cope with all this? We can only assume. Therefore, they are not in line with this legal framework, and this is due to the inaccessibility of the right of the person with disabilities to the employment allowance. Finally, persons with disabilities and fees are received with a great delay or for a time living without these benefits therefore do not have the basic means of living, which is contrary to the Convention on Persons with Disabilities. So this law is something that must be changed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8970	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8971	I thank my colleague, Jelesh. I have to answer your line and point out that the state has committed itself to passing a law on persons with disabilities that has not been passed for 10 years in which in the same way all would be regulated compensation or receipts based on serious health damage that would be a substitute for child allowance after the 27th year of life. So there's a lot of space and I thank you for your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8972	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Advocacy Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8973	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Advocate. A lot of it in the debates is said, here's what I used the replica then, and maybe I should tell my colleagues who weren't in the last session. My colleague Ljubica Lukačić is just a representative who is a person with disabilities and with full right termology bothers her. Of course, it's not about terminology, it's about what's going to be done, but we have to respect both terminology and termism. So she wasn't anything bad, but I just wanted to warn her one more time. Namely, it warns precisely with the right of Mrs. Lukacic. Well, since I've mentioned her before, I'd like to say just one little segment. We had, of course, another SDP representative in the Croatian Parliament, and I have to say that we worked very well here because we had one piece of work among us, and we got to say from the field the right information about the Ombudsman with disabilities, and I think that it worked very well and that we, as well as members of the Committee on Gender Equality, have to be in one special way for women with disabilities to be able to make it possible for them to get into politics as effectively as possible so that they can take their place on the political parties' lists, of course where they can join the Croatian Parliament. In 2008, of course, on July 1st, there was one turning year in reality in all these barriers. Well, she also said that the defense attorney is sort of easy to solve these construction barriers. They collapse, adapt, but it took a long time to break barriers in the heart and barriers in the head, and we finally realize that our fellow citizens, our children, are finally the same as if the person with the disability or the children are now confused as I am, honestly, or are children with developmental difficulties that are just as legal as we are, but that they may need a little more care than they really need. What makes me very happy back these 10 years, and that's certainly what the D.A. said, and it's the signing of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol, along with that convention that was prescribed, and I'm not going to read it now, so we can all read it. But what is to me are personal assistants so these personal assistants we now have for 2011 already 550 assistants in total. What does that mean? That's not to be talked about, we can see here ourselves, here our attorney sits, has her own personal assistant, and it's much easier to communicate with us. Something else that is very important to me in reality, which is that it is invested in the services of interpreters of Croatian Sign Language and I think it is one big thing. I'm not talking about money. We have finances here, and I don't think that's the chance to talk here, and what's very important is that they're assistants in class. It must be said that they are one big form of support for our children in the classroom and that it certainly was, I watched one show, for sure there were problems with enrolling in kindergartens and problems with enrolment in primary and secondary schools, but these are more or less problems with barriers in the heart and head of individual school principals. When those barriers are solved, problems are solved. And I think the more we talk about it publicly and in the media in the media, of course, there's something that's not good, too few shows that would point us to artists who are disabled, I personally know at least one four. They're painters and some writers, and then our well-deserved citizens who are just as disabled as they are, so I could say that one day they'll get that title and our first lawyer for people with disabilities just as well as other people. So the doctors of science my colleague is a fellow veterinarian here he has experienced a serious car accident, just when he graduated but he has succeeded with a lot of effort and he is today a doctor of science and I welcome him this way and I admire him. In fact, a lot of us would have given up, but he showed all the power and all the honor. I wouldn't be longer. I'd like to say that this is a topic where we should all agree that we shouldn't be saving here, so here and the funds matter, of course, that they're important in the budget. We'll see when the budget is done how much funding will be allocated for individual projects for personal assistants, for teaching assistants, all of what we've listed here. We will, of course, give full support to the Attorney General at the HDZ Club. And here it is once again, I welcome our former parliamentary representatives, Mrs. Lukacic and Mrs. Škulic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8974	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the representative of Dunja Špoljar on your display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8975	Thank you very much. There I am, joining the greetings, but I will also read article 62. The Law on Education and Education, entitled "Students with Special Educational Needs" Item 1, students with special educational needs are gifted students and students with disabilities. And I will use this replica once again to commend the report, to praise the attorney's efforts and once again call upon anyone who has the authority to work on the education of teaching staff and everyone in schools in order to be as ready as possible to become involved in the education and education of people with disabilities as I specifically spoke of from an educational point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8976	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8977	... I wanted to tell you what he's telling us, and I'm confused too, and here's our viewer and viewers who are following it with interest. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] There, that's just it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8978	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. Representative Damir Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8979	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm probably not going to say anything new, but it's just a feeling of need like all of us here say something, and I hope we have a need, a desire and a will, and, of course, a decision to make. The feeling of solidarity among humans has always been an interactive factor amongst people who have engaged in certain communities, making them human and cohesive. An adequate level of individual consciousness is needed to regulate relations within the community in a way that is functionally integrated, including all segments of society in the community, as well as persons with disabilities. Such a level of responsibility makes us a community that can actively involve all its members in life and development processes. Such a community does not view any of its groups as burdens, but as potential. In this sense, they are among the most sensitive groups of people with disabilities. The ability to find ways in which this group of people in the community is not isolated but puts them into the role of active, useful and equal members of the community makes the power of civil society. This determines the ability of the community to care for all its members and to value them equally. Realising that investing in the employment of people with disabilities, their education, and simpler integration into the community are actually an increase in the working population, a reduction in the cost of social care and the creation of healthy relations in that group of people within the community. In the Republic of Croatia, there is a National Strategy, as we have already spoken here, for the development of relations with persons with disabilities, so we know that the Republic of Croatia has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the EU Council has established a strategy to promote equal employment opportunities for persons with disabilities in the labour market. The European Social Charter also speaks of the fundamental social rights of workers with the right of disabled persons to education and professional and social rehabilitation. The Constitution in the Republic of Croatia sets out a privileged way of treating people with disabilities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has established a Committee for Persons with Disabilities who determine and propose a national strategy, a single policy for persons with disabilities, and the Croatian Parliament has adopted a Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Committee for the Work of the Association with the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down criteria for the organisation of associations will be active in the interests of the state, and so will associations that gather or assist persons with disabilities. They propose financial support from the state budget, the level of legal provisions governing the living circumstances of people with disabilities, e.g. in the field of social care, labour legislation, transport, communication, education and everything that is really being exposed here today. You, Madam Attorney for Persons with Disabilities as an institution that monitors and protects the application of positive regulations in this domain, are also one of the most important, if not the most significant institution, is the question of how much they listen to you, so how much they hear your voice. In Croatia, over 300 organizations that gather or help disabled people work, and one dares to say from strong and very good associations... which seems extremely successful in my local self-government unit in the City of Trogir. [[You don't understand.]] In addition to all regulations and laws that often prescribe complicated procedures for the exercise of rights, as the expected slowness of misunderstanding of red tape in society creates a sense of the unaware administration sector, i.e. the state towards all persons with disabilities. It is extremely important to include as many citizens within civil society as possible in the regulation and activity sector to address the needs of people with disabilities, certainly in close cooperation with local self-government units. Only then, with good will, activity and joint cooperation from the Government institutions to units of local self-government and associations of each individual member of society can we raise the level of standards, living environment for disabled people. Of course, it is the only way we can bring them into a situation where they become equal members of society. Of course, it's all a beautiful story when it's read and when it's shown, when it's exposed to a pay phone but reality is a little different, and we should bring it into a different look, into a different real situation. Your attorney's report for disabled persons according to my personal conviction shows very realistically the state of the system that should take care of persons with disabilities, as well as the actions taken in terms of the relationship with disabled persons in our society. Namely, you point to all the actions taken as well as all the shortcomings in this concern in our society by segments, but also the necessary urgent actions to be done in order to ensure that people with disabilities in our society are able to feel equal and socially useful. You have very well expressed yourself in your real state of the report, perhaps even a little too mild in relation to the real state of society. Reading the report, but knowing the situation in practice, and especially in the field of my unit of local self-government, I must say that, in addition to providing basic levers in society, such as regulations regulating the status of persons, and also some separations that are normally set out in the programmes, it is necessary to resolve the possibility of funding, but also to encourage the activation and creation of those resources that local self-government units have as an opportunity to create realistically equal rights for people with disabilities. We'll definitely need some decentralised resources here, but of course all the resources we'll be able to single out ourselves. The state will have to recognise the requirements of the units so that this segment of society in its area can actually be serviced in a useful and even better way. Of course it is necessary, so as we have already said, enough resources both at the level of the central strategy and decentralised to act in the field of units of local self-government. It is necessary here to understand that investment in living conditions and inclusion in society is a obligation and a need to prevent additional costs which, as a non-investment, could arise in the person and in the service of persons with disabilities and their opportunities and early involvement in the community. It is necessary to provide for all rights that belong to persons with disabilities regardless of the social life segment, because the report makes it clear that we still have a very, very much to do here and to remove the shortcomings. It is, of course, the duty of all ministries that directly and indirectly influence the regulation and investment in better and optimal living conditions and the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities to ensure all conditions for the quality of life of persons with disabilities to be organised at an effective and systematic level of exercise of rights and opportunities. Of course, in solving and creating conditions for disabled persons, units of regional and regional self-government play an important role, but the question is how systematically local self-government can be invested in an effective system of adapting rights to disabled people. The program isn't missing, but enough resources are missing. This must not prevent us from, of course, entering into the solution to these problems. It is not enough to have regulations that regulate active inclusion in the company of persons with disabilities such as laws and all possible regulations, so it is not enough to allocate even adequate resources. So it is necessary to have a system that works, a system in which we won't have to think about how a person with disabilities will be able to secure someone's right and, of course, in which they will feel like an integral part and in which they will be able to exercise all rights as well as all other citizens, of course, according to their abilities. Every society must not and cannot be compassionate but sensitive to this group of people, because this is precisely what the maturity and strength of society expresses by not entering into the fact that within this group any member of this society can be found. And finally I have to say that what civil society organisations do is, of course, where they are actively fostering activeism is closely linked not only to volunteering as a separate concept and relationships in terms of working on care for people with disabilities but concrete engagement in work and even hiring them. I have such examples in my local self-government unit, but that's not enough. Those organisations that are successful, apply programmes, receive funds, organise workshops and invest in qualification and preparation programmes for people with disabilities in society. However, a turnaround is needed, it all needs to act as a single single system. We support this report and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8980	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit, Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8981	The esteemed representative said that society should be merciful. No, society just needs to be responsible, the system needs to be responsible because we're all equal by the Constitution and by the law, we're all human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8982	We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Agent Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8983	... You tried to quote me now, but you didn't actually listen to me. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] No, I just said that society should not be merciful, but society should rightly be sensitive to this group of people, so it respects their needs because it expresses the maturity and strength of society by not entering into that within this group can be found by any member of this society. So, not compassionate but sensitive, sensitive to solving their problems. Certainly not compassionate. Here's what was said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8984	Thank you very much. Next for debate, MP Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Attorney for Persons with Disabilities with Associates. Well, again this year, I must really commend your 2011 report because it is a summary of that great report of yours, but it thoroughly covers all parts of the lives of people with disabilities. The report really contains all the most important problems facing people with disabilities. Since much has been said today, but this is also a subject that truly deserves special attention, I must say that you have highlighted in your report three directions that you have somehow covered in the report, which is the conduct of an office that has been focused on individual cases, complaints, complaints, promotional activities, education on the rights of persons with disabilities and the implementation of the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities. I would especially like to highlight these promotional educational activities that I really think are very important. Today, we have all agreed that we really need to pay a lot of attention to this area, but I also think that we still have to educate our citizens, and for that they are certainly the most responsible for this part and this part of life of people with disabilities today, several times mentioned civil society associations that are indisputable to date, I would say the first, except for your attorney, the first and only great role really to warn, to direct the general public, the whole society to the problems facing people with disabilities every day. Today, my colleagues and colleagues Posavec and counterpart Hajdukovic spoke about the education of people with disabilities. I am also particularly sensitive to this part of your report because it binds me to the profession, but in the context of the one that is related to the employment of persons with disabilities. I am glad that already in the 2010 Report, therefore, last year's report, we could see that the awareness of employers towards people with disabilities has changed, so we no longer have to employ persons with disabilities only through those incentives that the state gives but has started to develop and one relationship positive towards people with disabilities, so a certain number of people have been employed I would say what we call on the open labour market, so equally like all other people. But what is the problem here with people with disabilities? Today, both a colleague and a colleague discussed the difficulties faced by young people, children in primary, secondary schools, and kindergartens. But one large part of people with disabilities are increasing and this is thanking God more and more young people decide to study. So, cheers up that number in the higher education system. It is certain that the actions already mentioned on removing the barriers that are being implemented, which they have funded, and you mentioned yourself, the state from the budgets and actions of the local community, that it has made it possible to make school conditions more accessible. We heard today, and I'm not going to repeat the difficulties of primary and secondary school, but I have to point out something. 17th February 2011 was held in the Croatian Parliament thematic session Higher education of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, precisely to encourage people with disabilities. This session also showed that there are difficulties at the university, that students are really very often faced, not only with these barriers which, physical barriers, but on different barriers during their education and study and, above all, about the lack of information, sufficient uninformedness, opportunities provided at the university for people with disabilities. Thus, this committee appointed a working group composed of representatives of the board, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, president of the Committee for Students with Disabilities of the University of Zagreb, because the University of Zagreb has such representatives and presidents of the Association of Youth and Students with Disabilities. In the debate, all were unanimous in the view that people with disabilities needed to be able to study without difficulty. That, above all, systematic support from all and the ministries and universities is needed to achieve this objective. In order to achieve the objective, it is necessary to establish support centres for disabled students who would provide all the necessary information or coordinate all information and activities that institutions propose and provide. So, on 10 March, this working group concluded, it concluded to the Ministry of Education and Sports of the Republic of Croatia that a coordinating body is being established within the Ministry which will enable students with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia to exercise certain rights in the field of higher education. Through support mechanisms, information and other activities aimed at obtaining education, both current and future students with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. I read this conclusion, so I wouldn't interpret it because we sent it to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, and I hope the ministry will do something about this. Here, I would like to stress that indeed everyone, but indeed everyone and good news that fellow Blazekovic has called on the ruling coalition to, in particular, by means of its own procedures and its relationship, by providing funds and associations which unfortunately are this means of this year's budget, respecting the difficulties in finance. But that in the future, we must all make sure that those rights that, by law at this time, persons with disabilities have, that they are provided and that they are truly here in education, but also in all other segments of society certainly make it easier for them to master. And I would say, not these physical obstacles that are important, but better those other legal and those obstacles that we still have in our society in our heads. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8986	Thank you very much. We have a replica on your exhibit, Agent Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8987	The esteemed representative and colleague pointed out perfectly that the most important education is the environment in which people with disabilities live so that they have the best conditions for living and working. So I will again take the opportunity to point out that one of the types of education is really a broad citizen of inclusion or education of parents of children, among whom children with disabilities are included. So it's an excellent kind of education that needs to be used and continuously, permanently practiced. There, and of course only educated teachers, networked into a system of professional associates coordinating their education, can do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8988	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here are Representatives Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8989	I answered for the reply to the replica of my colleague Spoljar because, but she answered what I wanted to answer. In the end, educated teachers can do so in the system. And I think that both the Ministry and the Education and Education Agency, which I think is a little bit of a problem with the education of peers in preschool education, in primary school and high school education, and we need to do this in a higher education that's kind of segregated, is there that doesn't have this sensitivity like this to secondary, to secondary education. Indeed, educated persons, if everything else would be and you have well completed your replica, that is what I wanted to tell you it is possible only to spend it with people who have been educated completely. So they don't make any bigger mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8990	Thank you very much. And we have another application, Agent Boris Kovacic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me also say hello, and also apologize to Mrs. Anki Slošnjak's attorney, I see you're tired and here's a sincere apology, and colleagues and colleagues are courteous, but here's someone who has to be at the end. There's already been a lot of overstatement here, and I feel really uninvited, but I need to say two three words, and I'm going to see you for a short one, primarily because of you. Are you Mrs. Slošnjak all the time, here I am speaking privately to you, but I'm sure you're imagining a society, which would actually be a civilizational reach if we weren't supposed to have this kind of discussion. This would be at least two conditions and almost all the keywords here today were inclusion and availability met. In the total fullness of what you said, as you stated in your report, but what your colleagues and colleagues have said here is that I am giving more attention to this involvement to these other people without any established disability. Because it seems to me, if it's just a question of being involved with a disabled person, if it turns into a cry tomorrow, and then we're going to come to what you're right to notice some kind of reaction that no one wants us to do out of charity, and that doesn't need especially in this society, and the least people with disabilities. But I come from a city where here we have a certain practice and some examples of good practice. I claim that the involvement of all of us is let me put it so as to call the most important of others. Education, education, and a lot of other things were said here. And that seems to me when we reach that degree, then we'll be able to talk about some better times. Of course, by this concept of availability, I mean first of all the right as you said it, the right of persons with disabilities to work and employment. So involvement, but us without established disability and this right. And to achieve all of this together here and to get to it, I think we're missing another key word that might have been a little bit today. It seems to me that it's one-partnership. Even through some examples of good practice that we could talk about from local environments to local environments that I don't bother with now, or with my examples from my city. I come from Ivanic City, by the way. Here's what I said. I'll cut the maximum. But I think we're getting these results that require single-partnership. And that's why I don't agree with Mr. Boris Blazekovic until the end. I'm sorry that he left, even with a gentleman, and Mr. Vinkovic is still here, but I'm gestures, I'm not showing, I'm like that. Until the end, I do not agree in your discussions when about Mr Blazekovic said that we should now, he meant obviously the Kukurik coalition, that it is for us, that we will organise the life of persons with disabilities. I take it with one reserve because people with disabilities are not incompetent. They can organize and teach us. We obviously need to, we need to get involved in this, and this is how we organize that life. I don't know if you agree with me personally, but here's one of my thoughts. Yes, of course. This is what Mr. Vinkovic was talking about. Of course it's easier with the money. We learned a long time ago and my grandmother taught me, so son, when you're sick, if you have more money, you'll get over the disease. Everything's easier with the money. But I assure you of examples not only of solving architectural and construction barriers but also of many others is not always all about money but is in education, involved. I've spoken to people quite well-intentioned. Even more from builders to doctors, from regular people to intellectuals. We don't think enough, we don't think maybe in a good way. You have countless examples. There are countless examples here, of course always the most picturesque and easy ones to remove construction barriers. How much more asphalting there is to forget about these as they are now called ramps and something like that. It's still there, and it's practically nothing more expensive. I'm still that witness and I'm still in my town because we've made some steps, and I'm always happy to point out that. Because it's good company, too, and it's nice to hang out with people with disabilities. Although I'm sorry on the other hand why it comes down to some manifesto. Why? That's where someone was saying the same thing. As a society, we must make additional efforts not only to be a manifesto but to make this involvement complete. Here I think I've cut a lot short. I especially thank you here and I'm glad I saw a smile on your face. I have no right to privacy, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8992	Thank you. We have a replica of your presentation by Representative Zoran Vinkovic. You'll cut it short, all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8993	Here I am going to be extremely short, too. My colleague Kovačić, I fully agree with you in one part of your exposure. I didn't mean politics at all, political parties, but we all have to create these conditions together. So, both local self-government and state and county. However, here I remember the example from my city when exactly that, the late blind person Darko Benke stuck his head with a traffic sign to raise the traffic sign, to move it required funds to, when designing, be easy to design new paths, roads, etc. There are laws where you have to put those... strips, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, changing the existing situation costs. I just want to point out the problem that today units of local self-government have less and less money, that more and more tax revenues end up in the state budget. As mayor, I'm sure you know very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8994	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Agent Kovaciæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8995	Well, of course I didn't speak in my mind either, nor did I call for political parties. But just again what you're talking about, so can't that traffic sign be higher? Is this one construction ramp already in production through this building gallantry or what it calls can't already be produced, but that we have to change after what it's called, spend money, etc. That's exactly what I'm up for. There is this change in the mental part of society, all of us from architects, construction engineers, designers to builders and carpenters. I talked to them, believe me, well-intentioned people. But, Mayor, leave this tooth, you know, that's where the water passes. I say when you push a grandchild's cart or somebody else's, that's the problem. That's right there. That's where people don't need one kuna. That's what I'm talking about. And here, of course, we can primarily go through the legal procedure, but then through this practice, they change things, nothing else. Do we agree? Finally. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8996	Thank you very much. We're done with an individual discussion. I give my word to the Attorney General, Mrs. Anki Slošnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8997	Thank you. Well, here I go, I'd just go through it all for a little while. I'm glad it was this much of a debate, and regardless of my tiredness, it doesn't even matter now, because if I wasn't ready, I would have retired a long time ago because I think the point is that we're talking more and more about this problem, and that's why we're here, and that's why there's an attorney's office. But what someone has already said isn't just this day when you should mention these problems I think we should all live daily and work on it daily, not just on education, but primarily on prevention. If we go through prevention, then we won't even get to our financial costs. Anything we solve in advance will be more cost-effective later. I am the problem of accessibility I will return to it, somehow everything from it starts and eventually ends up being really those we know that the funds are not downed and that precisely that decentralisation is within the legislative framework but cannot be financially revived. However, the local environment is the one that best recognizes its citizens and I think that the partnership that you mentioned is important on the side of people with disabilities primarily that we point to you for what is wrong because you can't know what we said about all our problems that we live on a daily basis but you can help us to overcome it and to remove these problems together if there are or to prevent it from happening. As an office, we work on these preventive educational workshops and indeed regarding accessibility issues. Here I was recently in Split, the chamber was organized by an architect company, and I'm really involved in different spectrum. We go to lectures, colleges, universities, I was at the Teacher's Academy where indeed a professor who works in the field of preschool education was so grateful that we even remembered her from the Teacher's Academy because so much ignorance is so uninformed about the specificities themselves. And then when we get to it... staff of course we have a problem because no one's prepared for it. We've been prepared all legally in some way or in the roughest frame, but actually the application in practice is far from what is real and what should really be. Yesterday we had an education for professional staff for the Zagreb and Zagreb County area, my deputy, Mrs. Pekic, behind me and I, where we have confirmed ourselves, they lack who will be their supervisor, who will be the control mechanism, what teaching staff does and how they implement these curricula programmes. We don't actually have the control mechanism of these teachers, in any way how they do it. And on the other hand, teaching staff and contact us as an office, asking what to do. I don't know the teacher says, I don't know what to do at school with a kid who's on my body, I'd love to help him, but I don't know how, who to ask. I mean to me it's kind of very much in spite of the existence of both the agency and the ministry and the interstate councils talking to us again. So they have no information at all who might be able to help them with that education. So that education and education I think still raises the question of why we educate children with developmental difficulties. Do we school so that we can say that these children have completed their primary school so that we can get them back to their homes to return to the middle and stay passive and to be burdened with their families and to talk again in a year, two, three of us having one large group of passive and Stigmatized and segregated later adults, or we really want them to finish some schools and some education that will be included in the open market labour market or other conditions that allow them according to their abilities. We need to know that not all persons with disabilities in view of their abilities remain neither able to give perhaps some engagement in some form that may be for the open labour market. But if he is given the support he needs according to his abilities, he will be able to work and he may be the best maybe for you people without disability will be some insignificant and actually a job, ah whoever does it doesn't matter at all. But that's what someone does. He also contributes to this, and he is happy to receive some compensation and a grant can, regardless of any damage he can contribute to his work and his family process, thus contributing to his economic independence. As far as the employment fees were concerned, I just wanted to say that we saw the problem and immediately addressed the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund as well as the persons with disabilities who were to receive this employment compensation, so they came to the realization that there was a chaos in this legislative framework. However, the Social Care Act that was changed now in March this year is... again for the Centre for Social Care so that both requirements and solutions and payments are kept across the centre. However, we now have a problem with the fact that we do not have the payment of these fees because clearly there has been an entire blockade of the system for the reason that such chaos has just arisen within the legislative framework. So there's a string of problems. The area of employment and work has not been touched "fairly" here today. On this area, I think we could also do seminars for two, three days of what the problem is in this area. What we have seen is that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system intends to make changes. We have proposed the last two years of truly thorough recommendations we have made to amend the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities because it is seen that this law does not need to be amended, it needs a completely new adoption. Many doubtful interpretations are in the provision, the very person with disabilities definitions in the law itself are not clearly defined. Contributions paid in salaries... to the state budget these funds were not returned again by a person with disabilities in order to be their incentive and employment, but rather, those funds were paid off in the budget and we did not have as a person with disabilities benefit from them. And the point was for these contributions to be penalties or criminal points for those who don't meet the... employment of people with disabilities. So I hope that this model that the new ones are planning will identify the ministry and that it will include all of ours and ours and the proposals of a series of associations and alliances of persons with disabilities and individuals working in this area who have recognized these problems that will again be a quality legislative framework because this one is now actually doubts and interpretations and use it by companies as they wish, not to the benefit of people with disabilities. As far as terminology is concerned, I will mention once again this clean to explain once again, the terminology, we organized a round table before 2009 when we actually wanted to bring together prominent experts and people with disabilities that they say they want to be called because the name itself can be discriminatory and ugly and oftentimes from the name itself starts discrimination. So that these names were historically changed, the disabled, the disabled person, the less-valued person, the person incompetent, etc. was used, but the term adopted in 2003 was accepted by the Sheraton Declaration in Sheraton here in Zagreb when the prominent academic community experts, together with people with disabilities, brought about the use of people with disabilities, or children with developmental disabilities. Why, because it's an accent on a person. It is necessary to look at a person as well as any other person, and the disability is its accompanying condition after the consequences or damages. People or children with special needs are the term used by many experts working in the field of education and education for the very reasons you said because it refers to special educational institutions and needs, and in that part there was a special need. And in fact, every one of us believed he had a special need, someone liked a macchiato, someone chappuccino, someone unscafe, and all of these were our special needs, whether it was a person with or without disability. In that part, too, it is really about children with developmental difficulties, or people with disabilities. What I would still like to say for the end, especially to you who are mayors, who are in the counties etc. that really when we send some recommendations they're not pustules or we want it to be some kind of frame that we actually write to you, you say okay, we change and that's it. I think the point is to change the future of those who are your citizens in your midst and each of these recommendations has some kind of power and it's based on a series of complaints of individual cases. And in that part, in fact, regardless of what area this is really about, we really don't want it to be a recommendation stored in one drawer, but really when we write something down to try to look at people with disabilities in your areas with you professionally involved, to make the best of those provisions and decisions that you can make in accordance with your abilities as persons at the top of that environment, or independent of the city, municipality or county. And lastly, I would like to tell the Government and all of you, in fact, who are making decisions on the legislative framework that it is not acceptable for these recession measures to be implemented by reducing or abolishing the level of rights achieved with persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, regardless of whether they are individuals or civil society organisations acting in their favour and interest. I thank you all one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8998	I thank the D.A.'s office with my associates. We're done arguing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made, most likely Friday. We're finishing today's session. Tomorrow we begin with the 2011 report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-30-0.u8999	The report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2011, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2011. a year." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that this conclusion with 125 votes was reached unanimously. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: - Opinions, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as observations, proposals and recommendations made by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities given in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent national authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes, 123 votes in favour, 2 abstentions of this conclusion have been accepted.
