ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! Welcome to the first session of the autumn session. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 7 September 2017! Let's start the sitting! First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On Release of Mārīte Hazenfuses from the position of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Tukums district court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Ilmārs Latkovskis, Jansons, Smiltēns, Līdaka, Ainars Latkovskis, Čigāne and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ilmārs Latkovskis from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Are Members opposed to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ilmārs Latkovskis, Jansons, Smiltēns, Līdaka, Ainars Latkovskis, Čigāne and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision on the election of Ilmārs Latkovska Member to the Commission for Sustainable Development. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting, including the draft decision on the announcement of an emergency situation, and asks to consider this draft decision as the first item of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U2	Good morning, colleagues! In its meeting of 6 September, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On Promulgation of the Emergency”. The draft decision is based on the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to declare the emergency for a period of up to three months provided for in the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situation”. After assessing the specific situation regarding floods in Latgale, two orders of the Cabinet of Ministers - Order No. 455 of 29 August, which envisages declaring the emergency situation in 27 regions, and Order No. 479 of 5 September - on additional territories to which the declared emergency situation applies. In its meeting, the Commission expressed its support for the above mentioned decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers and invites the Saeima to decide on the justification of the emergency, approving the draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to the Minister for Agriculture Janis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U4	Good morning, honourable Members! First of all, we must congratulate the start of the new job. And now let's get to this unpleasant question. Everyone knows the situation that occurred in Latgale after this storm and the big rains within 36 hours. According to meteorologists, more than 200 millimetres of... Like anything in the region. I was, too... I spent several days in Latgale. In all the mass media, on the Internet all this is visible... Well, it looked like it was driving around the fields, more than half a meter, even more places... The grains are under water, the walls are under water, the wall rolls are flooded, the fodder is coarse. So the situation is quite dramatic. In this context, we proposed to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Crisis Management Board, and the Prime Minister did so on 29 August. Before that, Livani had a meeting with 20 county leaders. The crisis management board meeting decided to move forward to the Cabinet of Ministers on declaring the state of emergency in 27 regions. I can name them to you, but in total they are 29 counties, because then, after the first meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, at the second meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, as Mr Sergeant said, the novads of Salas and the novads of Aknīste came and, after being aware of the situation, they also considered that this situation should be declared. I will not now read to you all the regulations that provide for this state of affairs, but will name all the regions in which the promulgation is proposed and the Cabinet has decided to declare an exceptional situation. Therefore, it is planned to declare the exceptional situation from 20 August 2017 until 30 November 2017 in the following administrative territories: Aglona novads, Baltinavas novads, Balvu novads, Ciblas novads, Dagdas novads, Daugavpils novads, Ilūkstes novads, Kārsavas novads, Kraslava novads, Līvānu novads, Līvāna novads, Ludza novads, Preiļu novads, Rēzeknes novads, Riebņu novads, Rugāju novads, Vārkavas novads, Viļakas novads, Viļānu novads, Zilupes novads, Aluksnes novads, Jēkabpils novads, Madonas novads, Lubāna novads, Gulbenes novads, Cesvaine novads, Varakļānu novads and Krustpils novads. As I mentioned, such districts were approved at the first meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, while these two already named, Salas novads and Akniste novads - at the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. Honourable Members! I call on you to declare this situation, because the situation is really very difficult, and I think it would be a very great step forward for farmers, because it is not just a matter of money, direct aid or direct compensation; it is a matter of contracts relating to the implementation of European directives relating to projects relating to deadlines for the execution of projects relating to international agreements for seed growers and so on, and still managed by our Rural Support Service. This is also linked to negotiations with banks and with the State Revenue Service, because the exceptional situation gives us quite other rights and opportunities for our farmers who are in such a very difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U5	Thank you to the Minister for Agriculture. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member John Ruck.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I understand and strongly support the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to declare the emergency situation in the affected regions of the floods caused by rain, but I would like to express my criticism to the accompanying document of the draft order - the initial impact assessment report (annotation). The law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situation” sets out the procedure for declaring and repealing special legal regime – Emergency or Exceptional. Article 9 of the law determines which of the exceptional circumstances when published should be indicated. Between the nine directives, the fifth order concerns the emergency response and possibly the resources to be used to compensate for the damage caused. However, on the impact of the legal framework on the economy and the administrative burden, an annotated black on white stands: “The project does not concern this area.” So there's no loss. The question arises: if the economy has not already suffered damage due to natural disasters, intense unpredictable rains, why declare an emergency? It can also be concluded that unless losses are indicated and the resources to be used are provided, there will be no liquidation and compensation for losses. Most important. If the project does not concern this area, it will not be necessary to carry out a summary of the damage and to draw conclusions as to whether there is a future need for any arrangement of the system of mel or other types of work likely to reduce or limit such flooding. The draft order also contains a good moment because the initial impact assessment report (annotation) was signed by the Minister of Agriculture Uldis Augulis, thus indirectly certifying that the exceptional situations in affected regions with roads, bridges and throughpasses are all right, as nothing is mentioned in the annotation. And if anyone has washed and swimped, it will be restored and repaired, most likely by the tiny means of maintaining regional roads. But since time is inexorable and the paper endures a lot, I invite you to support the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to declare the emergency situation in the affected regions.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U7	The name of the Member, John Crag.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U8	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, The Minister, too, had to come here today. I would also like to mention some reflections on the situation that has arisen and on the procedure. Look, when did this extraordinary situation in Latgale begin? It was the 17th, 18th, 19th and subsequent August dates. What is the date for us today? You know what it is, and at last, when we look at all the bureaucratic procedures, we have come to a formal declaration of an emergency. You know, it's really funny. The emergency is then, and I think you all understand it better than we... than I, when any events have taken place that require immediate action, where every hour is crucial. As ironically said by the Rēzekne Regional Manager: “Comprehensively, the water came from above, and if I had not acted while you were there, at the top, you will decide whether or not to declare an emergency, Viļāni would have flooded.” What do I mean by that? Look, I think we all who are here for a long time still remember what the old order was -- that the municipalities themselves were allowed to declare an emergency... declaring the emergency situation as assessed. And that was the right system! This system is simply heavy, bureaucratic and, I also believe, wrong. I do not think it was necessary to convene this meeting of the crisis management board in Livani, to which the Prime Minister was to come. Of course, during his vacation, the Minister had been in Latgale for several days and was really familiar with the situation. But was the Prime Minister supposed to go there? Was it necessary to go there to those dozens of journalists who were most likely to turn the whole situation into a show? Well, I'm sorry, I'm not sure it's right. You see, when all these negotiations took place, that the municipalities must come and ask the government to declare an emergency... It is completely wrong and absurd. I believe that it is necessary to return to the old order so that the municipalities themselves are entitled to declare an emergency situation. I have been involved in the announcement of three emergencies, and I think how many people would have died in Preiles if we had declared the emergency after this order, when we would have come to the Saeima in two weeks' time... I think it would be several hundred people. Therefore, of course, all due respect to the Minister, who spent his vacation time in Latgale and saw the situation. Thank you also to the Prime Minister, who came and carried out his duties. However, I think that he should be relieved of these essentially bureaucratic functions. And I call on Parliament to return to... consider the issue of a more flexible and operational announcement of the emergency situation, where the local government would say the key word or the key word. And, of course, now that there's even a discussion about whether it was valued there... It's even more absurd... Of course, I call on everyone to support the announcement of the emergency situation and ask everyone to listen to what I have said and to improve the order in which we are now forced to work here. Thank you. (Applause) Substitution: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U9	Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Janis Eglīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U10	Good morning, honourable Members and Speaker of the Saeima! Let me explain a little in response to the questions asked by Mr Ruck. The exceptional situation decided today by the Members of the Saeima concerns farmers who have suffered direct losses. As regards the assessment as to why such a situation occurred and who is responsible for it (in particular with regard to all these rains and the systems of remorse), that assessment will undoubtedly take place in any case. This will be done by local governments themselves as well as by the responsible ministries. If we are talking about infrastructure damage, then there are others... it is another section - from the funds for unforeseen cases - which is already being aggregated in the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and in connection with the task of the Cabinet of Ministers until 20th date, it is necessary to collect this information. If necessary, today I can already name these figures. The total amount of losses has reached EUR 4 386 191; there is EUR 1 641 852 for road repair and EUR 2 744 339 for infrastructure renovation. What concerns farmers in particular has already been mentioned by Mr Dūklav, and that is what Members are deciding on today. Resources for infrastructure restoration, arrangement and all this assessment will be provided from another... in other order, as usual in cases of such storm and rain damage and flooding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U11	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U12	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! It's very short. We have just heard a speech from a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who shows us, in essence, once again, that this ministry is able to talk a little about the problems of agriculture, about infrastructure problems, although this specific draft decision does not affect it, but still does not think about the regions and does not turn to what Mr Klazka also said, that this exceptional situation needs to be dealt with as quickly as possible. If we do not want to allow local authorities to do this themselves, then let us do it at regional level! Dear Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development! Finally, let us establish a normal regional framework so that the region can take, as in this case, a decision on the declaration of an emergency on its territory. Finally, I should also join in about the area listed by Mr Dūklavs - I would not object if the Latgale region were also composed of municipalities such as Madona, Jēkabpils, Alūksne, Varakļāni and Lubāna.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U13	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U14	Good afternoon, everybody! When natural stichia comes, it affects everyone, regardless of race, gender, nationality, hair colour, nasal size or political belief. But it seems that those who have prepared this draft decision for us think that this is not the case in Latgale. If there's a farmer and a lonely old man who is flooded... then it will apply to the farmer, but this aid will not apply to the lone old man. Yes, she does not deal with agriculture, she does not have a field, she may be the only one who is this housing, and so she will be more serious about this tragedy, and that will make it much more difficult for her to deal with than this farmer, who must, of course, help. If there is a family of farmers and a non-agricultural family, the family of farmers will be helped to cope with the problems, but the other family will have no reason to expect anything, and God will not give it! - that they will still have credit - a credit that they will have taken as a careful, responsible borrower, considering their chances that they can do so. Now, however, this emergency has arisen and their problems have arisen. If the farmer can go and say, “Look! I have an emergency!” and to ask the bank to help him with payments to set aside any payments, then that other family has no reason to be able to do so. Tell me, is that fair? Is that equal? Such a decision is made when we think about people? No, I think it is taken, not for people, but for future elections. Tell me what happened to our country? Why does this principle - "one law - one justice for all" - not work? Even the coming of the floods cannot bring it to life. Tell me, what else is to happen, who is to come? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “Elksniņa must continue to manage Daugavpils!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U15	The name of Member Janis Cragas, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U16	I am sorry, colleagues, that I have delayed you a second time, because for the first time I did not prepare a speech. And thanks to my colleague Ivars Zarins, who really touched... talked about people who suffered in this natural state in an emergency situation. Because we are talking here about procedures, procedures and journalists with television cameras that are very interested in the film. But it really is clear one thing, that what concerns infrastructure... I am sure that the ministry in question will be completed and arranged. What affects farmers' losses... The LAD will also be over. But there are people who have land properties of less than one hectare - so-called household farms. And there's a lot of such a situation when people were flooded with potato fields, carrots, cabbage - all they've planted, all went to ruin, they were washed away. There are situations where rabbits were hovered, and chickens were hovered, and this man is now coming to the municipality because he already has nowhere else to go. And that is why I also call on the relevant ministry to respond to requests from municipalities to compensate for the needs of ordinary people, pensioners or old people, as Ivars Zarins said, because municipalities do not have enough free resources to compensate for all their losses. It just doesn't! It is clear that farmers will be helped and all the respect for LAD, who works very well and collects this information! But we and the relevant ministries need to think specifically about these home farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U17	Thank you. Name to the Minister for Agriculture Janis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U18	Honourable Members! Of course, the issue raised by both Mr Zarins and Mr Cragas has been taken into account. I cannot tell you that every carrot or copeel will be paid, but at the government sitting this issue has also been addressed - in the case of private farms. And municipal managers, municipal members... Also in Livani, where Mr. Cragas also took part... He heard that the Prime Minister's position was, in my opinion, very right... Although the colleague of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development did not say that it is also appreciated that the loss has been caused to people who, in their private farms, in their own homes, in their small farms, have produced crops and who have also suffered losses. So, I think, the municipalities have to do this. And not in full... It will also not be full for farmers... These compensations must definitely be paid and will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U19	Thank you. The name of the Member, Janis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U20	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! If two Johns have already spoken, the third will also speak. And in fact, the story is that on August 17, the morning came a little nervous enough. Call, alarm, surveyed areas, negotiations with farmers... Yes, and early in the morning there were also calls to the Minister of Agriculture, and I think, here in Riga, no one believed that the situation was really extraordinary. In many municipalities too, perhaps they did not react accordingly to convene their commissions, evaluate them all together, and communicate them more quickly between municipalities, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Cabinet of Ministers. It's just 22 days since that night and the day this amount of rain rises, which is comparable to one metre of snow that dries in one day. The farmers are talking... The big farmers said: “We understand that business is business, everyone has their own risks, everyone has their own thing, but there are things we need! We need negotiations with the banks! We need an intermediary to negotiate with the Rural Support Service! We need to understand what the Ministry will do!” If it had happened in Zemgale and it hadn't been, say, in Baltinava, Kārsava or Viļaka district, located 240 kilometres from Riga, then it would have been a long time ago with tractors, big machines and knocked at the Cabinet of Ministers or the President's Palace. The Latgale people are patient, but they call for: “Be understanding, understand these situations, respond more quickly and do not put us in doubt for 22 days! To avoid falling asleep and to understand if we dare to enter into new contracts, whether our partners will understand us and whether we will be supported!” Dear colleagues, We certainly need to react more quickly, understand faster, talk to each other faster and trust each other more quickly. I support this draft decision. I call on you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U21	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U22	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! 22 days were needed to realize that our country had a bad Minister of Agriculture. Well, it was all clear a long time ago. You have a vacation in Latgale, you rest there. What vacation? I understand that a farmer can make funny videos and swim in his rye field in the raven, and the whole nation likes it... ( In between: “It was wheat! ” ) But in his own. And you're resting at that time. You needed 22 days ago, when all this happened here, Mr. Duklav, you needed your press service, with everything you have been given, with all the ministerial mandate to call... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Kruz: “But he was there!” ) I don't know... every day press releases send that it is immediately necessary to declare an emergency situation. Not every day in the same release copy-paste, but send it, do it, take it! Did you do that? No, no! You, as an old Communist, knew what this system was like, how big is the bureaucratic apparatus about which Klaz has just told you. And now you don't even listen, but you're laughing behind my back. You've all been out of here for 29 minutes now - how sad the situation is and how we're going to act now, in 22 days' time. That's it! Stop it! Eliminate the emergency so that this mechanism, which has not already been oiled, can finally start working! 22 Days have passed! What, LRA, are you completely mad? What other bureaucratic apparatus do you still need to combine, I don't know, some techniques? Work! Make this decision operational! Let's go! 22 Days have passed! Do you need to be embarrassed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U23	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U24	Yes, Mr. Neighbours! The decision will be taken and the emergency situation in these 29 regions will be announced. Don't worry about it. But now... you, as an agricultural stranger, who like other things, has a business... Of course, 22 days in agriculture is a lot. The harvest and the entire summary are actually carried out after 1 October, when the harvest is harvested. This year, of course, it will be very poor quality and the quality of feed is also very poor. And give God so that this poor harvest may also be delivered. Because if the analyses show that there are more than 10 percent of sprout grains, they are simply not taken. But in this case, that's 22 days... Yeah, there's a long process, but it won't make any difference at this point. That's the emergency... There are farms that have taken on... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: Putra, vote! ) has concluded contracts for the delivery of cereals of specific quality in the winter. This will help farms directly in this case, as in exceptional circumstances these grains may not be delivered and other qualities may also be supplied. This is the most important thing right now. But, of course, we need to act more quickly. However, at this point, the accusations to the Minister for Agriculture, for your part, are a clear current populism and will always be so.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U25	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U26	Colleagues! There's one question I haven't been able to do... receive an answer at this meeting, which is as follows: Mr. Dūklavs has told (also in interviews) that the solution would be quality farmers, harvest and so forth insurance. I am concerned at the current situation that, in circumstances of force majeure, even these few of the insured will not be allowed to pay... payment from insurance because there is an emergency and, in relation to the insurer, a case of force majeure. I am concerned that we will shift insurance - the responsibility for this decision - to national costs. Let us take this responsibility completely. Because the emergency situation... Most insurance contracts are the phrase that insurance does not cover emergency situations. I asked for this matter to be considered, and for the lawyers to give an explanation. It should not be our decision to give insurers the opportunity to fail to fulfil their obligations. I just... It was my proposal, so I came here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U27	The name to Member Edgars Putra, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U28	Mr. Schitz! Unfortunately, the situation with insurers is quite simple. As soon as the grain remains yellow, no compensation shall be paid. It is not paid at a time when the grain has reached its maturity and it is not paid for the damage caused by forest animals. So now, this insurance is under the tail of a cat!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U29	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something? The rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Banks” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fishing” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Meetings, Processions and Pickets” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on cooperative societies presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Protocol amending the Treaty on the European Vehicle and Driving Licence Information System (EUCARIS)” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Song and Dance Festival” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Mr Platoper, will you talk about it or 'no'? So Arvīds Platopers has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U30	Dear President, Dear Members, As a long-term representative of the Song Festival, both as a choir manager and as a chief conductor, it seems to me that this document has once again been hasty and has not been discussed in its field. By the way, I think no senior conductor knows that the following amendments have been proposed. I understand that its initiative is very beautiful. So far, there was an action committee, which included all the institutions responsible for safety, health, creativity during Song Festivals: State Police, medical service, local authorities in general, Riga City Council institutions... And then I wonder why it is necessary for this action committee to set up an operational steering group of exactly the same persons. I will count: State Police, Security Police, State Fire and Rescue Service, Emergency Medical Assistance Service, Disease Prevention and Control Centre, Riga Municipality Police and Riga City Council Traffic Department. All these representatives are always invited and talked about what needs to be done to be all... Why, then, do we need such a body? There is nothing to do with these institutions? We have so many specialists who will be working during the Song Celebration, of course, on state budget resources, and will duplicate the actual composition of the action committee. Then the action committee... In my sense, there is a proposal to reduce... to be responsible only for artistic, and then this operational group will be responsible for security in the country during the event. I think this is simply the first issue to be discussed, first of all, by professionals in the sector, and then the Minister could propose such an amendment. And the other. Article 4 of this draft law adds that for many things choirs, orchestras, folk music ensembles throughout the lifetime of the participants, for activities such as participation in the Song Festival Final... Let's say, I'm using the room in which I sing, and it turns out that I'm going to have to pay for this bill. And who's going to pay? The municipality. If the municipality sends seven collectives, then all the places that they will use in Riga will have to be paid. I think that the state must, however, take some responsibility. This is a national holiday, and such a silly proposal should not be encouraged, because the municipalities maintain their collective efforts within five years, pay for the premises, infrastructure, everything. And now, at the celebrations organised by the state, we again demand that the municipalities pay. It would be as if I invited the guests to my birthday and would make them pay for all the food and drink and so on. ( Interface: “It’s very right! ” ) I therefore call for this draft law not to be put to the vote this time, so that the industry can finally, not here, but in the ministry, speak it and then send it a document that we can approve. You don't know many things because you participate in this festival, not as representatives, but as guests mostly. And I think that the National Union should have a greater responsibility, because it is so big that we need to maintain patriotism and the rest here. We need to think about performers who are patriots! Yes, they spend their free time to preserve the culture of the people. And the state must come against them, not once again put the issue of funding on the back of the municipalities. Thank you for your attention. I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U31	Thank you. Does one of the Members want to talk about passing the draft law on to the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Song and Dance Festival to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Participation of the Republic of Latvia in the Flexible Mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detention Procedures” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Secret” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Restriction of Face Coverage” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U32	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. The Presidents of the people, who are very respectful! Highly honored servants of the people! First of all, I would like to say that the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia is in favour of a further view of this draft law by the Commission. I would just like to remind you that it was two years ago - in September 2015 - that we submitted a very similar draft law, which meant that public places were not allowed to have a hidden face. At that time, it was essentially related to the forthcoming reception of refugees from the war-affected areas, but today too, the idea has not become obsolete, because it lives at a time when cultural and religious boundaries cannot be strictly defined. Even then, we justified the necessity of our draft law with three things: first, with Latvian and Latvian culture... preserving the cultural environment; secondly, ensuring internal security and, thirdly, gender equality. On the first I can say and remind only that dress culture is also a part of culture and clothing shows whether an individual respects or ignores the norms of society. Unjustified facial closure may be used to perform illegal activities. Some example: If someone or someone has a covered face, it is difficult to recognize them as witnesses and it is equally impossible to recognize them by technical means. Therefore, I think that we should leave these traditions of other religions and other cultures to the relevant territories where they are traditional. And finally, gender equality. In Western society, facial cover is seen as an outdated tradition that prevents women from enjoying freedom and equality. I will briefly quote one part of the annotation, which contains very long and widely reflected expert opinions, including those of religious communities, and one of these communities believes that, however, the closure of faces should be allowed, and this is justified by the following: “Nicab is a sign of what to pursue - true spiritual intrusiveness and the supremacy of the spiritual aspect over physical matter. A sign of a desire to draw close to God, not a sign of what attracts most people (and, in the case of women, of embellishment to show themselves to other people in order to envy their self-esteem and greed).’ End of quote. In my opinion, this quote shows why this draft law really needs to be moved forward and approved in Latvia. As I said, two years ago we, the Association of the Regions of Latvia, submitted a similar draft law. At the time, the supporting Members of the government considered that such a provision was not necessary in the legislation and rejected it. It is now finally understood that such a draft law is necessary. We saw that 22 days were needed in the event of an emergency in part of Latvia's eastern territory, but in this case it took two years for the government to understand that action should be taken. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this shows why we are unable to keep up with the Western developed countries, which is that we are drawing decisions in such a long way. I call for support to be given to this four-article law - its referral to the commissions responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U33	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are therefore no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Losses caused by State Administration Institutions” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the Bureau report on the proposal for an own-initiative opinion. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application submitted its own-initiative proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 11 212 Latvian citizens “On Open Votes in the Presidential Election”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is therefore no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Julija Stepanenko on 13 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Julia Stepanenko to grant her unpaid leave on 13 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Ringold Balodis on 21 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ringolds Baloža requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 21 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Julija Stepanenko on 21 July this year. The Saeima Bureau received an application from Member Julia Stepanenko to grant her unpaid leave on 21 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 27 July this year, Jūlija Stepanenko, Member of the European Parliament, granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau received an application from Member Julia Stepanenko to grant her unpaid leave on 27 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Julija Stepanenko on 28 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Julia Stepanenko to grant her unpaid leave on 28 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 7 September this year, Mr Aldis Adamovičs was given unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Alda Adamovich requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 7 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ivanas Ribakova from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity of the Saeima Member Ivanas Ribakova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Ivana Ribakova to the Committee on Petitions. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Ivana Ribakova, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Jeļena Lazareva, member of the Saeima, from the Committee on Petitions. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Jeļena Lazareva, member of the Saeima from the Commission of Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Ms Jeļena Lazareva, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Jeļena Lazareva, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On release of Mārīte Hazenfuses from office of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Tukums district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U34	Hello, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 5 September, the draft decision “On the release of Mārīte Hazenfuses from the office of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Tukums district court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Mārīte Hazenfusi to release from the office of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Tukums district court from September 16, 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Mārīte Hazenfuses from the position of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Tukums district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ilmars Latkovska from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ilmars Latkovsky from the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Member Ilmars Latkovska to the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Ilmars Latkovska to the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Labour Protection Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U36	Hello, honourable colleagues! Dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined, conceptually supported and led decision-making in the Saeima sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Labour Protection Law”. This draft law complements the law on labour protection with a sixth chapter, entitled ‘Administrative responsibility in the field of labour protection and competence in the application of penalties’. This draft law is designed to provide a framework for the implementation of the codification of sector-specific administrative infringements. I also inform you that the entry into force of this Law is provided for at the same time as the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Violations Procedure, and the administrative violations proceedings referred to in Articles of Chapter 6 of this Law will be carried out by the State Labour Inspectorate. Please support the Commission's opinion and vote in favour of this draft law at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on labour protection. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U38	The deadline for tabling proposals for second reading is 22 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U39	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U40	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In its sitting, the Legal Commission reviewed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law (No 664/Lp12). Nine proposals have been received. The amendments are provided for in Articles 386 and 387. Article 386 concerns investigating authorities. The proposal has been received from the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola and has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U42	The proposal by Dana Reizniece-Ozola is also a proposal and has been endorsed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U44	Proposal 3 is a proposal from the Legal Commission, which has been partly supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U45	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U46	4. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which is also partly supported and included in 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U47	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U48	5. is a proposal from the Legal Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U50	6. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Some support has been given and included in the proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U51	The proposal is supported and included in proposal 7. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U52	8. is the proposal of Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U53	Seventh! Seventh!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U54	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U55	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. That is something that Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U56	Yeah. 8. is the proposal of the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who unfortunately has not received support, because it provides for a deadline for the entry into force of the law. This proposal was due to take place on 1 January 2018, but since the financial police and customs police were scheduled to be merged, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U57	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U58	9. is a proposal of the Legal Commission which excludes the entry into force provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U60	Please submit proposals for third reading...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U61	The Commission is therefore asking for support to be given to the draft law at second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 2 and for - 15. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U62	Thank you, colleagues. I was a little ahead of events. Thank you for supporting this draft law. And I ask you to submit proposals for the third reading by 12 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U63	12, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U64	12.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U65	Yeah. Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 12 September of this year. The next item is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the open vote in the presidential elections” of 11 212 Latvian citizens”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U66	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! In accordance with Section 131.5(4) and fifth paragraph of the Seimas Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application examined the collective application of Latvian citizens “On the Open Vote of the President of Latvia”. The Commission listened to the applicants who invited the Saeima to replace the word “in secret” in the relevant Article of the Satversme with the word “in public”. Currently Article 36 of the Satversme provides: “The President of the State shall be elected by secret ballot by a majority of not less than 51 members of the Saeima.” The grounds for the application refer mainly to the number of signatures collected, which shows that the public wants to know how the members vote for the state's senior officials, of which the President of Latvia is currently the only one who is elected secretly. At the same time, the applicants express the opinion of the non-governmental organisation “Delna” that an open vote on the President of Latvia would increase the responsibility of Members before the public, making them justify their choice. Having evaluated all the information received, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application decided to prepare the draft decision of the Saeima together with the Legal Bureau and to submit this application to the Working Party of the Legal Commission, which has been dealing with this issue for two years – the evaluation of the election procedure and powers of the President of Latvia. The Commission unanimously supported the collective application of 11 212 Latvian citizens “For an open vote in the Presidential elections” and decided to hand it over to the Legal Commission for evaluation by 1 December of this year. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U67	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U68	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. The Presidents of the people. Highly honored servants of the people! The Association of Latvian Regions stands for open and fair presidential elections, stands for a strong nation-elected President of Latvia. At the moment, however, this is not possible, because the majority of the Saeima does not trust the same society that has elected the Saeima. Where you going! I guess some honourable Members do not trust themselves because they carefully hide their vote from the public so that the public does not know who has elected the President of the Republic of Latvia. Yes, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we still do not know how Mr Vejonis has come to the chair and which Members have elected him. Is that a state secret? Let that remain the conscience of the Members concerned, but it must not be the case in the future. And the least we can do in this situation is to decide, at least, that the President is elected by an open vote. As early as January 2015, the Association of Latvian Regions had submitted draft laws on amendments to the Constitution and the Law on Election of the President of Latvia, providing that the President of Latvia is elected openly by a majority of not less than 51 members of the Saeima. The Association of Latvian Regions believes that this will ensure transparency in the work of Saeima Members and exclude unfair manipulations. It will prevent Members from making their choices public and explaining them to the public. We believe that it is the duty of every Member to publicly justify his or her decision to the public in the vote on the President of Latvia. Two years have passed, and the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia” (No 178/Lp12) is still in the drawer of the Chairman of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and is not directed to further consideration in the Saeima. This is the case with the tacit consent of the coalition Members. We will not be surprised if the representatives of the next - the 13th Saeima - once again of the same political force - Unity, the Greens/Famiends Union, the National Alliance (regardless of what they will call themselves, in the future) promise, just as they did before the 12th Saeima elections, that the President will be elected openly, but that, after the election, there will be a rapid loss of not only of memory, but also of conscience, and will again forget the promises made to the voters. I hope that, at least now, the members of the Committee on Public Administration and Local Government will listen to the views of 11 212 voters and will finally begin to push this issue forward in the Saeima. The political game - trade with the election of the President - must stop. The public has the right to know which Members have elected our country's first official. Please vote in favour of moving the application further. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U69	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U70	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, It is true that these more than 11 000 people who have signed this initiative have shown that there are problems with the current procedure for the election of the President. But we do not need to solve these problems by some means that do not match the Latvian parliamentary state equipment. We do not need a sudden nation-elected president or one president with an extended mandate, who with this extended mandate would be like a prince on a white horse and who would suddenly rescue us all. We simply need to replace the word ‘in secret’ in the Constitution with ‘in public’, and then the last remaining political market, namely the election of the President of Latvia, will simply end. Colleagues, each of us has seen the end of the political market for the election of other officials, since we have had open votes. We vote here, the officials are starting to work, and we... Those who did not vote according to their proven choice do not have to hide at the corners and do not lie to journalists and the public what the vote was then. And, my fellow Members, unfortunately, the fact that we have a senior official of the state, the first official of the state, who is, however, the person who shows to our society the far-reaching star and vision to which we want to move, are still in political market conditions, leaving a very heavy impression on any President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, we were all able to read the so-called oligarch negotiations this summer, and although there are people who believe that these negotiations are probably not authentic, the authenticity of the negotiations has been demonstrated by the negotiators themselves - both Mr Urbanovich, who apologize to the people who have been very embarrassed in these negotiations, and Mr Lemberg, who called it accusing of the men, and Mr Duklav, who has said that they are usually embarrassing them. And so on. Among these negotiations, one quote for the political market in relation to the election of the President. Speaker of the Saeima! We do not have a certain way of reading quotes that contain harsh words of foreign languages, so with your permission, I will replace these harsh words of foreign languages with the word ‘pi’. Lemberg: “It’s a guy! And what's he doing? He tells Andrey that he should say something about the bill. Who's interested in Andra's bill? What's he going on? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “On the topic!” ) Who is interested in Andra’s bill, pi? Now the only oligarch Lemberg. But what is the second term for him?” And this is about the President of Latvia Gunti Ulmani. ‘ So he didn't have a voice. I'll tell you, he had about 40 votes. And Andris to me at that time... It was just before our great war... Andris says, “Listen, devil, give it to Ulmani!” I need that Ulman?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But he needs it. And we put what we can there from the opposition, and there was no voice on the way either. And together we collected, I think, 13 votes. I was about eight years old, and Andris had five. No, we even collected more -- 15. I had nine, Andrim six, pi. And he got 57 votes, that's Ulmanis. You know, it's all beautiful! But we know we thought, and there was a certain budget. Not for beautiful eyes. Ulmani should be Andrim, pi, arm kissing all the time, pi. All right, he doesn't know about my role at all, because Andris has been in contact with him all the time.” Thus, the oligarchy negotiations, which were declared authentic by those involved, contain a quote of this kind from the 1996 presidential elections. Perhaps someone will say that, unfortunately, such events may have been and the political market has been in the 1990s, but now probably there is no such political market anymore. But, colleagues, let's look at what happened in 2015 in this Saeima to elect a president! In the first round of the election of the current President, 35 votes were promised to him, 34 of them being received. Second round 35 votes promised, 34 votes received. Third round 35 votes promised, 35 votes received. In the fourth round, where the Vējonis remained in two with the other candidate, Mr Levite, 35 votes promised, 46 votes received. Colleagues! The public never knew where the 11 votes came from and how they were “ordered”. Perhaps there was some budget there, perhaps not. We will never know that. Colleagues, please, to the centenary of our country, we will present to our society the open votes for the President, and then we will not need to fantasize for the people's elected president, for the extension of the President's mandate! Let us simply receive and replace it with one word "covered" and let us do it in the near future! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U71	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U72	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, we are not talking today about amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia as a draft law that we could discuss here as Members of the Saeima. We are talking only about whether we will respond to the citizens' call - the appeal of a large number of citizens! - to present this initiative to the Working Party of the Legal Commission - not even to the Commission, but simply to the Working Party! - for discussion. So I hope that we can do at least such a small thing today and hand over this task force. I will not allow some illusions about what will happen with this initiative later in this working group. But talking a little bit about the arguments... I will not talk about these oligarch negotiations. Mrs. Chigan has already marked them. In my opinion, when we read them, someone may have got so bad with the heart to someone - just a shame to someone who didn't want to read it anymore. That's why I don't want to talk about it. But let us talk about democracy, which we all very much appreciate, because thanks to democracy we have our own country at all and we can be here in the parliamentary round. Many countries have succeeded in growing up in democracy, getting educated, growing up from generation to generation, so this aspect of ethical democracy is understood by all the nerves of the back. Our country will be a centenary next year, half of these hundred years spent under the totalitarian burden of the Soviet Union, where we cannot talk about democracy at all. Of these remaining 50 years of democracy, there has been, as it were, also authoritarianism, unfortunately ruined Latvia's democracy in the 1930s for quite a long time, and we see that, after the restoration of independence, democracy was also received as a great gift, but whether it was actually always used or caught, it is also a question. That is why - whether an open vote or a secret vote is more democratic - it is a philosophical debate about chicken and egg. In Latvia's situation, when we see how democracy is used to cover it or another great deal, I think that this democratic argument does not stand criticism. I'll read to you one quote from us lawyers of a very beloved scientist, Karl Dishler. He said in the 1920s, commenting directly on the emergence of all constitutional organs in the Republic of Latvia, their creation, said: “Does the secret vote rule out the influence?” He replied: “Oh, no! A secret vote can quite well be used to cover secret conversations and compromises. A secret vote can promote in the Saeima itself the political and corruption against which so beautiful words have been spoken from all sides.” That's what happened. And it is precisely this secret vote, which has now remained solely for the election of the President of Latvia, that so many beautiful words have been spoken about: we are talking about it from here on fuel once. Some people vote 'no', others vote 'yes'. I think it would be naive today to think that we're going to change our mind here. I call at least for the matter to be referred with respect to the Working Party of the Legal Commission. As a member of this working group, I will also try to keep this issue alive there, but I call once again for real amendments to the Constitution not only to call for it to be passed on to the working group. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U73	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U74	Dear colleagues! The Pandora box is open again, with all its consequences. I do not want to talk about the substance of the proposal as such, because every tree, as we know, has two powers. But two things I can't touch. First. It was criticised that the Commission of State Administration and Local Government does not see the proposal of the Association of Regions of Latvia for the elected president of all the people... Why not? Because it makes no sense, as no proposals for amendments to the Constitution have been tabled. This draft law could have been discussed on several occasions in the Saeima, we can work on it, but if the Constitution is not amended, all this work has no meaning and no meaning. The other thing. In my opinion, proposals that come from the population and that concern amendments to the Constitution cannot have the same barrier - 10 000 voters - as any other issue. Because it results in a rather paradoxical situation that we decide on the keeping of wild animals in the same number as we do when deciding on the procedure for the election of the President of Latvia. And it seems that it should be considered here that any solution that concerns the amendment of the Satversme also affects the Saeima and still should be seen with the largest number of supporters, as it affects all citizens and all voters. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U75	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U76	Good morning, colleagues! We are talking about the opinion of 11 212 Latvian citizens. I am convinced that there are many more people in Latvia; there are many who think just like these 11 thousand... these more than 11 thousand, because just as we have seen it here for many years, they have seen these processes from the sideline - hypocrisy, lies and incomprehensible way of getting to the country's first person, who symbolises perhaps their connection... which is a mediator between political parties and symbolises the state. Colleagues! Today it is not a single initiative that perhaps amends the Constitution with one word (the word "public" is proposed to replace the word "cover"), but rather the foundation of Latvia's state. On which state power of Latvia is built. And here you can think in two directions. One is such an old and maybe ancient model of Byzantine thinking, which may have remained a little since Soviet times. And there are people who also think so in Latvia - that it is not for us to control our country themselves, but for us to elect a leader who will do everything for us, and then we will have to be less concerned about whether there is such a budget or some other problem in the country; he will decide everything for us. And, guided by the bizantic pattern of thinking, there are quite many countries in the world: Syria, where there is Bashar al-Aad, North Korea, where there is Kim Chernir... In the neighbourhoods too, this Byzantine model nevertheless prevails, namely, such a cult with Putin. But I have to understand that this belief that we need a leader who will do everything for us is always very bad in history. It has led to the common loss of power by the nation and possibly even a half century, bloodshed, and pain to the nation to regain its power. And we can read Article 2 of the Satversme: “The sovereign power of the State of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia.” And there's a second thinking model - a model that I agree with as a person who has experienced a little while in Soviet times but has grown in principle independent in Latvia - it's a democratic thinking model, a Western thinking model that is rooted rather in Athens policies. That is, there is the idea that the nation must be the one that governs its own country. This means not to delegate power to a leader, not to get under his tub, not to be dependent, but to participate in his own national administration. What does that mean? This means exactly what the Fathers of the Satversme put into the foundations of the State of Latvia when writing the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia a century ago. All the architecture of the Satversme is based on the system of parliamentary democracy. This is not about a semi-presidency or a presidential system of a leader, but about parliamentary democracy! Colleagues, that is what we need to protect. So two things have to be done quickly. This initiative must be supported. As Members of the Saeima, we must prove that we are able to make decisions and, moreover, quickly. Make the following changes to the Constitution: To establish that the presidential elections are open. Let the people know their heroes. Let him see who has voted. And not to hope for a leader who will come and handle all problems of Latvia, but next year we must elect a good Saeima, who will serve the interests of society and represent the interests of the Latvian people. Therefore, to the centenary of Latvia that we will celebrate next year, I call on Latvia to present not some leader, but good amendments that would respond to the feelings of society and give people what they want to see - the protection of parliamentary democracy in the Republic of Latvia. Thank you, and I call for action - less talk and more action.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Āboltiņa, Gaidis Berzins, Cilinskis, Brigmanis and Zarins are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. So we are continuing the debate. Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U78	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The national association has always supported the open presidential elections. In all the votes that have been cast, the National Union has voted in favour, and the National Union is now also in favour of open presidential elections. Because if a president (no one would be called on behalf) were elected in public, not in secret, then it would probably be easier for many to explain why he is in favour of granting automatic citizenship to non-citizens' children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U79	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U80	Hello, brothers and sisters! I like this initiative - to return to the “good” times of Communists. As it was in this space in the 50s, 60s, 70s and 80s: all shall be elected by public ballot. You like this initiative! Interesting! Why are we doing this? I want to understand. Go back to the “false” Communist times, where every time... Hey, you're not the Communists! Next question. Now I began to understand the entire range of these wild animals that were here. We don't have such wild animals in the circus, but what an estuary left! Those forces over these media have tried an interesting idea to check whether it is still working. To say, we will give information to the media, let us put a lot of pressure on us and let us see how Members will work. Will Members do what we want? And I say, as a former businessman, that is an interesting initiative. I would also like the national votes to be open. I want to see my employees vote. I ask them to vote for me. Have they voted for me or not? I'd like to see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U81	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U82	Dear President, Honourable Members! At a time of general enthusiasm, however, I would also like to remind you a little about some risks. I very much like the reference made by Mrs Chigane to previous elections. But why not the last? And I'll tell you why. If I asked Mrs Chiganne why she did not vote for Levit in the last elections, she would explain to you very eloquently why she should not have voted for him. If we asked Mrs. Āboltiņa why she did not vote for Levit, she would explain why... ( Independence: “He voted! Second place! You confused! Aleksandr!” ) Vote? Okay. I'm sorry. I'm an example. I'm so sorry! ( Milestones.) ... But as a result, Levit was not elected, and everyone will explain why he did not vote on it in public as well. I will give you an example. A group of sponsors will appear in the next elections, which is... ( Fractional Unity is an intermediate.) If we speak seriously, there is one weakness in the open vote: sponsors can control what you have voted on. For example, in the next vote there will be a group of sponsors who will want a president travelling to Azerbaijan, who is travelling to Uzbekistan, who is travelling to Russia and developing all kinds of economic relations. We know that there are, let us say, economic sanctions against Russia, but the President has enough opportunity to meet in different meetings, informal meetings, and to promote trade relations, but it cannot be said publicly. So an agreement will be reached between some two parties, the voice may not be enough... And its negotiations are going to take place in the backstage, honourable Members! Those who lack these votes will apparently be offering some kind of donation to a group, and this group will agree. And the discipline of the group will be that you will have to vote in open votes... Well, I won't say that, let's say, about Grigul, but maybe another great candidate who travels to Azerbaijan, goes to Kazakhstan, and she will be elected president. In open vote. Then we will say, "Why have you voted for him?" Well, she won't say, "I was driving, I met with Czechs and organized some kind of cargo flows to Latvia." Voters will say, "You see, she has a great experience, she is in the European Parliament, she has international relations." So let us be careful! Let us, of course, support this vote, because more than 11 000 people have made this request, their will must be respected, but let us not deceive here before the elections that there are no risks! In my opinion, these risks are very high, and those risks are in exactly the way: if the vote is closed, someone can ignore the interests of these sponsors and can vote 'no' and vote in his own conscience, but here he will now have to vote in favour, despite his conscience. So he will have to vote exactly as the sponsors have decided and as the party leader has decided. But, of course, I say: we are now voting in favour. And let's see. But let us not fool or tell you that there is no risk for this system either! Those risks are very high, and we obviously will have to fight against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U83	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think Alexander Kirštein can quite agree. And there will be no difference: there will be similar negotiations. Yesterday, we had a significant discussion in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Here we have already mentioned the "Rīdzene" negotiations, and right in this regard, when the Commission's management ironed itself into the "Rīģene" negotiations, colleagues said: "Why did you sign up for the establishment of its own commission?" The answer, you know what it was? What did Ainars Latkovsky say? ‘ Fraction discipline! You don't know anything like a group discipline?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We had to sign!’ And now let's think about the situation. Thanks to the philanthropists, we were placed on the wall of Article 1 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia: “Latvia is an independent democratic republic.” In fact, if this idea is followed, it should be written: “Latvia is a fractional republic”, because groups discipline is above everything. This is Inese Lībiņa-Egnere quote Dishler. By the way, the interesting thing is that Dishler is getting more and more popular. On Monday, Aivars Lembergs quoted Dishler in a television discussion conducted by Rēder. Guntis Ulmanis revealed to the working group of the President of Latvia that he had read Dishler's day and night when he was elected President of Latvia. But there are other, even bigger people besides Dishler, such as Thomas Hobbs with his work Leviatāns, Montesquie with his work “On the Spirit of Law” and Jean-Jack Ruso with his work “On a Public Contract”. All this is, in fact, the basis of our democracy. Every lawyer and political scientist and anyone who is interested in politics knows this. And here everyone is interested in politics! Jean-Jack Ruso writes about open and secret votes in his work “On Public Contract”. He writes that when all of Rome was still based on conscience, the relationship between the Romans was just, and all the votes were open, for no one was afraid of their vote. But when Rome fell apart and went down, it was better to choose the secret votes so that it would be possible to vote something according to its conscience, not, as Alexander said, according to the will of the sponsors. Lolita Chigane is not sure: she has voted in favour of Levite. Well, I know she already voted in favour of Levite. Like me. We cannot prove this already - there was a secret vote. But if it were an open vote, Solvitas Apple thumb up or down, Brigman thumb up or down, or Silver arm up or down... This would be a solution to this vote, and there would be no discussion. At least it was an opportunity to vote in accordance with your conscience. ( Insight: “In harmony! ” ) What he wanted could be photographed in that cab and started on social networks... I think its discussions... Well, they won't succeed. Both cases are not too good; the only way to do something is through the conclusions of the working group... And I think that's a keyword... that something is wrong with the President's election model... That's what Lolita Chigane said... is fully supportive. In this way, will it be all right when we decide on an open vote? Oh, no! You know, I think there's going to be a serious discussion, let us say, about the election of the Kalnmeier as the Prosecutor General. Well, now... I know that we all voted like "in favour". Also on the head of the KNAB, everyone voted in favour. And the coward is to vote differently... But at least that would be some kind of... a slight spark of democracy if it were to vote in secret. Colleagues, I think we really have to respect those 11 thousand, but it's hardly going to be better and they don't think they're going to leave this house and they won't be doing it like in the "Rīdzene" negotiations. Well, there will be no “Rīdzene”, there will not be a zoo, but there will be a group leader's office to tell the group leader: I need such or this result. So thank you, and I would say, don't be happy that everything will finally be better if we vote openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U85	The name of Member Lolita Chiganis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U86	Dear Mr. Balozh! Dear colleagues, Apparently, when ancient Rome and ancient Greece are quoted, when all the high-jurisdiction theorists - Mr. Dishler and all the others - have been quoted. Obviously, our colleague, Mr Baloža, who simply refuses to understand obvious things, needs a joke to explain the substance of the matter. I did not think of this joke, and I did not say it first about the secret votes from the tribunal. It was our highly respected colleague Ilma Čepāne, a very respected lawyer, a judge of the Constitutional Court, who said about the closed votes: “They are like a smile on a bus! Everyone is watching and saying, It wasn’t me!” So, honourable colleagues, it is time for us to decide that we will vote in open votes on the President of Latvia. And, Mr. Kirštein, if you build a house (and every good story is like a house) and if you make the wrong information in the basics, then that house doesn't work. And you didn't get that story because you put wrong information on my actions in 2015, voting in favour of Mr Levit. There's a simple tool on the Internet called Google. Look, it contained a lot of public information about how I voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U87	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for further progress of the draft decision “On the collective application of 11 212 Latvian citizens “On the open vote in the presidential elections””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, On August 22, our colleague Alexey Loskutow celebrated the anniversary. On September 1, Member Jūlija Stepanenko celebrated a round anniversary. And today's half-round anniversary is celebrated by Members Andrejs Clementyev and Roman Mežeckis. We extend sincere congratulations to them. (Applause) Name for the announcement to Member Romuald Crop.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U88	Dear Members of the Group of Members for Cooperation with Members of the Lithuanian Parliament, immediately I invite you to the Yellow Hall to receive information about participation in the Baltic Unit Day celebrations in Palanga on 23 September. Now.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U89	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U90	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Andrejs Judins, Rihards Kols, Romanas Mežeckis, Sergejs Potapkins, Zenta Tretjaka and Ilze Viņķele.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-07-PT12-435-U91	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
