ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on February 9, 2017. Before we start to examine the approved agenda, consider... Dear Members, I call for seats to be held in the Chamber. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The amendments tabled by the Bureau should therefore be considered before the Bureau's agenda can be examined. The Legal Commission is asking for changes to the agenda and to include in it the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” (No 128/Lp12) until 7 March 2017. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On Extension of the Term of Submission of Proposals to the Second Reading of the Draft Law “On Accounting” (No 798/Lp12) until 3 April 2017. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Foreign Affairs Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting to include a draft law on the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Protocol of the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Swiss Federal Council amending the Convention of the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Swiss Federal Council on the elimination of double taxation of income and capital taxes” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance" be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that he is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! This draft law, by its very nature, is understandable to all, logically, but I will only offer three more focused arguments. First. For the second month, the Minister of Welfare has been drawing the public gloomy scenes about the future of the social budget. One example is mentioned in an annotation of the draft law that you have been given. The freshest is as follows: yesterday, February 8, the Minister of “Latvijas Avīze” informed that in 2019 the social budget will be with a deficit of 25 million euros. I should like to thank the common sense that at least the social costs for people are not intended to be reduced, because they are already small and cannot be reduced further. We need to look for revenue, that is to say, where people and how they could still get this mandatory social contribution payment. We believe, however, that we should look at the spending of this social budget – where it is spent. And that is why we propose that the social budget is, by its very nature, designed to achieve social objectives. This money should not be used to finance the administration, i.e. to pay for the work of civil servants and employees in the public administration (both remuneration for work and employment placement and maintenance). You may say that these 15 million, which is indicated, is a small amount compared with the big budget and the surplus of the social budget, or the savings. Remember, however, the Latvian proverb that you should begin to store with a sandal, and then you can get to the lats! The other thing. Some think that within the big budget, perhaps 15 million is a trifle, but, as the welfare minister himself pointed out, if we could increase the non-contributory part of the pension by EUR 10 per pensioner, then seven million of the budget would be needed. In particular, each pensioner could be exempt from income tax for another 20 euro. And this amount, which would not have been taxed on the pensioner, would be close to what, according to international methodology, we count as the minimum amount of means of subsistence, or so-called basket. Let us strive to increase and not to tax the part without which a person cannot survive! The second argument. The social budget must be spent for truly social purposes, because people pay this compulsory social security contribution in this budget. If remuneration, remuneration is paid from this money, then personal income tax is deducted from this remuneration and this amount, therefore, social budget resources, goes to the state or municipal budget. If this money is paid for jobs, part of this money goes out as value added tax. In particular, money from the social budget is not spent for the purposes of the social budget, but for other purposes. Does such a reallocation involve the total amount of the social budget?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And finally, the third moment. State officials have recently spoken a lot about the fight against the shadow economy, about the fight against envelope wages, about the need to pay taxes, and we are well aware of what laws have been adopted in recent years to punish as much as possible for non-payment, to intervene as much as possible with repressive methods in people's lives in order to be able to monitor whether they are paying taxes. In such cases, we are using political methods to force people to pay tax. But when the public officials say that in the social budget, you know, there may be no money in the future, then how safe is this taxpayer, who hopes to get this pension in the future? Maybe then we will better create the belief of Latvian citizens that the social security system is sustainable and that in future people will also have adequate social insurance for the taxes they pay. Please support this draft law. Let us build together the national social budget revenue and spend less!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U3	Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Of course, I agree with everything the Minister for Welfare has said about the social budget recently and so on. Unfortunately, the draft law presented by colleagues does not help - it does not change anything, it does not affect anything. I would like to remind you that the adoption of the Law on State Social Insurance in 1998 laid down the basic principles for the administration of the services financed by the state special social insurance budget, noting at first sight that the source of funding from which the service is paid also ensures adequate administrative expenditure. The administrative expenditure of the state special social insurance budget in 2017 shall be 0.75 per cent of the total expenditure of this budget. Mr Curry said he had three arguments. I have five points to justify that it is impossible to really support this draft law. First. The fundamental principle of the state budget is undermined that the source of funding from which the service is financed ensures adequate administrative expenditure. Second. The general government budget does not have adequate resources to cover the administration costs and no specific alternative is proposed. Third. Without anticipating alternative sources of finance, risks - the threat of a state - are being created to ensure strategic public functions (I am talking about a state pension). At the same time, when looking at the proposals in the context of the sustainability of the state special social insurance budget, it should be concluded that overall, by shifting sources of financing from the state budget, the fiscal space of the state budget would not be increased. Moreover, the necessary reserve of the state special social insurance budget for such administrative expenditure would accumulate over 88 years to 1.5 billion, which overall does not address the situation of building insufficient provisioning for future costs. And the fifth point. Change of access to the administration of the national special social security system leads to serious and high costs for the reconstruction of the IT system. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Welfare cannot therefore support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U5	One Member has spoken for, one against. The matter shall be put to the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 2 and for - 44. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Maritime Code, tabled by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Vilnis Ķirisms on February 2, this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from the Member Vilnius Chers, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on February 2, this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė on 9 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Janina Kursīte-Pakules to grant her unpaid leave on 9 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to Member Janis Rucks from 21 February to 23 February this year. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Janis Ruck from 21 February to 23 February this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The leave has been granted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Anria Matīss from 14 to 16 March this year. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Anria Matīss from 14 to 16 March this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The leave has been granted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Janis Urbanovičs on 16 February this year. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Janis Urbanovičs on 16 February this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the leave has been granted. Examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. Second reading: The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U6	Good morning! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” (No 811/Lp12). For the second reading, the Legal Commission has received one editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U7	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U8	Consequently, all the proposals submitted have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U9	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law on the Maritime Code drawn up by the Commission be examined at first reading without re-examination by the responsible Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Voters’ Register”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has received three proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Voters’ Register” and has examined them. 1. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U12	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U13	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U14	And 3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U16	The Commission is asking to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on the Law on the Voters' Register! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U18	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has concluded work on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”. A total of four proposals were received for the third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U20	2. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission was supported. But perhaps a little clarification is needed. In view of the fact that the number of staff members and the financing of the sections of the family lists are determined by the municipality concerned, the Commission decided to remove the limit on the number of alternates in full by excluding the sentence that the section of the family lists may contain no more than two deputy heads of the section of the family lists. And there was a discussion on the second part, which excludes the sentence that no more than two vice-chairmen of the section of the head of the family lists may be present in the section, since the word ‘deputy’ may be interpreted to mean no more than one vice-chairman. The statement is worded as follows: ‘The official of the Birth Lists Division within the meaning of this Law is the Head of the Department of Birth Lists and the Deputy Head of the Department of Birth Lists.’ The Commission therefore draws attention to the fact that, in this case, the term ‘Deputy’ does not in any way restrict the number of vice-chairmen in the chapters of the birthsheets. So coming back to the proposal again. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U21	Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U22	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U24	And finally 4. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U26	On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Civil Status Act at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Credit Register Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U28	Hello, Chairman! Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined for third reading the draft law ‘Amendments to the Act on the Credit Register’. I informed you that no proposals had been received by the Commission for the third reading, and please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on the Credit Register Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Subsidized Electricity Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U30	Hello, colleagues! No proposals have been received for the third reading. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Subsidised Electricity Tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on the creation and use of the DNA national database”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U32	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! On the second reading, amendments to the law on the creation and use of the DNA national database, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, in fact only editorially clarified them. 1. is the proposal of Minister for the Interior Kozlovsky. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U33	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U34	The DNA database is not only needed by criminals, but also needs to address many other social problems. And so my proposal should reject both this and the next one for one reason. Both former prisoners and criminals are mortal, and I am very concerned about Latvian statistics that of the hundreds of unrecognised people, 300 to 400, who are delivered to the units of the Medical Expertise Centre of the State Court, 18 percent are not recognised at all. Unidentified persons with no known surname or name are buried every year. In 2013, these were 80, 2014. - 83, 2015 - 51. Last year's figures are similar. So we need to start going a normal, civilised path of development – to create a unified DNA database for all residents of Latvia. All the more so because of the circumstances of terrorism, the problems of recognition, the intensity of travel and so on. About 10-15 years ago, we had similar discussions about whether our fingerprints should be in biometric databases. Now it goes without saying that they are there. I therefore propose that these proposals be rejected and that the draft law be extended at third reading... see the question of creating a DNA database for all Latvians. That is my proposal. Thank you. And I beg you to reject them.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U35	Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U36	I understand, of course, Mr Schic's proposal, but I think we have to go back to what the draft law we are currently looking at. The draft law, which is being reviewed at second reading, is intended to ensure that DNA data is retained for criminals. And any proposals to support it, or not to support, that were made by the Commission before the second reading, cannot solve the question of establishing a common database of DNA for all citizens of the country. If there is such an idea, it can be implemented, but the proposals that we are talking about today are aimed at preventing human rights violations and not retaining DNA data for people who are clean before the Criminal Law, for whom a judgment has been passed or criminal proceedings have been terminated on a rehabilitation basis. I therefore call for support to be given to the proposal of the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U37	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U38	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovska! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U40	2. - a editorial proposal by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima specifying the meaning of the second paragraph of the article. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U42	3. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, aimed at establishing the ordinary procedure of entry into force of the law. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U44	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on the creation and use of the DNA national database! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U46	Thank you for supporting the bill. Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 14 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U47	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U48	Dear colleagues, For the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”” the Legal Commission has not received any proposal. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U49	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U50	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 14 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U51	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 February this year. On the agenda - first reading of the draft law on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U52	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document No 2974. Today we are considering the first reading of the draft law by which the Republic of Latvia ratifys the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada - what we know as CETA. This agreement was signed at the European Union-Canada Summit on 30 October 2016. For CETA to enter into force, it must be ratified by the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined CETA on 1 February and learned that it is the most modern trade agreement that the European Union has so far concluded with its trading partners. This agreement is modern and comprehensive; it also includes agreements on issues such as environmental protection and social standards. However, the committee's discussion focused on what Latvia and Latvian citizens could actually get from CETA. Among the benefits are, for example, the elimination of customs duties (99 per cent of tariff lines), which will make our goods more competitive on the Canadian market and increase our exports to Canada. Opening up the services market will create new opportunities for the provision of traditional services and also for fast-growing and promising sectors such as IT services. The access given by Canada to the public procurement market (in particular, at provincial and municipal level) is in fact a completely new and unprecedented market, which will also enable Latvian companies. The investment protection rules contained in the agreement will give more clarity to investors, while strengthening the position of the state. CETA will give our investors additional security when operating in Canada. In the Commission we have heard that CETA will not change, decrease or revoke European Union and Latvian standards in regulated areas, including food safety, product safety, consumer protection, health, environment, social or labour law issues. Imports from Canada must comply with all rules and regulations applicable to European Union products. On behalf of the Commission, I would also like to emphasise that the rapid ratification of CETA by Latvia would be a positive signal and a demonstration of partnership for Canada - especially in the context of geopolitical security. If Canada was not able to take a leading role in the creation of NATO multinational battalion battle groups in Latvia and send its soldiers to Latvia, now Latvia could not hesitate to ratify CETA. Although these are not absolutely and directly related issues, I believe that strengthening relations between our countries in different areas is very necessary. Canada is an important Latvian partner in both economic and geopolitical context. Latvian exports to Canada exceed imports, our trade balance is very positive. However, the overall volume of trade is not large. This shows that there is untapped export potential on the Canadian market. That is why the ratification of CETA and its entry into force as soon as possible are in accordance with Latvia's interests. In view of the benefits I mentioned from the Agreement between the European Union and Canada, taking into account the protection of the sensitive interests of the European Union and Latvia and taking into account the trade relations between Latvia and Canada, I call on the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support the ratification at first reading of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U53	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U54	Ladies and gentlemen, Since the start of negotiations on CETA in 2009, the political and professional statements of experts have repeatedly highlighted shortcomings and shortcomings in the text of the agreement and raised objections. Article 8.12 ‘Expropriation’ in Section D ‘Investment protection’ of Chapter 8 ‘Investments’ of the Agreement provides for the right to compensation for losses arising from the direct and indirect expropriation of foreign investor property. However, the investor protection mechanism, which provides for the right to recover losses from Member States for direct and indirect expropriation, can make Member State governments more cautious in adopting new social policies and legislation if they are potentially detrimental to foreign investors. I agree with those who believe that investor protection cannot go beyond the prohibition of discrimination against foreign investors. Article 23.4 of Chapter 21 ‘Trade and employment’ of the Agreement provides that the Parties undertake not to reduce legal standards to attract investors, nor to change the right of employees to conclude and implement collective agreements and to organise strikes. However, there is no effective mechanism for legal and economic sanctions - a mechanism that would ensure that labour law standards are not reduced, a mechanism for companies that do not comply with labour law standards within the framework of the agreement. The agreement will have a long-term impact on the sovereignty of Latvia, because even after the agreement is denounced and its operation is terminated, the rules for the protection of external investments will be in accordance with Article 30.9(2) of the Agreement, section 30, Final Provisions. ‘remains in force for a period of 20 years from the date of termination of this Agreement in respect of investments made before that date’. ( End quoted) It should be said that the presentations made by Members in the commissions on the consequences of implementing the agreement were rather lax. It was widely commented on what short-term benefits Latvian entrepreneurs would gain from the implementation of the agreement, but presentations did not contain an economic analysis of the possible impact of the agreement on the long-term competitiveness of the Latvian economy. Again, in the long term! I agree with those who stress that there is a lack of clarity about the economic benefits of Latvian entrepreneurs from the implementation of CETA rules, the benefits compared to the impact of CETA on the Latvian economy, public services, public procurement processes and quality employment. That is why, in order to assess the possible consequences of implementing the provisions of the agreement, at the previous sitting of the Saeima, I proposed to examine the agreement in three commissions - the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and the Commission on Legal Affairs - using all the possible intellectual capacity of the Saeima. The proposal did not receive support from the Saeima. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in its presentation, not without pride, stated (I quote): “The agreement defines clearly and precisely the investment protection standards, thus limiting the scope for a broad interpretation of [wide interpretation! State obligations vis-à-vis foreign investors.’ I read and did not believe in my own eyes. It turned out that by the agreement, the State deliberately sets limits to its sovereign rights vis-à-vis foreign investors and is also proud of it. In declaring its actions so innocent, openly and unilaterally, it is unlikely that it would be better to ‘slaughter’ this agreement. Meanwhile, the consequences and obvious risks of the implementation of the agreement have led to protests in Europe and objections by European trade unions. More than three million Europeans have signed a petition against CETA and its twin, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement. The European Trade Union Confederation rejected the inclusion of legal mechanisms to extend the access of foreign investors to arbitration that is not available to domestic investors. The Committee invited the governments of the Member States of the European Union not to sign the Agreement in its current form. The Canadian trade union association “Canada Labour Congress” supported the requirements of the European Trade Union Confederation. In turn, during the presentation of the agreement of the Saeima Committee on European Affairs on 10 October 2016 organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Free Trade Union of Latvia indicated that (I quote): “The employees’ organisations and civil society were not involved in negotiations on CETA. No information was provided on the progress of the CETA agreements and the conclusion of negotiations, no information events were organised, as well as discussions or other activities to clarify the public opinion.’ ( End quoted) The representative of the Free Trade Union of Latvia made a number of critical remarks about the agreement, which I quoted extensively today. However, three days later - 13 October - when the Latvian national position on the agreement was reviewed at the meeting of the European Commission, in the absence of a representative of LBAS, it was unduly announced that the Latvian Free Trade Union supported the national position, which was not true, rather the desired appeal about the existing one. The board of LBAS took a decision that “The Free Trade Union of Latvia does not support CETA in its current version as a controversial contract, which involves a dangerous investor protection mechanism and threatens the provision of quality public services”. Ladies and gentlemen! Taking into account all the reservations and explicitly included in the agreement in terms of state sovereign rights for strengthening the competitiveness of the Latvian economy in the long term, as well as the concerns expressed about restrictions on labour rights in the interests of foreign investors, I call for the draft law on an agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, not to support and vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U55	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U56	Hello, brothers and sisters! “ Ooo! Finally!” ) I did not take part in the vote in the committee. Why? Because our rapporteurs have not prepared a sufficiently serious analysis, the SWOT analysis: what we will then get and what we will lose in the economy. There were general texts by sector. But, forgive me, dear fellow speakers, our industries are made up of a couple of companies! So we must have a clear understanding of what our companies will gain and what our companies will lose when concluding this agreement. And the reporter's saying that there will be no loss is a clear lie. Each agreement creates its own benefits and causes its own losses. I listened to the rapporteur saying that there would be no loss. Why should we lie to humans? Next, I would like to say. Mrs Stepanenko, whom I very much respect and honour, spoke against this CETA at the previous parliamentary sitting. I didn't like salt... Why didn't you come to this committee session? I asked everyone what the damage would be. Nobody could tell me. You spoke so passionately against CETA, but you could not say why. I also do not like the fact that neither the Employers' Confederation of Latvia nor the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry considered it necessary to come to this committee meeting and express their views. Therefore, this Treaty is not important for the Latvian economy. Next thing I want to say. Looking aside, as a businessman, I think our country likes to pick up the contract after the contract. For what? What will we benefit from that? Has anyone asked this question? Are we just putting up a bunch of words that we've made such, such and such contracts? But what are we closing them for? I personally am in favour of a contract with Canada. I like Canada and its economy, but I want to understand clearly what this treaty will give us, Latvia, and what we will concretely gain, what the benefits and disadvantages of this agreement will be. And where do I think the problem lies, the common problem of all of us, the problem of all those who are talking at the moment? We do not understand the principles of good governance, and the worst thing is that even the honourable Members, many of whom listen, do not understand what that is - the principles of good governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U57	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U58	Highly honored Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will first answer Mr. Nanozol's reply. There is, of course, a roll of parliamentary order, and every Member is present at the sittings of the committees in which he is to take part, in which he is to take part. I will be very happy to attend the next meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission, and that will also have my own reason. Therefore, thank you, Mr Kalnozol, for your support, I understand, for the criticism of concluding this treaty. What I would like to say to you is that the biggest concern that I too have for this treaty is precisely: our economy will be destroyed at even greater proportions than we are seeing now. But while commenting on what we also heard today and what we hear in the public space about the substance of this treaty, it should be said that, although we hear that this treaty is mostly described as modern, I want to say as a lawyer that it really does not understand who once wanted to call it modern?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Wise people may say that running after fashion usually ends bad. Well, a person can also become funny if he tries to run after fashion. And it should be borne in mind that this contract is no longer theoretically fashionable, it has already gone out of fashion until it came to us. It's just gone out of fashion! Yeah, what's in fashion right now? We have our sovereignty in fashion, and this has also been demonstrated by the British Ambassador, who met with Members yesterday and told about Brexit. She said that people have expressed their will and that they want to set the agenda at the moment. And sovereignty and national interests have also now won in America. That means... Well, you know, if we really want to run after fashion and talk about fashion, then this globalisation treaty is not in our interest. Really funny - this treaty will affect our next generation in almost all areas, but we do not have time to explain to the people what will happen if we rush first to ratify the treaty, the possible impact of which on the Latvian economy has been examined in a global context much outdated - in 2011 (according to the data provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs). There are many things about which environmental organisations, consumers, producers and workers are concerned in Europe and Canada; I will not repeat this (we have heard it, our colleague has already said it), but I will add a few arguments: world environmental organisations, including Greenpeace, are calling for CETA to be rejected, because this treaty could not be compatible with the Paris Agreement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which we have just ratified in the Saeima. In my opinion, the road to losing sovereignty is now open to this Treaty, because we will gain a double leadership: the Brussels directives will be reviewed from the interests of Canada at the beginning, so that the corporations and the Canadian Government will have the right to determine what laws we will look at here in the Saeima. Moreover, there are still investor privileges and the protection of the internal market is not guaranteed, contrary to what we are seeing from the European Parliament's resolution of 8 July 2015 on recommendations on international trade, so that TTIP and future trade transactions (and thus CETA) must address the issue of investor responsibility, which has not been effectively incorporated so far. Also, the mechanism for protecting small and medium-sized enterprises is not considered if only access to justice, but could they really be interested in some kind of litigation? The investment court system is the response of the Commission to criticism of this investor dispute and protection mechanism. But when European experts analysed the new mechanism, they found that it could violate European Union legislation. These are arguments - one of the arguments! - 'to'. And what are the arguments about what we have heard in the public space? Security, Latvians living in Canada and friendly links are named. Plus the small benefits our entrepreneurs have shown by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which we should probably have more trust, because with this agreement it was active, even though it would close the debate while the treaty was not yet open to the public. In a number of European Union countries, before the ratification of CETA, national parliaments are expected to carry out studies on the impact of the agreement on the country's economy and the quality of life of its citizens. In Latvia, however, the first public discussion on CETA in society and the media environment started only in the autumn of this year, when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave a short general presentation on CETA on October 10th, 2016, following a proposal from members of the Saeima Committee on European Affairs. Members of the Saeima addressed Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs in autumn 2016 with a number of clarification questions about the legal and economic consequences of this agreement in Latvia. And on 10 November 2016 Members received a reply that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would assess if the Saeima carried out a study of its own resources on the possible impact of this agreement on the Latvian economy. I believe that every politician who has decided to support CETA in his conscious and responsible vote must have a full picture of the impact this agreement will have on the European Union's Member State, its business, its environment and consumer rights in the long term. Until 26 September 2014, all negotiations on CETA were secret and public participation in the negotiation of the Agreement was possible only from the date of the official publication of the Agreement. Secretity and lack of transparency in the context of CETA have created many problems among the citizens of the European Union. In Latvia, too, all possible actions around the discussion of this agreement were carried out during the previous parliamentary term, while the agreement was not yet publicly available. Thus, the responsibility for the lack of public debate and the lack of initiative for the protection of public interests rests with the decision-makers at the time the agreement was approved. Dear colleagues, Until a relevant study has been carried out on how the CETA agreement could affect the Latvian economy, I call for not supporting the ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U59	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U60	Sovereignty, security, independence – there are always additional concerns when it comes to it when it comes to Latvia. This seems hypocritical to me, especially in view of the fact that you still have a cooperation agreement with the United Russia and, despite the fact that the war in Eastern Ukraine has now actually resumed again, you are now sacredly talking about sovereignty, security and independence. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “What contract are you talking about now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And more! - directly related to CETA. If we look at international media, Russia's propaganda media, various satellite organisations across Europe, are the most active against CETA. Russia Today is the most active critic of CETA, reflecting the selective expert views on this agreement in various formats. I am also pleased that the CETA or the trade agreement between Canada and the European Union is the first to reach the Latvian Parliament. Why? Because this is about Canada, a country with a population of 36 million, which is equivalent in terms of population to Poland. It is not a huge United States with a huge economy; here we are talking about an equal country of European Union size. And with regard to the risks, I also received confirmation from the Foreign Affairs Commission that this treaty contains many reservations from Latvia - about the national interests that are important to us, which concern various areas. I think it is also worth mentioning the statement attached to the Treaty from the same Republic of Poland, which certainly cannot be regarded as... Well, a Western European country that is simply dull in favour of globalisation because of globalisation. The Republic of Poland underlines that, with regard to genetically modified organisms, it considers that CETA does not affect existing provisions in the European Union and guarantees the protection of the European Union and Polish markets from undesirable influx of genetically modified products. The Republic of Poland is convinced that CETA will benefit the broadest groups of Polish society and small and medium-sized enterprises by removing barriers and reducing the cost of trade. I do not share the hope that this trade agreement will now open up a huge trap, that any producer will be able to enter the Canadian market freely and now it will become a trading market for us. 1, but I really see a huge potential thanks to the CETA agreement, namely the high-tech and information technology sectors, which will open up a market with good purchasing power, which already has access to the United States market, precisely in these high-tech and information technology sectors. I, too, want to know more about this agreement, so I have called for detailed information to be prepared at the next Foreign Affairs Commission meeting on really viable companies, both from Latvia and Canada, which could benefit from the adoption of this agreement. At the same time, I would also like to point out that, in my opinion, there is no reason to fear that the whole economy will collapse now that we conclude a trade agreement with Canada. Rather, we need to look at our own parliament, talk about how we protect - already within the European Union - our small and medium-sized enterprises, where this protection is not enough. Somehow a story with an IKEA supermarket. Does the state really have to provide large aid procedures to a large producer? Perhaps, however, we should support small and medium-sized furniture manufacturers who produce these furniture in Latvia, who sell them? Due to the entry of one IKEA store, I think many jobs in different places in Latvia will be eliminated. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “This is what you will achieve now with CETA!” ) And this is also a question of Riga City Council, because in this case, municipalities can also influence what types of business are supported and which are not supported. My call is to support this treaty. I think the main short of this treaty is that we will succeed in creating a single market with... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) ... that we will succeed in creating a single market with North America, and it is Russia's worst nightmare that it will become small, outlying countries, economically insignificant, because all the main trade and development will take place in this particular European and North American region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U61	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U62	Dear colleagues, Good morning! There are situations in which the way something is done can seriously damage the result. And I have to say that this is the case. The legislative text that is being proposed to us for the ratification of the agreement is, of course, standardised. It is with such texts that practically all international treaties of Latvia are ratified. It has to be said that, like other international treaties, this international treaty is not an article examined by the Saeima by article, step by step, area by area, because the debate has taken place, the European Union has ratified, accepted, signed and we, the Saeima, no longer really have anything to mix in. The negotiation process's over, isn't it? Economic operators who are currently exporting their goods to Canada have not been heard and are not invited to do so, and they do not know what their obstacles, opinions and needs are. Similarly, those entrepreneurs who would like to export to Canada or plan to do so in the near future have not been invited and heard to understand how we can help them to realise their potential under this treaty. Because one thing is to remove the barriers that exist between one country and the other, while the other thing is to achieve and give Latvian entrepreneurs a real chance to get from removing these borders. Of course, you could think... usually, for draft laws, annotation is the one that shows everything... it must be visible how this draft law has been assessed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “It’s already in there!” ) Then I looked at an annotation of this particular draft law, and that is what I saw there. Reason for the need for the law. The law is necessary in order to approve this agreement. Not to promote the Latvian economy, not to support security, but something else, but the law is necessary to conclude the agreement. All right. Let's go. ‘ Institutions involved in project development’. One institution - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - is involved in the development of the project. Neither the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, nor even the Latvian Investment and Development Agency, which should take care of Latvia's investment and development. Only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let's go. ‘ This is the total capital requirement after risk mitigation, after the deduction of the risk mitigating effect of the undertaking's specific reinsurance contracts and special purpose vehicles relating to this peril, after the deduction of These “cooperation mechanism can promote” - not encourage, not by something that can be measured and understandable, but by promoting – “Latvia-Canada cooperation, including improving the export opportunities of Latvian businessmen to Canada, as well as attracting investment from Canada in Latvia”. You know, if you can, you probably can't. And that means we really don't know how it will be. Let's go. Reads – “Other information”: “Export of Latvian goods to Canada still accounts for less than one percent of Latvia’s total exports.” Well, it could probably be improved and promoted, but there is no one who will. ‘ Impact of the draft legislative act on the state budget and municipal budgets”: “The project does not concern this area.” Colleagues, I am not a budget specialist (Dep. I. Viņķelis: “That’s it!” ) and yet, if the Latvian economy develops, entrepreneurs export and flourish and gold, it should somehow also reflect the figures of the Latvian budget and it should be realised in some additional tax revenues. None of this can be seen in the record. Read the annotation further. ‘ Public participation and communication activities’ in relation to the project: ‘Not applicable’. There is no need for public participation, no need for discussion of communications. Public participation in project development – “Not applicable”. Colleagues, this means that, in the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Latvian society should not be involved in the negotiation of this agreement, and it is not essential that Latvian society, Latvian entrepreneurs and Latvian organisations have been consulted and informed about this agreement. Well, I must say, that is obviously the understanding of democracy by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs: the ministry and the minister know better. In addition, on its own, without the involvement of other institutions... To say that, there is nothing else here to ask and discuss! ‘ Institutions involved in the implementation of the project’. Well, if there was no need for involvement in the development, at least some institutions would have to be involved in the implementation. No, no! It appears that the implementation of the agreement will be coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone. Neither the Ministry of Economics, nor the Ministry of Defence, nor the Latvian Investment and Development Agency... Nobody who works directly with entrepreneurs, only and only - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! This means that no institution of public administration in Latvia is prepared and in fact does not intend to work on promoting - actually promoting! - I exported Latvian entrepreneurs to Canada; to agree with other countries on joint exports to help Latvian entrepreneurs find markets for their products in Canada. Nobody is ready to work on this. Let's take off the barriers, and get to the end as you can! It may already be that this contract is good and Latvia needs it. Such analysis has not been carried out, and scientifically sound information specifically relevant to the Latvian market is not available to us as Latvian decision-makers. There are colleagues here who are always looking for research and justification. Why are you not looking for it in this situation? Today you are ready to take this decision on the basis of speculation and emotions, not on the basis of analysis and evaluation. Colleagues! I believe that such a decision-making practice in the Latvian Parliament is unacceptable. This is a cat in a bag that you will support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U63	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U64	Good morning! Oh, let's go with' then... Good morning, Members! I supported the progress of this trade agreement last week, both requiring that CETA also be viewed within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, but on this issue you all voted in a friendly way against. It's been a week. In the Latvian media space in principle Ojāra Ērika Kalniņa... Eric, that's also like a stone in your field... I voted last week for progress so that you can explain to the people of Latvia the need for this CETA. In the Latvian media space, everything was explained; I learned where I was going, what I was doing, what I was doing, what I didn’t know so much (Dep. L. Žigāne: “Don’t get caught up with yourself!” )! - but I didn't know anything about CETA, Mr. Kalniņš, in the media space of Latvia. This means that very many other Latvians have not learned about CETA either. You've got a cough today, you've been stuck... There are “Altum” in Latvia, and (Dep. A.Lejiņš: “They support!” ) Latvian Investment and Development Agency (LIAA), while Canada has an export bank. Perhaps many do not know this: there is indeed an export bank in Canada with a budget of $43 billion. And now think - CETA will be accepted... Of course, it will be accepted, because the majority has already supported these things here... And Oyars Eriks Kalniņš was a naughty... Next time, let us say a few years later, he will no longer buy Latvian-made anti-cloppy syrup, he will buy Canada-made anti-cloppy syrup, because we will not have a lobby law, and there will be no rest. A. Leiiņš: “There is! Read it!’ )... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) 43 billion...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U65	Mr. Neighbours, I am reprimanding you. According to the parliamentary order roll, a reference to the health status of the opponent is not acceptable. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “The doctor will be sent to the family doctor!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U66	(Clepo) Okey, I'm sorry, I'm sick! I'm gonna buy Canadian syrup. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Go to bed!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U67	Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U68	I'm going to buy Canadian syrup because it's going to be dehusked here from all sides, and then... I will not have an opportunity in Latvia for Latvian syrups (Clepo.) buy, it will not be available in the pharmacy because will be dehumidified syrup from Canada. And so it will not just be with cough syrups. That's how it's gonna be with small business... There has not been a public discussion in the media space. Ojar Erik Kalnin, you should go and explain, because you're now the only one from the Foreign Affairs Commission who's this here, so to say, well... a senior positionr. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is not involved in this case. Thus, the public is concerned about the presence of all its genetically modified food and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Leanny's intermediate call sign.) Not already explained. The fact that I am here now, Mr. Leiens, you say - and I am not talking to you! - about that...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U69	Mr. Neighbours! Debate without talking to the hall! You're constantly in violation of...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U70	Maybe you're going to have a debate in my place, okay?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U71	So, the debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U72	That means... Well...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U73	Do you want to end the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U74	I'm sorry! Well, Mrs. Moore, just a little respect, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U75	So, Mr. Neighbours, will you continue the debate in line with the Rule of Procedure? Or I'll turn the microphone off for you!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U76	I am continuing the debate. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U77	Thank you. Then continue the debate. ( Interface: “Start from the beginning! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U78	No, pauses are a good thing. Consequently, I cannot now support the move forward of this trade agreement to second reading, because you have simply not explained the matter. Your task was to explain, not simply to vote here: yes, let's go. The fact that Mr. Dombrava is talking here about having some position in Russia or the Kremlin there, sorry... You can also interpret it, or not, if you want so much all of it... security and so on. But on the other hand, where then remains this simple explanation of the cough syrup? The most basic thing... And we can call such things more and more and more and more. And who will defend these interests? Nobody! And I'll get you in here part of those 43 billion... will be a lobby, a Canadian corporate lobby here in Latvia. And then what will you say? Nothing, come on! I will therefore not support this CETA at the moment, because there is no clear message that previous speakers have also said. I don't want to go again.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U79	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U80	Dear colleagues, Free trade agreements are favourable if they are concluded between countries with a similar level of economic development, and then implementation of the agreement means, to a large extent, the merger of markets. In the event that an agreement is concluded between a country where a host animal in savannahs and a country producing iPhones, electric trains and polymers, the free trade agreement is a conquering of the export market. And let us not give ourselves any illusions here! The CETA Agreement will certainly benefit Germany, the Netherlands, Austria or Sweden, where there is strong production and high economic competitiveness. For Latvia, whose gross domestic product per capita is one of the smallest in the European Union, where social inequalities are highest in the European Union and around 13 percent of Latvians now live in economic emigration abroad, this agreement will delay the development of internal production in the long term. I repeat: not next year, when some companies rejoice and rejoice because they will have new opportunities to do something in Canada or to take part in public tenders in that country... I am talking about long-term economic development. There can't be any wonders here! It's not about Canada and more! - on the European Union. This is about the interest of multinational corporations in taking up markets and protecting their assets. Consequently, this agreement is not, in fact, a trade agreement. This is an investment agreement, an investment protection agreement. What investments can be made by Latvia in Canada now, and what can be done by Canada in the Republic of Latvia? Think about it! Latvia is not yet well prepared to participate in such games at all. Certainly for Germany, for our good colleagues, for our partners in the European Union, I repeat once again: such an agreement will certainly be beneficial. In fact, this treaty promises only one fate for Latvia: to remain and to be the European Union's shelter in the future. If we really want to be independent and economically competitive, we must not take care of protecting the interests of external investors, but create our own production facilities. There is a need to try step by step, to increase our competitiveness, rather than promise that a good fork will bring us happiness in the future. Therefore, this agreement, I say again, is not in Latvia's interest. That is what I wanted to say to you in my first speech, and I say it now in my second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U81	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U82	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In this debate on the European Union-Canada Free Trade Agreement (CETA), we have often seen a confusion in shape and content. Of course, when Mr. Kaimiņš spoke out of this platform, he went out of the shape and content of the confused frames, and was only interested in himself, but it is not the first time that Mr. Kaimiņš had something like that. Mrs Betes, you also took a look at the form and analysed the annotation in a very detailed way, ignoring the fact that the Saeima has spoken about CETA a long time ago - since 2009. And in this respect, I could say that there are lies, there are big lies and there are alternative facts for Mrs Stepanenko. Mrs Stepanenko, the Saeima has been working with CETA since 2009, and the whole issue has been addressed at eight meetings of the Committee on European Affairs. The proceedings of the European Affairs Commission shall be open to the public. All partners can participate in these meetings, and you know very well that this cooperation is active. CETA has been published since September 2014, and everyone with interest has had an opportunity to get acquainted with this agreement. Finally, of course, we called for an information seminar, which we organised for Members of the Committee on European Affairs who had not worked in the previous Saeima. Of course, all Members of the Committee on European Affairs were invited. That's about alternative facts. With regard to what Mr Nunozol said. Mr. Nunozole showed love for Canada, but he said that he did not know anything about this treaty. Just because Mr. Nanozol was not in the previous Saeima. This does not mean that we have not been long on this issue, having spoken much and in detail at the eight meetings of the Committee on European Affairs in general. That's about the form, about the processes that we like to sit down and stick to, also using facts that are not true. But if we talk about content, I think Mr. Pimenova's second speech was excellent, showing that we really want to be afraid. We very much want to keep our rights to our little fears that large, developed Canada will invade our country with its products and collapsed. Dear colleagues, Little and Big Fears and Our Fight for Our Right to Fear (Dep. I. Pimenov: “What are you talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Doesn’t have to do with Canada!” ) - that is not a good strategy for the future. Colleagues! In Latvia, the vast majority are small and medium-sized enterprises. These companies are raging after innovation. Currently, small and medium-sized enterprises in Latvia only reach 34 percent of the European Union's total productivity. These companies need new markets, they need modern markets where they can sell their goods. The 35 million Canadian company in terms of exports is an excellent opportunity for our small businesses, which generate high value-added products. Dear colleagues, This agreement gives us the opportunity - it gives our small businesses the opportunity to sell their quality niche products in a modern, developed society. Let us therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U83	Name to Member Janis Dombrava, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U84	Answering speakers... I really find it strange to hear these arguments that, depending on where the animals are grazing, we are cooperating with those countries or not. But according to this logic, we cannot cooperate with Finland, because there are northern reindeer growing there, and we cannot cooperate with Spain, because there are some other climatic conditions... In this case, again and again, we are not talking about a country with a population of many hundred million people. We are talking about a relatively small Nordic country with a large, wide area. And it really seems interesting to me that I do not hear from Mr Pimenova himself or from other colleagues why we were allowed to sign a free trade agreement with South Korea, but we cannot sign with Canada. You probably have in your pockets or on the tables now standing in Korea-made phones... probably also Mr Ribakow, who is on the phone right now. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Orlovs: “He talks about the work!” ) And in that case what did we see? This free trade agreement was adopted in 2011, and Latvian goods exports grew four times compared to 2011 levels - four times! - balancing our trade balance. If it was negative before, it became positive after the conclusion of this agreement. We now have a neutral positive balance with Canada. I suspect that, as a result of this agreement, especially with regard to those potential companies that could operate on the Canadian market and that are already active but could expand their activities, both wood-processing companies and IT companies, that they are likely to increase precisely the exports of our goods and products. And here we don't need to, as Mr. Pimenova said, look at it very much from the country and say that now you will go inside that market or you won't go in. Those times are over. Every company chooses which market is interested in it. We only give him an opportunity to operate in this market. In response to Mr. Kaimiņš, I may not be long, but I don't know if we... I agree that it would be good to look at every argument that Latvia will gain, or perhaps lose, from the conclusion of this trade agreement here, too, from the parliamentary tribunal. However, these materials about what Latvia is getting, what it loses and what is in this treaty are available electronically, they have been available to the European Affairs Commission, the Foreign Affairs Commission, and I think if you really are interested in this issue and you want to study it, and I hope that it is, you have the opportunity either to find it on the Internet or to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I think they will send it even within one day in a very simple language, which is then in this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U85	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U86	Dear colleagues, I think this is the first exception when I cannot agree with my colleague Pimenov. Because all that talk about defending sovereignty and so on... Colleagues, any bilateral and multilateral treaty is a voluntary opt-out of some sovereignty. Because it is beneficial. And we do it all the time. With regard to the arguments. I would simply recommend to Mr Dombravas that we watch channels such as Russia Today less, because it is harmful to health and can develop paranoia, indeed. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Depp. I. Pastor: “It’s good!” ) As regards Brexit and Trumps and all these things, which are now fashionable, to take care of sovereignty. Colleagues, the fact that Britain, as a rich country, wants to pursue a protectionist policy, to defend its market, does not necessarily mean that we also need to follow this example. I think that neither Brexit nor Trumpis are beneficial to us because we are interested in integrating into the world market. Protectionist policy is not right for us, and there I really agree with my colleague, Pimenov, that in fact it is an investment agreement and there are no alternatives here. We do not have internal resources to raise funds. Of course, there may be concerns about the dispute settlement mechanism. I am not excited about it either, but it is a fee for attracting investment. Indeed, it was extremely difficult to reconcile this agreement, it continued for several years, and I cannot accept these arguments that you see, there was no public discussion there, and so on. Colleagues, everyone interested in information was available at all stages of all these years. If you were just not interested in it, you didn't want to go into it and you just want to argue that your opinion was not taken into account, well, sorry, too late! For all the Member States of the European Union and Canada will not wait for a single Member, Kalnozols or Kaimiņš, to study and express their views. Everything has to be done in time, however. Other serious arguments against the text of the Treaty than their drafting mechanism, I did not, to be honest, hear. And the last one. Colleagues! All the arguments we heard against CETA today have already been heard years ago. The same applies to the European Union in absolute terms. And to a much greater extent! Because indeed, and there I agree with Mr Dombrava, the Canadian economy is not at all strong enough to intervene very seriously in the Latvian market. Not at all! The impact of the future Member States of the European Union is much more serious. So if you really take over your concerns about sovereignty and want to pursue a protectionist policy, then talk strategically, then start leaving the European Union and let us, let's say, the Belarusian model, really protectionism, and let us wait for our entrepreneurs to develop into a sink and be able to compete with the world's strong investors. But this is a completely different model. Because, however, we have chosen the European Union strategically, we have chosen integration into the world market, which in itself is a very serious safeguard. And if you want to change it, there's nothing to do with stuff like CETA, sorry, then offer strategic changes. I think we should vote in favour. This agreement is necessary and will contribute to Latvia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U87	Honourable Members! Members Smilten, Gaidis Berzins, Barča, Sergeant and Agešin ask for the session to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? “ That’s right, ” he said. A very good idea!” ) There are no objections. So let's go... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “There is! There are objections!’ ) Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: Yes! ) The vote must therefore be taken. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The sitting of the Saeima shall be held without interruption by a majority of the votes cast. We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U88	Dear colleagues, Mrs Chigan, I think it is a stress, because she is trying to insult me with false information, but it is not really so. I said today from this platform that the public debate could only start when the CETA Treaty was made public, and that was the case in September 2014. What Mrs Chigane and her colleagues, who have already been members of the long-standing Saeima, have done in the 11th Saeima and in other Saeima, of course, cannot, in this case, oblige me to trust what she has discussed before in the European Commission for Affairs. Therefore, to be honest, a real discussion on this agreement has only begun today, unfortunately without the presence of experts. I'm so sorry. But in response to Mr Dombrava's concerns about... not concerns, but real observations about what Poland, for example, has added to this agreement. Yes, Latvia has only added that which does not affect Latvia's specific interests in the field of production protection. The fact that we will not sell the agricultural land to the Canadians will in no way save us from the same products that will come from Canada. Poland has tried simply to explain in this mechanism what it understands that genetically modified organisms are not provided for in this Treaty, because this Treaty really has a very, very scattered term, these rules are very two-fold translated, because bilateral cooperation in the field of bio-engineering can be translated in different ways. States shall therefore, for fear, formulate these explanations in order to ensure that genetically modified organisms may flow with the conclusion of this Treaty. And when it comes to public consultation too... Mrs Chigan, I really did not want to talk to you about this today, we have already talked about it once in the Committee on European Affairs, that unfortunately, those non-governmental organisations that had already been sceptical about international trade once will no longer be called upon. In particular, I can mention to you that the meeting of the Saeima's Committee on European Affairs on 13 October, which confirmed the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, did not call for an organisation such as the Green Freedom, which had been sceptical about the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement between the US and the European Union, and also the Farmers' Saeima, because I called for it myself. Speaking of Mr Dombrava's concerns about Russia... Throw it away, please, Russia from your head once. Our world is far wider than you think. In other European countries that do not border Russia, there are really very wide discussions and people collect signatures, go on the streets and talk about this treaty. We all live in fear because someone who will say something against this treaty will immediately be called a Russian agent. How could you "sell" this treaty to a nation if we had no "dreadful" Russia next to us? I'd like to see that. And finally, I will just read from the points of view of the groups, what Mr Leeniņa thinks about this Treaty: 'Canada is important to us, the transatlantic Treaty between the European Union and Canada is important, because Canadian soldiers are coming to us now, we are strengthening our ties with North America, with the Canadians, they will protect us, they will help protect us, and we hope that we will be the first country in the European Union to ratify this Treaty. And why is this important? Because it will give us very much publicity in Canada, because we will be the first country to do so. In this way, we can also find an advantage and an advantage for ourselves among the Canadian people." The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) I have nothing more to say, honourable colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U89	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U90	Hello, colleagues! Listening to this debate, I cannot join Mrs. Chigan, who is also admiring this way of trying... Some are trying to find arguments against this treaty, i.e. they use subconscious instruments such as intimidation of people, just as now in Riga Ušakovs is supporting all his campaign: “Imagine what will be: you will be deprived of something and so on... “ I think that is very close to the current Russian narrative about a failed country: coming here, destroying something, taking away. I think we should look very carefully at this. Mr Pimenova spoke of gross domestic product. He mentioned that gross domestic product in Latvia (and apparently through capital) is one of the lowest in the European Union and that CETA will thirsten the development of internal production. But, Mr. Pimenova, what is the composition of gross domestic product? It is internal consumption, it is investment, it is government expenditure and the balance of exports and imports. How can we obtain investment and develop our exports if we close our economies, we start trading only with each other, just as in the "extreme years", selling one and the same goods to each other more and more expensively. We can only do this if we conclude international agreements and go on the export markets, and in this way we get the opportunity to attract investment and export our products, thereby also increasing productivity. And it seems to me, in such a broader way... We all see that these things are happening right now, so... attempts to dismantle the Western world at all, as well as isolated countries, and isolation means “to make the world weak”. Split, make countries weaker, and this also applies to Latvia. And trade links are those that strengthen cooperation, promote mutual trade and also provide the basis for defending and guaranteeing security for such values as trade and so on. I therefore call for support for this agreement. ( The box “Let’s Support! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U91	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U92	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Mr Dombrava has mentioned here that SASCAN is talking about security, and this is a cause for concern to him. Dombravas, sir! When representatives of the coalition party from the parliamentary tribunal start to discuss security, I am laughing, to be honest. Because then I suddenly remember who has led our country to a security clown. Was it not Minister of Defence Kristovskis? Former member of the LNNK and then member of the Unity. Wasn't it Artie Pabrik? Was it not the present Minister of Foreign Affairs (Dep. E.Smilten: “What connection?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) who, as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, distributed the money to the right, to the left, not to the armed forces, Mr Smilten, was it not the Minister of the Interior Linda Murniece, who abolished the only Police Academy? ( Internouncing call.) And then it's a question: all these years (interfaces.) your party and political group have also been in government. How did you vote? How did you support it? Why, then, did you not support my proposals to allocate two percent to the defence budget in 2011, 2012? Why have you not asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Why have we not fulfilled the terms of the treaty with NATO, which we committed to fulfilling when we entered into, that there should already have been two percent in 2013? Why? Why do you vote against granting investment to national security authorities, border guards and new technologies? That's what it's about. Concretely relevant to the draft law. It's nothing. As always, an absolute brother has come from the Cabinet. I am not talking about the treaty in this case, but about the bill, and again I have to remember images such as the former Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Wicke-Spolitis and the Minister of Defence Artis Pabriks. Then when we discussed in the Commission a draft law from the state budget package on the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence, basic naive questions were asked: what is the budget? Why will it be spent? What are the objectives? What's the state? What is it going to do? The minutes of the committee meetings could be looked at: officials were not able to answer any of the questions. But we passed the law. In this case, too, the attitude of the officials is beyond every criticism. But, colleagues from the coalition, you have the right to invite any minister to group meetings. Only they do not even visit their political groups at all. We have long forgotten who is the employer of our government. And for no reason do we want to ask what the government is doing (this is more relevant to the coalition). Why is there no Foreign Minister to discuss such an important issue today, there is no Parliamentary Secretary... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri: “Ir!” ) Where? I don't see him. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “She doesn’t sit in! She's there!” ) Maybe he can sit in another place, I won't tell you which... Are the concerns of Mr Pimenova and Mrs Stepanenko, my colleagues, justified? Definitely. But in this case, we must talk more about the inaction of officials, and we must read, unfortunately, the text of the treaty itself. If we are talking about our economy, then in the European Union we can no longer find economies like Latvia. Two weeks ago, the Request Commission was invited and a very good speech was given by the Minister for Economics, Mr Asheraden, who told us why investment in Latvia is decreasing. One of the issues was geopolitical politics, then there was tax policy, there was a whole series of... I was forced to ask Mr Asheraden a question: "Listen, you are a representative of the opposition or a representative of the government? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “What is this?” ) Should all these issues not be discussed in the Cabinet of Ministers and a decision should be taken on what concerns justice, the economy, geopoliticals?’ But, Mr Dombrava, when we talk about the investments that we can expect if we tell all potential investors from morning to evening: you know, immediately, the Russians will come. There must be an absolute idiot for investing in a country where there is a fragile, precarious situation. And what else do I... Let's not say, shock, it's better to say, cat. Talking about Canada's contingent and about this battalion, which will be deployed here. Colleagues, why do we deceive ourselves and society on an elemental issue? These 1300 people arrive in the territory of Latvia for the duration of their training. NATO training time. After completing their training, they will go home. But there are a number of other homework that we should do and do. I call for support for this treaty. I hope that the Foreign Affairs Commission will invite the responsible officials once again to its meeting and there will be an opportunity to ask all the questions that are worrying to Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U93	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U94	Presidium! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! I did not really want to speak, but from this debate I began to understand that we have Members who do not really understand what representative democracy is. Do we really have to put an end to all the commissions and all the sittings here from Monday to Friday at midnight, and everyone will be debating here at the Saeima sitting? It's gonna be like... last time we saw it in Athens three thousand years ago. Then they gathered the men on the city square, and depending on the ability of the speaker... The raised sword meant “yes”, and otherwise – “no”. It does not work representative democracy. But, well, I was quoted. I invite you to take this opportunity to read all of my articles on the website that I have said to Latvian Radio, and then you will be able to see what I have really said. Of course, this is extremely important: to strengthen ties with Canada, it is simply logical. You think we do not defend our interests. I call on the whole text to read what the reservations to the European Union are, what the reservations to Latvia are specifically. I won't mention them all, but they are. But the best thing that appeared in the social media about swine fever... Guess what is responsible for swine fever in Latvia? Yes, of course, CETA, because we will sign it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Who said that?” ) That was Mrs Stepanenko, a honourable Member. What can be done? I think so, how do the Canadians, who want this treaty and have fought for it with us for 10 or 12 years, and finally we have found the right components that are good for them and what is good for us, and then they will be hired by the Eskimos Shamans who will now spread swine fever in Latvia? But why don't they spread their swine fever in Belarus? Swine fever is actually present there, and swine fever is also present in Russia and everywhere in Europe. But it shows their level, it shows the level of opposition. The plague of pigs is in Latvia because it is CETA! Well, I'm sorry! Well, where we are!Is that so? Let us read the text, let us be reasonable, let us trust our European Commission! Let us trust our representatives in Brussels, trust our ministers! Well, what's going on here, drift! It's been... I call for support for the draft law and for this pointless debate to end.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U95	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U96	Hello, dear colleagues! I would very much like us to be adults, however, and an adult is separated from a child by the fact that he makes wise decisions and is able to understand the reasoning before making decisions. I find it regrettable if the argument for and against remains only at such a level of fear. If you think otherwise, you're the bad guy right away, you're the right person. I think that this decision to ratify the agreement is a very responsible decision. I was very keen to see the government's analysis along with this agreement - what the agreement means for Latvia, for the Latvian economy, for the welfare of Latvian society, for the environment, for health and so on - but there is no such analysis. Should You Fear Such an Analysis? Why not? Probably because Latvia still has not clearly defined interests, which is what we stand for most, which is what we protect most in the case of Latvia. Why will the heart of Latvia not vote in favour of this agreement today? Not because we are opposed to the idea, we are in favour of the Saeima discussing the substance, so that in the Saeima this is the first case when the newly created Analytical Service carries out a comprehensive analysis of what this treaty means for Latvia. And that is why we, as several Members, signed a letter to the Foreign Affairs Commission today calling for this... In its replies to our questions previously addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs also called for this to be done. He said that such an analysis had not been carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and called on the Saeima to carry out such a comprehensive analysis. Then let us act as such a very responsible legislator before pressing the button “for” or “for”. Should anyone be condemned for being 'no' just because I am 'for'? Let's do an analysis, let's go into the essence of the matter, maybe then we'll be 100% "for" if we see the huge benefits this agreement brings to Latvia. But until I see what it means for my country, what it means for the society living here, I can never vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U97	Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U98	Madam President, Dear Members! Honourable Members! Our task is to increase security and prosperity of Latvia. These are two criteria through which I look at every issue on our agenda. And CETA meets both of these criteria to the highest extent: strengthening security and prosperity of Latvia. I will be happy and happy to give you a number of arguments that are in favour of the smooth ratification of CETA here in the Latvian Saeima. Why do we need a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, or what do we call it CETA? First, they are economic considerations and economic benefits. Latvia has a positive trade balance with Canada, our exports are already twice as high as imports, and Canada is a notable market for our entrepreneurs. CETA will certainly make it easier for our businesses to access this market and will contribute to an even greater volume of exports. As Mr Kalniņš said earlier, the most important benefit of CETA is 99 percent of the customs duties abolished, which will make our goods more competitive on the Canadian market and increase our exports to Canada. The opening up of the Canadian services market will also provide new opportunities for the provision of traditional services, as well as for fast-growing and promising sectors such as IT services. Access to the Canadian public procurement market, which is €32 billion a year, including at the level of provinces and municipalities that will open up to our entrepreneurs, is actually new and has not been a market and new opportunities for Latvian companies. The most up-to-date investment protection rules included will provide more clarity to investors, while strengthening the position of the state as well. CETA will give our investors additional security when operating in Canada. The rules on the recognition of professional qualifications will give more opportunities to our service providers in the regulated professions and the recognition of conformity assessment documents will remove the need for recertification of products in Canada. Secondly. A slightly more global objective. CETA approval will confirm that the European Union remains an active player in the global economy. The world is fighting for advantages in international trade. Therefore, the task of the European Union and Latvia is to respond proactively to trade trends by creating modern, favourable trade conditions for European producers and exporters. And in this respect, the CETA Agreement is a step towards new international trade rules in line with the interests and values of Europe and Canada. And, honourable Members, allow me to answer a number of questions and comments in this debate. Firstly, both Mr Pimenova and Mrs Stepanenko drew attention to the investment protection system. The CETA rules for investment protection are more modern and national-friendly than any other bilateral agreement between the European Union and Latvia. CETA defines investment protection standards clearly and precisely. Mr Pimenova, CETA strengthens the right of States to regulate matters in the public interest, including in the areas of health, safety, consumer protection, the environment and others. CETA's contribution is to the dispute settlement court, which is a permanent instance with appeal possibilities. This innovation is a completely opposite approach to the bilateral investment protection agreement between Latvia and Canada so far, where each dispute could benefit from specially formed arbitration courts and such decisions could not be appealed against. However, it has to be said that during the 22 years since the investment protection of Latvia and Canada was regulated by these bilateral agreements, there has been no investment dispute with companies registered in Canada. Our cooperation has been very positive. But CETA will replace this bilateral investment agreement and give even greater guarantees for future needs. Furthermore, by signing CETA, the EU and Canada undertook to work towards a multilateral investment court. Work has already started and the first discussions have taken place (in Geneva last December and this year in Davos) to identify other countries interested in the process. And the aim of such proposals is to replace the systems contained in both CETA and other bilateral investment treaties with time. CETA provides for the establishment of a permanent investment court. It would appoint 15 independent judges, including five from the European Union, five from Canada and five from third countries. The Treaty also lays down clear requirements for the qualification of judges, and arbitrators will have to comply with the Code of Conduct. An appeal body is also foreseen, which will be fully maintained by the parties to the agreement. Canada and the European Union together will decide on the candidacy of judges. In the European Union, the approval of candidates will take place in the Council of the European Union, as will the approval of the judges of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. This means that our government will take part in these decisions. And this is a significant improvement, in contrast to previous practice, where investment protection agreements provide for the use of arbitration courts set up specifically for a particular dispute. The new system will be better. I would also like to say thank you at this point, to Mr Cilevič, who really showed an understanding and a fair approach to these issues, pointing to a number of false statements made earlier by other Members. Mrs Stepanenko and Mrs Betes talked about how much or little Parliament has been involved in the work that has been done on this Treaty so far. It has to be said that both in 2015, 2016 and 2017 the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada was mentioned in the annual report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and European Union matters. As CETA negotiations take place, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a number of information reports on the national position on trade issues in support of the continuation of CETA negotiations. Moreover, these information reports were reviewed at the sittings of the Saeima Committee on European Affairs on 25 May 2012, 28 November 2012, 12 June 2013, 11 May 2016 and 13 October 2016. The Saeima has been involved throughout this process, and thank you to Mrs Chiganne, who stressed this. Moreover, in October last year, a meeting took place between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Members of the Committee on European Affairs with experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the content of the CETA agreement, to which all the Members concerned were invited to participate freely, and I remember that Mrs Silverba was also present, although she does not work, say one of these commissions. As regards the availability of the CETA Agreement texts, I would like to point out that these negotiations were launched in May 2009 and concluded on 13 October 2013. The text of the Agreement has been publicly available to all since September 2014. On 29 February last year, the final version of a legally revised contract was made public. Information about this agreement, the text itself and the documents accompanying it are available on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for every interested person, Member and Latvian citizen. Mr Pimenova addressed the issues of public involvement and trade union concerns. Let me make a few points. Trade unions have mentioned that the contract should not contain an investor dispute settlement clause. But, as I said, these provisions for investment protection are more modern and more country-friendly than any other agreement concluded between the European Union and Latvia. We believe that the rules are indeed in Latvia's interest. There has been a question of excluding public services from the Treaty. And here, too, it must be said that CETA gives concrete answers. CETA does not prevent the State from defining and regulating the provision of services in the public interest, including in areas such as public health and education, social services, housing and water supply. There has also been a discussion on public procurement and regulatory action. CETA also stresses the right of the State to retain control and to establish clear procedures. The Union for Trade Unions has said that an important chapter on sustainable development should be included in the Treaty. But CETA includes sections on sustainable development, labour law, and environmental issues (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) , and all these issues are also clarified in the Joint Interpretation Instrument or Declaration on CETA, including specific references to the text of the CETA Agreement, and are also available to all. Mrs Betes analysed the annotation of the bill. I think you are very well aware, as a lawyer, of the difference between a treaty which is comprehensive and broad and which has been subject to very many discussions, and this relatively short text of the bill, which, in four points, expresses its support for ratification of the treaty. This is an important distinctive nuance: at what point we are talking about this short law, and at which - about the substance of the treaty itself. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Kalnozol also asked a week ago about the damage that this agreement would cause. What I gave to, I think, is a very clear answer. Latvian entrepreneurs will lose the need to pay high import duties to sell their goods in Canada, as well as additional regulatory barriers and bureaucratic obstacles. Really. This will improve the competitiveness of our businesses in the Canadian market. You asked about business participation in the Foreign Affairs Commission. I think they have a lot of work to do. Neither the Employers' Confederation of Latvia nor the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia may be obliged to be present at every meeting in which Mr. They appreciate when it is necessary to participate. We are in close contact with these business organisations to work and discuss, and are already looking for ways to quickly bring our entrepreneurs into this new market. And you know, I have agreed with these organisations, and the Foreign Affairs Commission has already confirmed its participation at the moment, both the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia and the Association of Information and Communication Technologies of Latvia. Entrepreneurs and business organisations will be present to reaffirm their interest in the conclusion of this agreement. Mrs Stepanenko! Let me say: true, fashion and modern are not the same; but at the same time I will remind you: there is no dispute about fashion and taste. And your assertions were often too false this time, or were already crossing really some boundaries. You mentioned that the Canadian Government and corporations will have the right to determine what issues the Saeima will be looking at in the future. Isn't it really absurd? Isn't that a clumsy deception? Are you aware that there are already 24 free trade agreements between the European Union and other countries, including, for example, South Korea, where our trade volumes and exports have increased significantly. Have you, honourable Members, felt that South Korean corporations are setting your agenda? It is not, and it will not be, and it really does not need to spread absolute errors. The honourable Members and any Latvian citizen shall have free access to the very detailed and detailed answers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the questions asked by Mrs Stepanenko and a number of other Members. And letters from this Ministry of Foreign Affairs are available in materials that are available on the Saeima's website at the meeting of 20 October 2016 on questions and answers and at the meeting of 10 November 2016. I invite everyone interested to meet you. Indeed, we have provided detailed information on impacts, on discussions, on involvement and on future risks. Yes, we have also assessed the possible risks associated with the conclusion of this agreement, and the European Commission's final report on trade sustainability identifies a number of Canada's strong export sectors where the immediate opening up of the market could pose risks to European producers. And such sectors are, for example, beef, pigmeat, and fishery products. Therefore, CETA also includes provisions to mitigate these risks. A quota of 45.8 thousand tonnes per year is set for beef and 75 thousand tonnes per year for pigmeat. Quota also fixed for frozen cod. Imports of more than the quota quantities allocated will be subject to the existing customs duties. Other Canadian export sectors, such as mining and wood industry, are already low or even non-existent in the European Union's customs tariffs and will therefore not pose any competitive risks. Madam President, can I combine the speaking time by adding a few more minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “No!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U99	Do Members have objections? ( Subtotal: “We’re all clear! ” ) Consequently, Members have reservations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “We are voting!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the extension of the speaking time for the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica for five minutes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So you can continue. Please! ( The utterances, “This sitting will not be over. ”) ; “No quorum!” ) Hence the need to vote again. Please call me! We will be voting on granting additional speaking time to Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševics, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, please, you can continue the speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U100	Thank you. You see, what is the situation where Members ask a lot of questions, but are these answers really interested in the questioners, especially the opposition Members? Let me just give you a few sentences. The Treaty also includes specific reservations on issues of specific interest to Latvia, and everyone has an opportunity to get acquainted with them. I would also like to thank Mr Dombravas, who stressed that CETA maintains all standards and regulations in the field of food safety and health, including the issues of GMOs of such importance to Latvian society. Information on prospective companies should also be mentioned. As I said, next week, at the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting, we intend to pay particular attention to entrepreneurs. Already now, 95 companies, which together employ at least 1400 employees, are exporting to Canada. This new agreement will be particularly favourable for small and medium-sized enterprises and we are confident that Latvian entrepreneurs will be able to use it, because already there are good export performance indicators for small and medium-sized enterprises in Latvia, they are relatively more competitive even for small and medium-sized enterprises in other European Union countries if we look at averages about how many currently export and how many have shown interest in exporting in the future. Mr President, as regards the pharmaceutical sector, it must be said that both Grindex and Olainfarm are already exporting to Canada, and overall, exports from the European Union's pharmaceutical industry are now three times higher than imports from Canada. We are convinced that this new treaty will open up even better prospects for competitiveness in Canada for our pharmaceutical industry. Finally, honourable Members, I really call on you to decide in favour of the smooth ratification of this treaty, thus demonstrating that relations with Canada are of great political importance to us, we know that Canada has taken a leading role in the creation of the NATO Multinational Battalion Battle Group in Latvia, and the smooth ratification of the CETA Agreement would allow us to reaffirm how much we appreciate it. The second argument and reason is deeply economic. If we were first to ratify this agreement, we would undoubtedly draw the attention of the Latvian economy, business environment and goods and services to a significant Canadian media and thus business. This would give us an additional handicap for our entrepreneurs in mastering the Canadian export market in contrast to the other Member States of the European Union. It would allow Latvian entrepreneurs to apply for, present and gain new useful contacts and recognition. And here I fully agree with what our very experienced colleague and also foreign policy expert Mr Leieniņa said. For the same reason, the Foreign Service is already working very actively so that high-level visits to Canada and Latvia can take place already this spring. Therefore, in view of the above benefits of the Agreement between the European Union and Canada, the protection of the sensitive interests of the European Union and Latvia, as well as the importance of CETA ratification in strengthening bilateral relations between Latvia and Canada, I call on you to support the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U101	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Internouncing call.) So Mr. Zarins doesn't want to debate. Name to Member Janis Urbanovich. ( Interface: ‘ Take it right away! ’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U102	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Very briefly, I would like to express my thoughts on a long - decided question. First of all, I would like to continue with Boris Cilevič's very right view, namely that if we already want investment in our economy and we do not have the options ourselves, such as investment, it is clear that we need to attract and attract something. By joining the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, we basically stimulate the potential interest of a Canadian investor in this shattered economy, like Latvia, and the damaged human capital... with our health care, our social guarantees and, unfortunately, our failed education system... What we all know. We need to take some responsibility for this and guarantee this investment, if not success (which we cannot guarantee), then at least security. Therefore, most of the Group's Members will, of course, support this Treaty for purely rational, pragmatic, let us say, purely national selfish reasons. But I want to both praise and make a note to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It can be denied, there were very well-prepared answers, it was possible to see that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs knew or knew the issues that were in society and which were retransmitted by Members from the Tribunal here. That's what I commended... Very high class... However, I would like more diplomacy (if not respect) from an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards Parliament and individual Members, whether they come from a "lovest" group or from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U103	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U104	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I recommend supporting the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U105	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Interface: Bravo!) ) For - 71, for - 8 and for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U106	14 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U107	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 14 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Siliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U108	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined amendments to the law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. The draft law provides for the implementation of the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and the Council of 15 May 2014 in Latvian legislation and specifically provides that third-country nationals who arrive at work in companies that carry on business in the Republic of Latvia or in the European Union are subject to the same conditions of entry and residence as EU citizens. Due to the fact that the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council had to be met by November last year, the Commission is asking for this bill to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 42, for - 36, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U110	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U111	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U112	This is a very necessary document, which has been lying in the Cabinet for three years without progress. This reflects the inaction of officials, the lack of control over the implementation and preparation of European documents, and the transfer to the Saeima, the lack of continuity in the exchange of officials and those responsible for these issues. Officials and representatives of Latvia expressed full confidence in 2013 and in 2014 in Europe that they defended this project and told us what amendments to the law would be necessary, what regulatory acts should be clarified. But after the document has been drafted, it has slept without movement for three years. And now we are urgently being urged to accept, allowing the idea that it is highly well prepared. Unfortunately, this document is not well prepared, and there is no clarity, in my view, about it. And it is the fault of the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Chancellery that there is no responsibility shared between different ministries... This time this regulation is trying to be incorporated into the amendments to the law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications, although it is about sending workers into practice, and many of the basic professions that will be sent to us to work are not at all on the list of regulated professions. The issue is therefore not resolved. It is only imagined that this regulation can be inserted... I hope that, for the second reading - unfortunately, only the second reading will be - these errors will be eliminated. And I draw attention to the fact that the issue is unclear, there is a hidden possibility for the workforce from third countries to enter Latvia bypassing the call system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U113	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U114	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U115	The rapporteur does not want to add anything on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U116	The Commission proposes to submit its proposals by 5 p.m. on 10 February and a final reading on 16 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U117	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 10 February this year. Review of the Saeima sitting, Mr. Silins... examination by the Saeima on 16 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U118	Dear colleagues, The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has examined proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations”. One proposal, which is a proposal of the Commission itself, the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, has been received and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U120	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U121	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U122	Submission of proposals by 14 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U123	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 February this year. On the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Law on Political Parties, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U124	Dear colleagues, The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Political Parties” for the second reading and has supported the only proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. I also ask the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U125	Members support the proposal. And the Commission is asking to support the draft law at second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Political Parties! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U126	Please submit your proposals by 14 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U127	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 February this year. On the agenda - first reading of the draft law on the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U128	We work with document No 2955. This draft law complements the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and Europe, both of which point to a significant increase in Canada's role in the European Union, both in terms of economic and security matters. This agreement also focuses on cooperation and intensification of relations not only in the field of security and the economy, but also in the fight against cyber crime, as well as on cooperation in research and other matters. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law and supported it at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U129	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U130	14 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U131	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 February this year. On the agenda: Draft Law on Amendments to the Maritime Code, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U132	Hello, dear colleagues! So, to your attention, amendments to the Maritime Code. These amendments will introduce a light registration procedure for small sailing yachts of a length not exceeding 12 metres. The Commission has examined this draft law and is asking for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U133	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Maritime Code. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U134	February 16th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U135	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 February this year. The order of business - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals” of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” (No 128/Lp12) until 7 March 2017. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” (No 128/Lp12) until 7 March 2017”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Accounting”” (No 798/Lp12) until 3 April 2017. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Accounting”” (No 798/Lp12) until 3 April 2017”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. So the decision has been made. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you of the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. The question of the Members Bondara, Betes, Melgailis, Ruka and Viļuma is addressed to the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On the Property Guarantee Programme of the Joint Stock Company “Development Finance Institution Altum””. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. The question of Members Zarina, Artūra Rubika, Raimonda Rubika, Andreja Klementyeva and Potapkina to the Minister for Welfare Janis Reiras “On statements made by the Ministry of Welfare on the sustainability of the state special budget”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Silver, Baloža, Meija, Platopera and Kūtra by the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On the reorganisation of the State Revenue Service in Regional Development Centres”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Silver, Baloža, May, Platoper and Kūtra to the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šaduriskis “On state and municipal support for learners with learning disabilities and learners with special needs”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question by Member Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova, Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On the functioning of the e-health single information system”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. The question of Member Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Adamson, Tutina and Agešina to the Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On avoidance of the Ministry of Health to name officials responsible for implementation of the “e-health” project. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question by Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On the requirements and competence of the board members of Paula Stradiņa Clinical University Hospital”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Zarina, Arthur Rubika, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister of Health Anda Chakša “On avoidance of the Ministry of Health to provide clear answers on the reasonableness of “e-health” costs”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. The question of MEPs Silver, Shifas, May, Platoper and Baloža to the Minister of Health Anda Chakša “On limiting the spread of hepatitis C by blood from donors”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. So today's answers to Members' questions will take place at 5 p.m. Members' questions have been received. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins, Ribakovs and Agešins have asked the question “On avoidance to provide information on the time limits for implementation of the new project of the clinical university hospital of Pauls Stradins”, which we submit to the Minister of Health. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins, Ribakovs and Agešins put forward a question to Members "On the basis of statements made by the Minister for Welfare on the sustainability of the state special budget", which is submitted to the Minister for Welfare. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U136	Hello, colleagues! We had asked the Minister for Welfare questions and asked him to justify his statements that the social budget was unsustainable. We asked him not only to provide his forecasts but also to provide the output data and calculations on the basis of which he made such statements. Unfortunately, we have not received them. The Minister for Welfare has not been able to provide his calculations and output data on the basis of which he makes such statements. Then we again ask the welfare minister to submit these calculations and the output data so that we can see what the welfare budget is then... the future of our social budget, or if there is no such justification, then the Minister for Welfare must acknowledge that he has made incompetent, unfounded statements. Let us wait for the welfare minister's answer!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U137	Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins, Ribakovs and Agešins submitted a question “On the avoidance of providing information on responsible persons in the implementation of the new body project of Paula Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital”, which we submit to the Minister for Health. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins, Ribakovs and Agešins submitted a question to Members “On avoidance to provide clear information on the construction costs of the new hospital of Pauls Stradins Clinical University”, which we submit to the Minister for Health. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is for Member Janis Vucanas, and we warmly welcome him! (Applause) Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U138	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the Committee on European Affairs will be held today at 12.30 a.m. in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Committee room in the same building as the Committee on European Affairs, just two floors below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U139	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U140	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Ints Dālderis, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Elksniņš, Ivans Klementyevs, Rihards Kols, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Romualds Ražuks, Veiko Spolitis and Juris Vectirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-02-09-PT12-400-U141	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
