ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 19 October 2017. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Public Expenditure and Audit asks to change the agenda of the meeting and to include in it the draft decision “On audit of the financial statements of 2017 and 2018 under the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia”. Mr Schnores, will you speak about or against this amendment to the agenda? Mr Schnores, will you speak about or against this amendment to the agenda? So Members do not want to talk about or against this amendment to the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? No Member has objected and the agenda has been amended. On the agenda, "The Bureau's reports on the annual national budget submitted and the related draft laws". The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Accounting” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on financing of conservation of the Sacred Heritage presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) The Members therefore want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 23, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 74, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Workers in the event of the insolvency of the employer” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Regulators of Public Services” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Obviously, I am calling for the 'yes' to be put to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and the Social and Labour Commission. But here is a few words. It was the Saeima and the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs who was an ideal mover that initiated the creation of this draft law, because the opt-out of the extended normal working time is a relic of crisis, which has long been eliminated in other sectors, but in health care, on the pretext of a chronic lack of money, it has not yet been done. And in response to a call from the trade union, the Social and Labour Commission took the initiative. In the sub-committee on Public Health we looked at this issue, the Latvian Medical Association supported it. Peteris Apinis was the first to say that the transitional provisions need to be amended. Many thanks also to the commission leader Aija Barča, who managed to convince the Prime Minister and Finance Ministers that it is necessary to phase out the extended normal working time this year. And this process started on July 1st. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call for this draft law to be passed on to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, and for this model of cooperation to be used in view and support of the Health Care Financing Act as such: society - the Saeima - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the State Administration and Municipal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Immigration to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Tax and Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Accounts” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen! The Group of the Alliance of the Regions of Latvia will support this draft law, because it aims to reduce the value added tax on so-called Latvia-specific vegetables, and this is in line with what we have signed ourselves in our pre-election programme, calling for healthy food to be supported. We have made a proposal here in the Saeima to support a reduced VAT rate for healthy food, but we have also received a number of reservations: "How do we determine what is healthy food?" When rewording the same question, I can also ask the authors of this bill: will all the vegetables and fruits listed in this bill really be healthy, and will they all really be grown in Latvia? For this reason, the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia modified its original intention, if you can say so, and called for a reduction in the VAT rate for biologically certified products. In our view, this would be a smarter and really more logical benefit in terms of reducing the price of healthy food. In this case, we do not know how much of all these vegetables and fruits - a total of 64 points on the list - will be organically grown and which will, to say, be served in the pesticide sauce. Even more so, I have concerns about whether the benefits of this reduction in the VAT rate will indeed be for all Latvian citizens. Because people living in the countryside simply grow their vegetables themselves and don't go to the store to buy them, especially if they are quite exotic vegetables such as mangolds, currants, coriander (good, it was still heard), fennels, sweet corn, bark, parsnips, sweet potatoes and turne. And to be honest, I think that many rural people will not have thought before. The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia will, however, support this draft law, because we really believe that the idea is perhaps not bad, it should be appreciated, but we would like to draw your attention to the fact that the original idea may eventually end with the fact that only traders will benefit. Traders, of course, of this difference... from a lower VAT rate will be beneficial, but farmers, at the end of the year, will still be forced to return production to the large merchant networks at the same previous prices. I call for a vote in favour, but very careful consideration of this draft law by the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. ‘ Varia Krūmiņš, a Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U6	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! With regard to these amendments, there are at least three issues that could be discussed and debated for quite a long time, but I want to touch today only one that probably affects all of us who have children and who care about children. In particular, the Ministry of Education and Science has announced that with effect from 1 January 2018, expenditure on the maintenance of municipal boarding schools and special pre-school educational institutions of municipalities ceased to be covered. This means that 12 boarding schools in 11 municipalities and 40 special pre-school educational institutions are left without maintenance means with this date, because the Minister of Education and Science and the Ministry of Education and Science believe that maintenance expenses must be covered from the municipal budget. The question is, why? To save something. The Latvian Association of Regions is not convinced that the Ministry of Education and Science and the Minister understand what will happen to boarding school students if these funds are not available to municipalities, and in the middle of the school year. We don't celebrate John on January 1, and we don't jump over the fire, neither do we celebrate Christmas in John. The school year begins on September 1. This is not a calendar year. Knowing that boarding schools often come from socially vulnerable and highly problematic families, there are at least two issues. The first question: who is studying in these boarding schools? They are often orphans or children without parental support, as well as learners from poor and very, very disadvantaged families. Not all of them are launchers. And if school changes regularly (this was also the case at our conferences), that is, if children change school four to eight times, then they do not change school because they want to change - they are simply thrown away from these schools because no one is able to deal with them. They are not the best students, nor, of course, the best classmates. Where are these schools? Not in cities, not in rich municipalities. These schools are in Tilža, Aglona, Birža, Iecava, Vaiņode, Mālpils, Kandava, Saldus... and some of these schools are located in the regions. These are neither the richest municipalities nor the big centres. Is this issue financially resolved and secured in these municipalities? Of course not. So the discussion here is not all... There is no final talk, and of course this issue hangs in the air. If boarding schools are combined with general education schools, it is clear to any teacher that these children will have to face additional serious problems in terms of both the learning process and public activities as well as behaviour. Because it is not clear how it will be ensured in the middle of the school year that the former boarding school pupils will be included in the environment of the new home - school. As a school director in the short term... how he will solve, perhaps when he's worried about the school rating, about the number of students... How will sudden changes in the parents of other students be explained? What support does the Ministry of Education and Science intend to provide to the school in this situation? As a result, some of these children will be on the street in the middle of the year. What will happen to them next? Is that what Minister Kārlis Shadurskis has taken care of? I don't think so. Most importantly, the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science has achieved savings at the expense of unfortunate children and the poor... Perhaps you should listen to the proposal of the Candava boarding school and study the social rehabilitation programme further before making destructive decisions in the boarding school. This programme was presented at the meeting of the Education, Culture and Science Committee a week ago. The Association of the Regions of Latvia considers that, firstly, it is not necessary to stop covering expenditure on internet school maintenance from the Ministry of Education and Science budget with 1 January 2018, that is, in the middle of the school year, if no agreement has been reached with certain municipalities on the reimbursement of specific expenditure for the maintenance of these schools. I would like to emphasise once again, especially in view of the fact that this is happening in the middle of the school year. Secondly, if the Ministry of Education and Science is unable to agree with local governments, then boarding schools should continue to finance the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science or find funds in the state budget, for example, from unforeseen events. Internet school students and teachers are not responsible for and are not responsible for the fact that the Ministry of Education and Science in the long term is unable to plan education reforms in Latvia and does not consider that care for these children is one of its priorities and one of its main responsibilities. Until there is a clear and understandable answer from the Minister...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U7	Thank you, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U8	... and action, solution from the Ministry of Education and Science, call for a vote against! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U9	Mr Aldis Adamovičs has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U10	Good morning, honourable colleagues! First of all, I want to oppose Mr Krūmiņš a little, because this bill is driven by the Cabinet of Ministers and not by the Ministry of Education and Science. Of course, quite large reforms have now started in the field of education, starting with content, from pre-school, as well as probably with regard to the university network. But boarding schools are currently one of the most topical issues, and I would like to remind you that already in 2016 amendments to the Education Law have been made, and the 50th paragraph of the transitional provisions provides that funding for boarding schools is foreseen until 31 December of this year. Indeed, the Commission has already seen this draft law, which provides for the exclusion of boarding schools as status and title, because now both the Ombudsman and the Ministry of Welfare are proposing that these children who study in boarding schools learn in general educational schools with boarding schools or service hotels. Of course, there is an unsolved problem with social correction programmes and help for these schools, and maybe 1 January is the moment when... We are not ready for such a step, and the Commission will examine all the proposals that will be made in connection with this draft law. In addition, we plan to go to Vainodo and Kandava on October 31 and look at what is happening. For the time being, six schools have already been sent to the Commission, six school directors have been asked to review this issue. That is why I am asking for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission right now so that we can look at it further and think, in the light of all the reservations, about further action on this issue. These children, who are currently in boarding schools, should be integrated into regular schools. Well, we sometimes... Emotional and psychological... We do not wonder how these children feel when they have been enrolled in boarding school at high school. I think not everyone is happy. Thank you. I beg you to hand it over to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U11	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission and the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please call me! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law passed on to commissions. The next item is the agenda. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) and the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) is the committee responsible. Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Roads” be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) and the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) and the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, stating that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? I can't see any objections. So the draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law of the Barn Courts” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and the Legal Commission, stating that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) and the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that the Commission is the responsible committee for Budget and Finance (tax). Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) and the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all Saeima commissions and that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to all Saeima committees, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law was passed on to all Saeima commissions, stating that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be handed over to all Saeima committees and that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be the committee responsible. ‘ Nelly Kleinberga, Member, has applied to speak against’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U12	Dear colleagues, The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia is familiar with the draft budget for 2018 and concludes that this is not to be supported. However, before we talk about what we do not support, I would like to mention three good things in this draft budget. Firstly, two per cent of gross domestic product will finally be allocated to national protection. One of the fundamental values of the Latvian Association of Regions is state security. On increasing the defence budget, the Association of Latvian Regions has joined since 2014, when the association's programme for the Saeima elections was prepared. Secondly, it is planned to reduce value added tax on fruit and vegetables grown in Latvia, and people will be expected to pay less in the future. Producers as well as consumers will benefit if traders are to be honest. And, of course, the country, because citizens - that is the country. Thirdly, in the draft budget, we do not see the so-called quotas of Members. But unfortunately it doesn't mean that it's not there, it's just hiding in other boxes. As we know, ministerial spending has grown considerably. Three years have passed, and only now the voice of the Latvian Association of Regions has been heard. We are pleased with these proposals and hope that these ideas will not be damaged in the long run. What, though, does not satisfy us? The Latvian Association of Regions does not accept large-scale spending in public administration, extra funds allocated to ministries, as well as increasing the red tape burden. Unfortunately, it has to be concluded that a public administration reform project aimed at cutting red tape in public administration, focusing on the development of relevant policies and audits, so as to assess efficiency and efficiency and eliminate unnecessary processes and regulation and reduce costs, will hardly progress quickly next year. Go on. Entrepreneurship, which is the driving force behind the Latvian economy, has created additional costs related to tax policy, which was approved in summer. All pre-election promises for stability and reduction of tax burdens appear to have disappeared. At present, entrepreneurs have a strong view that national economic and tax policies are more appropriate for the capital and the developed regions of Pierus, ignoring the differences between other regions and regions. National tax policies, state employment agencies and education institutions policies are not adequate for economic prosperity. And there is a big question: will entrepreneurs want to invest in Latvia and stay here if they still have doubts about the effective use of taxes in Latvia? As a result, the number of companies may drop even further. Already now, as statistics show, the dynamics in terms of the number of entrepreneurs are declining, and this is not the case only for micro-enterprises. And that's just a couple of positions I just mentioned! With regard to others who our group considers unsatisfactory, the Association of the Regions of Latvia has carried out an analysis and taken them very seriously, because the budget offer must be in the Latvian public interest. Rather than increasing civil servants' salaries or filling the budget gap mathematically, the public interest must be the only priority in terms of the country's growth next year. Remember that this burden will lie on the taxpayer's shoulders and their patience will not be endless! We will present our proposals and follow them closely in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Above all, however, we look forward to an objective assessment and support of the opposition proposals, so that we work together to improve the well-being of citizens and to develop the country. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U13	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Upenieks. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U14	Honorary Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Congratulations on handing over the draft budget for 2018 and the accompanying draft laws to the Saeima and wish everyone, especially colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Much work has already been done and the Cabinet of Ministers has done a remarkable job, but the tails are still left and the work is still before us all. Looking at the increase in budget lines, I think you will agree: the priority number in 2018 will be health. This area, following the insistence of the parliamentary factions, of the sector and of all health workers, will be the largest financial increase of EUR 235 million. Overall, it is planned to exceed a significant figure of EUR 1 billion. However, although the figures are good and I would like to say that we, Members of the Saeima, will have done our part after approval of the budget, we also hope that the Ministry of Health will be able to propose a qualitative reform of the sector, because these two components - both financing and reform - will only be able to ensure access to the best quality services for citizens together. There is a need to define a service basket and ensure that citizens are provided with a high level of health care. Also next year, all citizens of the country will be able to feel secure, because significant financial growth can be found in programmes of both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. In 2018, borders with Russia and strengthening Belarus will continue as well as additional funding will be directed to curb cyber crime. Financing from the Ministry of Defence will reach two per cent of gross domestic product. I think we can also call 2018 a year of family well-being and demographics. We will significantly increase the family state allowance and, taking care of the welfare of the foster families, we hope that in the transparent future we will be able to ensure that families will grow up in Latvia and no child will have to live in a orphanage. One of the programmes has so far shown state support for the purchase of housing for families with children. I am therefore very pleased that next year, too, we have managed to increase support for this programme, which allows more than 2,600 families to get to a long-term home. If someone asks you what exactly he will get next year, then you can safely answer every citizen of the country - the reduced VAT rate for Latvian-specific fruits and vegetables, and we will feel that benefit each one of us in our wallet. The minimum wage will be raised from 380 to 430 euros, which will give rise to income increases directly for those with lower incomes. From 1 January every businessman will be able to reinvest his or her profits in the development of the company without paying any tax, because the corporate income tax rate for the reinvested profits will be zero percent. The EUR 15 will increase precisely the smallest pensions, the non-taxable minimum pensions will be increased to EUR 250, and the reduction per dependant will reach EUR 200. And these are just some of the benefits in 2018. Having assessed the most important economic indicators and the positive trend of gross domestic product, as well as talking to the economics representatives, it is a pleasant feeling that we have reached the stage of stable growth of the country. I also agree that we need to make sure that the country continues to grow further. At the same time, however, we must take into account the lesson of the past. We must not ignore the indicators that make the main economists of the country concerned, such as the lack of labour in certain sectors, as well as the concerns expressed by the supervisors of fiscal discipline during the reallocation of appropriations. I call for support for the transfer of the budget package to the commissions. And while I know that during the period between readings we will try to create proposals that are beneficial and fiscally intensive for our industry, I call on you to remember that only a permanent, stable, balanced growth of the common economy in all areas will be a guarantee to solve the demographic problems and will ensure our country's wealth in the long term, the return of the displaced Latvians and the well-being of all Latvian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U15	Thank you. One Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to all Saeima committees, stating that the Commission is responsible for Budget and Finance (tax)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 53, against - 28, refrains. The draft law has been passed on to all parliamentary commissions, and the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is established as the committee responsible. Member Silvija Šimfa has asked for a word for a report on the motives for voting on the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018”. The Member will speak on behalf of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U16	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” and the draft law “On the Medium-Term Framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020” are not supported. Do we have a different opportunity as an opposition? I don't think so. Because (I quote): "There could not be real adjustments," Kuchinski told journalists after the Coalition Council, in response to a question about this possibility, if Members tried to come forward with their proposals during the examination of the budget." ( End quoted) Explicit reference by the Prime Minister to the coalition. The opposition is also absolutely clear. These draft laws have already been decided unconditionally. And because of such a procedure of consideration, and because of the unamended content, they are unacceptable to us and “from the heart” to Latvia vote “no”. By voting against these draft laws, we are voting against the abolition of boarding schools, as this will make life quality and future opportunities for hundreds of poor family children worse. We are voting against the unchanged minor material provision for people with disabilities for years. We are voting against the shift of too slow and minor old-age pensions from the poverty line. We are voting against paid medicine. We are voting against the subordination of science. We are voting against the invisibility and short-sightedness of the mind, which allows the way to collapse to continue. We are voting against the disregard of regional disparities in economic and tax policy, which deprives the Latgale region of any possibility of getting out of poverty. And they're not all against. The government does not offer a significant reform of the mutilated state administration apparatus, but our businessmen, taxpayers, can no longer afford to maintain this large and ineffective state administration. Every year we are told about the measures of optimisation, budget review, and every year the State Audit Office detects increasing and increased spending on questionable bonuses in public administration structures. The government is drawing up a budget which ignores payments that have already been indebted from year to year. Insufficient funding (in the amount of several tens of millions of euros) has already been included in the state budget for several programmes, such as the cost of passenger transport, the use of railway infrastructure, the purchase of medicines and medical devices for outpatient treatment, health care services provided to Latvian citizens within the framework of the European Union social security system and others. The package of accompanying draft laws includes both new laws and amendments of laws related to the draft state budget, which once again cover the failure of officials to perform their tasks in a timely manner in relation to implementation of European Union directives. Of course, it is easier to eject these draft laws through the Saeima without much discussion - in two readings. ‘ From the heart to Latvia” invites to ensure implementation of the requirements laid down in Latvian legal acts in the course of the examination of the draft budget. And remember that the country - these are people!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U17	Thank you. Consequently, we have examined all draft laws under the heading ‘The Bureau’s reports on the annual national budget submitted and their related drafts’ and the transition to the next section on ‘On the drafts submitted’. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” submitted by the Saeima’s State Administration and Municipal Commission be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be a responsible commission. Do Members have objections? Member Artus Neimanis wants to talk about or “to”? ‘ Against’. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U18	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Nice to see you behind my back. Yesterday I had a wonderful opportunity to meet the best, most intelligent, most beautiful, most beautiful commission in the Saeima. I have a question for this commission and Member Dolgopolov at the same time - a question of procedure. The municipal elections took place on 3 June. Today is October 19, huh? Why the Urgent Again? Why did you not come to this question, say, on 4 June, immediately after the municipal elections? On the annotation. ‘ What can be the possible impact of the law on the development of society and the economy? The draft law is without prejudice to this area. What could be the possible impact of the law on the state budget and municipal budgets? The draft law shall be without prejudice to this field.’ What can be done?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, Perhaps Member Dolgopolov has never paid for himself, because in order to participate in the elections, you have to pay some security to the CEC. Maybe someone else has paid it for Member Dolgopolov, I don't know. But, of course, there's money involved. However, it is said that the draft law does not concern this area. Next. ‘ What can be the possible impact of the law on the existing legal framework? The draft law shall be without prejudice to this field.’ Annotation is totally useless, I think. So, Member Dolgopolov, come here, please, at the platform, and explain to the public why there is urgency, why there is such a completely unfinished annotation, and explain the procedure. Come and explain, otherwise it's a brother you don't so much want to send out of your commission, as well as the five previously mentioned draft laws that have been stuck in your drawer for two years. Please! I'm waiting for the answer!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U19	Thank you. ‘ For’ no Member... Member Dolgopolov will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U20	Dear colleagues, Only possible if the document has been read from the beginning to the end. If it has not been read, unfortunately nothing can be explained. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U21	Colleagues! Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management" presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and that it be designated as the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Legal Status and Pensions of the Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia” presented by Member Mūrniece, Lībiņa-Egnere, Dauges, Klementjeva, Kūtra and Kleinberg” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is "On own-initiative proposals tabled". The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 989 Latvian citizens “Let’s Eliminate the possibility for Members of the Saeima to abstain from voting””. Member Ivars Freezers has signed up to speak. Please! Or... So, first of all, we need to put this issue on the agenda of today's sitting, and then there will be a debate. Or at the moment on the procedure... Is that so? So, Member Freeer does not want to talk about the procedure. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima today's sitting? Members shall not object. Consequently, the draft decision “On the progress of the collective application of 10 989 Latvian citizens “Let us eliminate the possibility for the Saeima to abstain from voting” is on the agenda of today’s sitting. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For unpaid leave granted to Member Intt Dalder on 19 October this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Intt Dalder on 19 October this year. The Saeima Bureau shall inform it that it has received a request from Member Inta Dalder to grant him unpaid leave on 19 October of this year. The Bureau granted this leave and informed the Saeima about it. For unpaid leave granted to a Member, Aleksandr Kirštein, from 17 October to 19 October this year. For unpaid leave granted to a Member, Aleksandr Kirštein, from 17 October to 19 October this year. The Saeima Bureau shall inform him that he has received a request from a Member, Mr Kirštein, to grant him unpaid leave from 17 October to 19 October of this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Mr Janis Rucks from 17 October to 20 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau shall inform that a request for unpaid leave from 17 October to 20 October of Member Janis Rucks' application has been received. The Bureau granted this leave and informed the Saeima about it. For the granting of unpaid leave to Member Roman Money from 24 October to 26 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau shall inform that a Member's application for leave from 24 October to 26 October of the year has been received with a request for leave not paid to him from 24 October to 26 October of the year in question. And we have to make a decision on this by voting. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Roman Money from 24 October to 26 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As a result, unpaid leave has been granted to the Member Roman Money. For granting unpaid leave to Member Lolita Chigana on 26 October this year. The Saeima Bureau informed that she had received a request from Member Lolita Chigane to grant her unpaid leave on 26 October this year. We must decide on this by voting. Please call me! Please vote mode! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Lolita Chigan on 26 October this year! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Free leave for Member Lolita Chiganė was granted on 26 October. Before we continue to discuss the agenda of the approved sitting, there are proposals for amendments to it. The Bureau has received two amendments to the agenda of today's meeting. The first is the request of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government to amend the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 19 October 2017 and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” for the first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 19 October 2017 and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” for the first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Consequently, the transition to the next section of the agenda - processing Members' requests. Request to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On failure of the state without applying additional personal income tax reliefs for disability”. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received a Member Andrejs Klementyeva, Inguna Silverba, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Urbanovičs, Gunāra Kūtra, Andra Morozova, Ivars Brīvers, Jānis Adamsons, Sergejs Potapkinas and Vital Orlovs' application to Prime Minister Māris Kučinskis “On failure of the state without applying additional personal income tax reliefs for disability”. Members propose that the request be declared urgent and have asked for a statement of reasons. The name of the request to the Member, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U22	Good morning, honourable Members! I am sure that everyone has read this request. He was based on the State Audit Office report submitted for 2016. Why is it urgent? I will tell you a few words about what is happening today. For pensioners, today is an inexpensive minimum of 235 euros. It is applied very precisely and automatically by the national social security agency. But there is also a relief for groups 1, 2 and 3 with a disability of 154 euros or 120 euros. It shall apply only if the pensioner with disabilities enters the EDS system and makes a mark where necessary. Understand that not all pensioners and disabled people use the Internet. Almost 62 percent of people with disabilities do not use this system, and therefore the state cannot give them relief!... It follows that the 9000 pensioners who are entitled to this relief have not taken advantage of this opportunity and receive 12 euros less each month than we, Members, legislators, are giving them. This means that the State Revenue Service, together with the State Social Insurance Agency, cheats these people every month. We understand that the Internet, e-government, everything else - it is very modern and important to make life easier for people. But we also realize that we are working with people who need special help. We see those people in Maxim's stores as well as in other places where they pay their bills in cash. They use banking rather than Internet banking services and so on. You understand that we need to help these people! That is why we are asking and asking Members today to support this request as a matter of urgency so that two high-ranking officials, such as, let us accept, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Welfare, can find an opportunity to prevent these people from taking advantage of the e-environment and automatically obtaining relief. Let's assume if a person with disabilities who needs these reliefs thinks differently or wants to use these reliefs at a different location, for example, at a salary, then let him enter the EDS himself and put a bunch there. Do you understand? But to all others who do not use this environment, that it should be granted automatically! This means that it is necessary to bring together two officials from the State Social Insurance Agency and from the SRS and use their environment, the internet environment... and make the application more transparent. You think I didn't try to do it without a request? There was an opportunity to call both officials and others. Nobody wants to do anything! Everyone says: “The law is, and we will execute the law.” Do you understand? We can't help every pensioner today and give some 10-15 euros through indexation, but they're our idea... destroy the reliefs we entered into the law because they do not go to the client. 9000 people - pensioners with disabilities - don't get 12 euros every month because officials don't want to hear our thoughts and always hide behind some commas and points. Please acknowledge the urgency of this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U23	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, one Member may speak "on the urgency", one may speak "no". ‘ Against” has applied to speak by Member Augusts Brigmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U24	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Of course, this issue is very important and topical. And thank my fellow Members for raising this issue. The question is that the Prime Minister is not present in Latvia. He is in Brussels, where he has a very important issue at the moment: defending the interests of Latvian farmers. This issue will, of course, be dealt with by the Request Commission. Either the Prime Minister himself will be or he will delegate the relevant minister on this matter. So that I call for this issue to be fully considered when the Prime Minister is on the ground in Latvia, and that the urgency of this issue is not supported today, but driven in the course of the process. The Commission will not hesitate to address this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U25	Thank you. In line with the Rules of Procedure, we must vote on whether or not to make the request urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the request by Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On failure of the state without applying additional personal income tax reliefs for disability” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 35, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The request for urgency is not recognised and therefore the request should be submitted to the Request Commission. Thank you. The next item is a request from Members Andrejs Klementyeva, Sylvia Šimfas, Mārtiņš Šica, Igora Zuveva, Aleksandra Jakimova, Andra Morozova, Raimonds Rubika, Gunara Kūtra, Ivana Ribakova and Ivars Zariņa to the Minister for Health Anda Čakša “On reduction of patient co-payments”. On behalf of the Commission, Augusts Brigmanis, Chairman of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U26	Dear Members, The request made by our colleagues Andrejs Klementjeva, Silvija Šimfas, Mārtiņš Šics and other members to the Minister of Health Anda Čakša “For reduction of patient co-payments” was discussed by the Commission for Requests. I stress that the issues raised by colleagues at this meeting of the Request Commission were very important. Will the Ministry of Health take into account the recommendations in the OECD Economic Report and reduce patients' contributions and co-payments in 2018? Will additional funding for the health sector be used to improve access to healthcare for patients and to reduce co-payments for patients? What improvements to access to healthcare services for patients are planned by the Ministry of Health to carry out within the framework of additional funding? Will and when will the most important types of prevention and treatment for patients be identified, to which patients will be fully exempted from their contributions and co-payments? The Health Minister was therefore heard by the Commission on the request. In my opinion, there was a constructive discussion, and opinions were adopted. However, this request was rejected by the Request Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U27	Thank you. No Member has applied for the debate. That concludes the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Andrejs Klementyeva, Sylvia Šimfas, Mārtiņš Šics, Igora Zuveva, Aleksandra Jakimova, Andra Morozova, Raimonds Rubika, Gunāra Kūtra, Ivana Ribakova and Ivars Zariņš to the Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On Reduction of Patient Co-Payment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 33, against - 52, refraining from - 1. The request is rejected. We have come to the next section of the agenda - Examination of draft laws. Let us consider the first draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, the Chairman of the Commission Gaidis Berzins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U28	Dear President, Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”. I recall that this draft law is related to amendments to the Competition Law, which the Saeima has already supported in its third final reading. The Commission has been actively working on the development of these amendments, and we have also finally asked the Ministry of Economics for a precise explanation of the purpose of the amendments in question. This is linked to the implementation of the requirements of the Directive. The Ministry of Economics has also added this explanation and anyone who will have an interest in understanding the purpose and will of the legislators of these norms in the future will be able to find and get acquainted with it. In total, 15 proposals were examined by the Commission. 1 and the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Asheraden, which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U29	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U30	The Commission developed an alternative proposal, which was supported and numbered 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U32	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a more precise nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U34	4. is a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U36	5. the proposal by the Legal Office, which received support from the Commission, is clarified.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U38	6 is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U40	7. - a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U42	The Commission had discussions on the 8th proposal. The 8th proposal was submitted by the Minister for Economic Affairs. It was partly supported and established by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U44	So 9 is the proposal of the Legal Commission, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U46	10. There is a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U48	11. the Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported, has been clarified.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U50	12 is also an explicit proposal from the Minister of Economic Affairs, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U52	13. is a proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, which is linked to the clarification of the transitional provisions. This was partly supported by the Commission because the Commission set up its proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U53	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U54	14. There is a Commission proposal that was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U56	And the question of the entry into force of the law, which is included in 15. - on a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs, was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U58	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on detention, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U60	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Detaining Procedures Act” was reviewed and approved at the commission meeting on 10 October this year. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The draft law provides for amendments on a number of rather important issues. First, editorial amendments have been made, second, the law has been supplemented by Article 11, which lays down criteria for the transfer of prisoners to another prison of inquiry, if necessary. But the most important is the third: the amendments concern the rules on the conduct of the meeting of the arrested. At one time, based on the judgment of the Constitutional Court in 2009, glass walls were removed in the cabins of the meeting rooms of investigation prisons, which in turn had very unpredictable consequences. Now there are often cases where the persons involved in criminal proceedings arrive at a meeting with the arrested persons. And in order to interfere with the course of criminal proceedings, often during these meetings prohibited articles, substances and, of course, information are transferred to the arrested persons. Therefore, the existing regulation is being improved by providing for a more detailed procedure on how this meeting takes place and who can attend the meeting. The rights of relatives and spouses are, of course, not restricted, and the rights are limited to third parties. These amendments to the law also provide for the transfer of sentenced persons to a prison of inquiry in the interests of an investigation if new circumstances or other crimes are discovered. Similarly, procedural guarantees are introduced for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, and they are given better movement arrangements, more opportunity to spend time in fresh air, as well as education. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was therefore approved at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U62	The deadline will be 24 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U63	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading is 24 October this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U64	This amendment is technical and merely provides that the scope of the convicted rights in an investigative prison will in future be determined by the law on detention procedures. In the Commission, this draft law was supported and I therefore call on the Commission to support it at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U65	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U66	This draft law is also due to expire on 24 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U67	Thank you. In the absence of other proposals on time limits, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 24 October of this year. The next item is the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Banking”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Andris Morozovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U68	Hello, chair of the sitting! Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Banking”. Section 10, Paragraph Three of the Law on Higher Education provides that the constitutions and amendments of the universities established by the State shall be adopted by the meeting of the respective higher education institution and approved by the Saeima on the recommendation of the Minister of Education and Science by law. On the basis of this norm, the Ministry of Education and Science has sent to the draft Saeima Law, which provides for approval of amendments to the Constitution of the University of Banks adopted on 31 January 2017. The Commission supported the draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U69	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Banks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U70	Proposals for second reading are due by 24 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U71	No other proposals on time limits exist, the deadline for the second reading is 24 October 2017. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Statistical Law, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Astrid Harju. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U72	Dear Saeima! The National Administration and Municipal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Statistics Law” and has decided to support it and to direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima sitting. These amendments are based on the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on the concept of development of administrative penalty system and on the creation of a system of codification of administrative infringements in sectors. These amendments define the administrative responsibility for the statistical field as well as the competence of the Central Statistical Administration in the application of penalties. And these norms are thus included in this law from the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading for the draft law on the amendment to the Statistics Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on statistics! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U74	The Commission is asking for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals on 9 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U75	There are no other proposals regarding the deadline. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is November 9 this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U76	Dear colleagues, This draft law concerns the procedure for evaluating the education and professional experience acquired outside formal education. The committee responsible has examined the proposals submitted and the draft law has been approved for consideration by the Saeima at second reading. Three proposals have been made: 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U78	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U80	And 3. - Shadursky's proposal. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U81	Members also support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U82	Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U83	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U84	The deadline for submitting proposals is October 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U85	What October? So there are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 30 October of this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Maritime Code, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U86	Good morning, honourable colleagues! So we are working on amendments to the Maritime Code (No 937/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has received nine proposals for this draft law for the second reading. The proposal is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars, who is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U88	The second proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars, is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U90	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U92	4. There is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U93	Members also support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U94	5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U96	The 6th is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U98	7. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U100	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U102	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U103	And this proposal is also supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U104	We have therefore examined all the proposals that have been tabled and, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U105	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Maritime Code". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U106	Thank you. Let us wait until 24 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U107	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 24 October this year. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the law on the participation of the Republic of Latvia in the flexible mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U108	Good morning, colleagues! We work with amendments to the law “On participation of the Republic of Latvia in the flexible mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol”, second reading. Three proposals have been received. 1 is the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U110	2. There is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U112	3. There is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission has been discussed and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U113	Members also support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U114	So, colleagues, we have examined all three proposals. I call for the vote on the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U115	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law on the participation of the Republic of Latvia in the flexible mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U116	Colleagues, let us wait until 24 October for the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U117	There are no other proposals. The proposals for the third reading should therefore be submitted by 24 October this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on defence and security procurement, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U118	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”, second reading. There are six proposals in total. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U120	2. There is also a proposal from the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U122	On the other hand, the 3rd and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U124	4. ... Colleagues, I'll find you, long table... 4. There is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U126	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U128	And six. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which provides that the law shall enter into force on 1 December 2017. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U130	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all six proposals and I call for the vote on the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U131	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on defence and security procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was therefore approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U132	Colleagues! If you have any constructive proposals in connection with the law on defence and security procurement, I call for them to be submitted by 24 October this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U133	The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 24 October this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Andris Morozovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U134	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” (No 998/Lp12). The draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Science specifies the procedure in which public and private universities and colleges will be able to open new courses in the future, as well as delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for opening courses. It is also planned to provide that universities will be able to choose where to carry out the external quality assessment organizer - either the Academic Information Centre or a quality assurance agency included in the European Register for Higher Education. The draft law also provides for facilitating the signature of licence and accreditation forms for study programmes. The second and third paragraphs of Section 55.2 of the Law on Higher Education and paragraph 1.2 of Section 55.3 of the Law on Higher Education are foreseen to enter into force on 1 January 2018. At its meeting on 17 October, the Commission examined and supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U135	Thank you. Before we start the debate, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Members of the Saeima, Mr Janis Upenieks, Mr Augusta Brigmanis, Mr Alda Adamoviča, Mr Raivja Dzintars and Mr Ivars Zariņš to continue the meeting of the Saeima on 19 October this year, without interruption, until the examination of all the items on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) Members shall not object. We are therefore continuing to discuss the agenda of today's sitting without interruption. We launched a debate on the draft law. Name to Member Ivar Freezer. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U136	Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law offers as if good things. As can be seen in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, it will remove the additional burden for the Minister of Education and Science, who will no longer have to burden himself with signing accreditation sheets, and the Academic Information Centre will no longer have to organise visits to higher education institutions for detailed examination of documents. And so on. The draft law will make it easier for universities to open new courses. It all sounds good. However, based on my experience in the work of universities, I express my wish to take the following aspects into account in the further progress of this draft law. Several years ago, when I was more involved with the accreditation of fields of study in universities, one of the honourable members of the Expert Commission in informal conversation said that there were about 100 different fields of study in Germany, but there are about 500 in Latvia. Why? Universities are looking for their competitive advantage, offering courses of study that are only available in this university, as if unique. Unfortunately, this uniqueness is often expressed only in the title. In other words, the same carrot is sold, only once it is wrapped in red paper, another time - green, another time surrounded by pink tape, and each time it is called another name. The titles of study directions include fashionable and, as one doctorate once said, sexy words: innovation, added value, tourism. So it happens that students don't know what they really study, not only when they start their studies, but also when they finish them. As I recently heard in an interview with a leading higher education staff, the field of studies “Physics” should now look for a different name, that is, a more sexy one, because now, you see, the future student understands what will need to be studied and understands that it will be difficult. I invite you to include a norm in the draft law, which requires universities to give names as short as possible and understandable to all, based on internationally recognised classifications. As our folk song says, “Go, you pales, a righteous way, speak a righteous language, and God will help you to walk the righteous way.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U137	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, will you want to add something else? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U138	The deadline for the second reading is November 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U139	5?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U140	9.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U141	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 9 November of this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U142	Hello, honourable Members! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined amendments to the Saeima Election Law at first reading and has supported them. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U143	Thank you. No one has applied for the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Why?” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U144	The deadline for the second reading is December 15, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U145	It therefore calls for proposals to be submitted for the second reading by 15 December of this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Waste Management Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U146	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared amendments to the Waste Management Law. The draft law provides for the improvement of the waste transport system and the reinforcement of controls. In order to enable traceability of shipments of waste, the draft law provides for an obligation for the operator to notify the shipment of this waste within the planned national waste accounting information system no later than three days before the planned shipment of waste. This will also apply to the so-called green list of waste imported into Latvia for recycling or recovery. In this case, the national environmental service will be informed in good time and will be able to decide on the necessary controls and monitoring for transport. We also intend to strengthen the regulation of waste traders and intermediaries. Traders and intermediaries do not always carry out the appropriate activities for waste management, nor do they accumulate the waste for a long time in non-compliant locations and volumes. It is also envisaged to introduce financial guarantees for waste managers. The operator will be required to obtain a financial guarantee before receiving a Category A or B permit for the recovery or recovery of waste, as well as a shipment of waste. Let us also clarify the terms "recycled materials" and "waste". Improvements or corrections have also been made to correctly transpose the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive. Let us also change the procedure for collecting natural resources tax. The tax is included in the waste storage tariff. Colleagues! I call for this draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U147	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U148	Let us wait until 2 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U149	There are no other proposals regarding the deadline. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 2 November of this year. Thank you. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". Draft decision “On audit of financial statements for 2017 and 2018 under the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit - Member Alexey Loskutov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U150	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! The country... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Thank you. Paragraph One of Section 45 of the State Audit Office Law establishes an obligation for the Saeima to select, by competitive procedure, sworn auditors or statutory auditors for the purpose of carrying out an audit of the annual financial statement of the State Audit Office. In order to fulfil this obligation and ensure an open selection procedure, on 18 April 2017 the Public Expenditure and Audit Committee of the Saeima established and on 24 April 2017 the Saeima Presidium approved the Procurement Commission, whose task was to carry out the procedure for the procurement of audit services of the State Audit Office in 2017 and 2018. The established Procurement Commission works in compliance with the requirements of the Public Procurement Law and recognised “A.KURSITES AUDITORFIRMA” as the winner of the procurement. I invite the Saeima to approve the audit of the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia for 2017 and 2018 as the auditor of the financial statements of the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia “A.KURSITE AUDITORFIRMA”.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U151	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On audit of financial statements for 2017 and 2018 under the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". Draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 989 Latvian citizens “Let us eliminate the opportunity for the Saeima to abstain from voting”. On behalf of the commission of mandates, ethics and applications - the chairman of the commission Vitalijs Orlovs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U152	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! In accordance with Section 13.1.5(4) and (5) of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application examined 10 989 collective application of Latvian citizens “Let’s Liquidate the Saeima Members’ Opportunity to Retain in Voting”. The Commission heard an authorised representative of the applicants who called on the last sentence of the last paragraph of Article 139 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure ‘The Members who voted in favour, against or ‘abstain’ shall be deemed to be present’. The representative said that this would reduce the possibility for Members to hide their views or mislead voters, giving the impression that they have abstained despite the fact that they have actually voted 'no'. The applicants consider that the vote in the Saeima "abstains" is equivalent to the vote "no" and can therefore be misunderstood. The representative said that Members used restraint even in nationally decisive votes. As an example, the draft law on the termination of the status of non-citizen for children was mentioned. ‘ 39 votes in favour, 38 in favour and 40 in favour. In many other parliaments, including countries with centuries-old democratic traditions, Members are not able to pretend and actually vote 'no' by voting. For example, the United Kingdom, the United States, Austria, Ireland, Canada, Malta, the Netherlands, Slovenia and Australia do not have the opportunity to vote "abstain". Members of the Danish and Swedish Parliaments have the opportunity to vote ‘abstain’, but these votes are not counted in the joint vote, and only the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ ratio decide the decision. In view of the above, and the fact that the issue of amendments to the Rules of Procedure is currently open to the Saeima, the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications prepared and unanimously supported the draft decision at its meeting on 11 October 2017 and decided to direct it to the Saeima to decide on the referral of the matter to the Legal Commission for evaluation by 15 January 2018. The Commission is asking to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U153	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Member Ringolds Balodis spoke in the first debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U154	Hello, colleagues! Good afternoon, the most honorable Head of the sitting! Last week, the best Latvian legal journal, which is, by the way, the only one, namely “The Lawyer’s Name”, organised a discussion, an expert survey, which we should do better with regard to the menus “for”, “no” and “abstain”. One of our colleagues, one hundred, wrote: "If this initiative is supported by the Saeima and turned into an amendment to the Saeima roll, the work in Parliament will become more dynamic, perhaps even intriguing." I also think that this citizens' initiative should be supportive and perhaps indeed the possibility of abstaining should be removed. Why? Let me explain the consequences of this. Every thing has its side effects or, as it says, side effects. A colleague, Dr. Annija Kārkliņa, the Head of the Department of State Law of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia, writes last week in a poll: “A good parliamentary practice would be if Members “abstain” the opportunity to use it only in special cases and not as the most convenient way of expressing their attitude.” Indeed, if we look at the interpretative dictionary, the word "abstention" is interpreted as avoiding action, in a particular case from voting, and so do most people. However, we all know that, in the votes cast, the Member is voting against the motion to be put to the vote rather than being neutral in his expression. People, of course, think differently. In a number of countries - the United Kingdom, the United States, Austria, Ireland, Canada - these almost 11 000 citizens who have initiated this issue on the ManaBalss.lv are organised and Members cannot abstain from voting. However, we all know that if we were to be denied the possibility of abstaining, there are still two opportunities related to the electronic system that we use on a daily basis. For example, I have thought that THE SAID even uses a special gesture. When voting in favour or against or abstaining from voting, appropriate gestures shall be made. When you have to take the card out, they show the cull. And then, massively, the cards are taken out. Can it be denied? I think that cannot be denied. ‘ The quorum, as the nation says, should not be denied Members because it is such a political fight, a way to fight. Therefore, if, however, the majority vote accordingly (I have great doubts about it when looking at you) and you will still rule out this possibility from the parliamentary roll, the result will be that many wolves out of the card (I think they would not be able to prevent it) and will not take part in the vote at all, will not make any choice - either 'for' or 'no'. This means that, in fact, according to the roll of order of the Saeima, they will not be counted in a quorum in a given vote. Well, these consistencys will in fact lead to other side effects - just like when the roll of order of the Saeima was amended in 2009 and Members were denied 'walking', the formation of new political groups. What's going on? Look at this! Smilten, sitting at the left hand of Solvita Aboltiņš... He has to sit at the Neighbours, but he's not sitting at the Neighbours, he already has two sittings, I understand, at his own. ( Milestones.) He is denied to walk by factions, but he also walks! I will not talk about the previous Saeima, where the Members concerned were in another party and in another group. In other words, every step we do should be considered and evaluated twice, as it causes side effects. And in this case, I myself support this amendment because, in essence, it will not significantly change... Well, it will certainly not change this situation, but people will be able to see clearly the views of every representative of our people, because it is not good that people feel that we Members are indecision. We should be decisive. So, colleagues, I support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U155	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U156	(Dep. S.Absolute intermediate call sign.) But I wouldn't want to sit next to you either! Mr Baloža, you have pleasantly surprised me by saying that you are still in favour. Every member of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia made an oath here: “I, when I assume the office of Member of the Saeima, swear before the people of Latvia (in a solemn way) to be faithful to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and the Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and for the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.” This solemn promise, or the oath of a Member, has nothing to do with abstaining. Show me at least one businessman in our country who would lead your company, with no abstentions to make decisions! There's no such businessman! He has to make decisions. You have been elected here in principle to take decisions for Latvia - Latvia! - And you can't hold back. You might take an example from me. I haven't been able to force the button "abstention" for two years. I have always voted either in favour or against. And, believe me, it's not hard! I have not fallen off and to answer journalists about why I have or have not supported the draft law in question, I do not have any problems. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “For what?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ It is that you will have the opportunity to vote on this matter three times. The parliamentary order roll is being amended at the moment, and there was also my proposal to remove 'abstention' from the outside, and Mr Freeer also defended his proposal for 'abstention'. So you'll be able to vote twice... And the third time will be about this... Which date was... Is that so? Mr. Orlov, January 15 was, huh? Can't talk already, uh, uh, that you know! But time in January 2018 the Legal Commission has to give its opinion. What happened to these previous two proposals is that I can tell you quickly. The STECF does not like this at all. Many... Many... From the mouth of many speaking... because many have said that he is not satisfied, because there is a need to be a "abstention", otherwise a Member cannot carry out his task in good faith. ANOTHER there is no point in mind, for it turns out, to refrain as if it's very good... But it has already been mentioned that in the UK, the United States, Austria, Ireland, Canada, Malta, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Australia, there is no room for restraint. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: 'Cause they have another voting system, Mr. Neighbours!' ) Whoever owes EUR 14 000 to the country is silent. ( Milestones.) You see, that's the thing that I really, very much would like to really... You can laugh maybe and say there's a circus and something like that... But you have to make decisions. If you are not able to push 'for' or 'no' and you need this 'abstention' option, then you are a bad Member. The conflict that could be discussed by the Legal Commission... Solvita Āboltiņa, I think that this retention button option could remain, but so that “abstain” is not counted as “no”. And then that can happen. Then you can also tell the public why you have voted "resist" and then you will have an opinion, then they will hear you. But now this "abstains"... There's a lot of such self-restraint specialists here... ( Interface: “You are already! ” ) As I mentioned, for two years I have not pressed the retention button. In any case, please support this proposal and please be so kind: in the Legal Commission, think that this legal delay may not be possible if refraining is not counted as 'no'. This would make our country better, our decisions more transparent, and perhaps you will also ever be re-elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U157	Thank you. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U158	Ladies and gentlemen! My speech will be very brief, because Mr Balozy and Mr Kaimina have already said a lot of what I want to say. Members of the Association of the Regions of Latvia not only support the Latvian citizens' initiative, but have already come with a proposal for similar content on amendments to the parliamentary order roll. As we all know, the current voting arrangements essentially provide for five options, which I will not now list. However, the 'abstention' vote is essentially 'no' vote. Our opinion is fully in line with that of the applicants: such a softer 'no' vote is not needed. I would like to clarify: the essence of both the collective application and the proposal of the Latvian Association of Regions is to take into account only votes in favour or against. Consequently, it is no longer essential to leave the voting button "abstentions" or not. The vote "abstentions" in this case would mean genuine abstention, which is currently in line with the non-vote, while maintaining its present status. I believe that the retention button should, however, be left. It is true that a Member must have sufficient knowledge to express his opinion on any issue, but there may be objective circumstances why this is not possible. Consider an example. As a typical example: the draft laws on tax reform, which were discussed in the Saeima in the summer. This huge package was received by opposition members shortly before the Saeima sitting. A thorough examination of these documents would take at least a month. Now it has been necessary to draw conclusions quickly, which I, as a professional economist, cannot recognise as sufficiently well-founded. Another example: If the parliamentary session is postponed by more than an hour, as happens at times, it is quite natural that a Member may need to leave the Chamber, so he does not hear everything that is being discussed. It is therefore only fair that the Member recognises, when he returns to the Chamber, that he is not competent enough to vote in favour or against. However, if I press the "resist" button, this means that I have voted against it. Members of the Group of the Regions of Latvia are already refraining from voting. I can say about myself that I have certainly not abstained from the sittings of the Saeima or from committee sittings in at least the last month. However, it would also be right to strengthen this in the parliamentary order, in line with the experience of countries where Members are not at all able to abstain - as has already been listed - or where there is such an opportunity, but only those who are in favour or against are taken into account, as is the case in Denmark and Sweden. I invite Members to support the proposal of the Latvian Resident and Latvian Regions Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U159	Thank you. (Applause) Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U160	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Colleagues! There are very few votes here today "abstentions", uncharacteristically few. If you want, you can get it. I also consider such a vote to be, whether it is unclear, not defined and, therefore, I do not use it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Because you’re not allowed!” ) Both in this Saeima and in the previous Saeima twice at the beginning of the absence of experience, I would miss the button, but... I just didn't use it. But if we want to start with what is included in this application as the first one - to avoid the avoidance of Members and misleading votes - then we will not get caught up with the main root. For what is the avoidance of the vote? ‘ Abstentions’ means the 'no' vote. Yes! It's soft, it's undefined. As we want, we call it, but it is “no, ” and it is not circumvention. Avoidance is a situation where many, who are also fighting this abstention, simply take that card out - they do not vote. It's an absconding! And if we want to combat misleading votes and avoidance, then inevitably we must start with the fact that Members do not really take part in the vote. And then the question of "abstention", which is actually a secondary vote, is completely, quite secondary. Oh, yeah! I will continue to take the opportunity... I would like to use the possibility of not voting in'responsible'. By this I can stand out well against those who have many yellow votes, which really is bad style. But... All right. There will also be no major disaster if we move this proposal forward. But then we will inevitably end up having to deal with non-voting first. And then the Members will have to explain if they went to the bathroom at that time. It's gonna be clumsy, but... Well, yes... Well, if you want to be re-elected, it may be that it will start to pressure more and more...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U161	Thank you. Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U162	Dear colleagues, In fact, I was not going to talk about it, because most of all we can argue in this room about such empty and ingenious problems. And I see this, too, as one of them. And probably when we come to the vote on the roll of order of the Saeima in this Chamber, we will speak much more and convince each other a lot more passionate and persistently. I opened a synonym dictionary. What does it say about it? The words “abstain” are synonyms: “do not participate” (e.g. “abstain from smoking”), “abstain”, “abstain”, “abstain”, “abstain”, “abstain”, “abstain” and “abstain”. But an English explanation is very good (I will, of course, not translate it, and I apologise for the violation of the State Language Law!) Its English language is as follows: their reserved one’s opinion, their suspended one’s motion. And I came to talk, not to teach you how to read it in a dictionary, but because the Unity Group when this initiative was presented... Before it was submitted to the Saeima, the ManaBalss.lv portal interviewed political parties about their opinions, and the Unity has added its opinion, and I think it is also available there. And, of course, we can call the name of the countries where it is, or teach. Mr Latkovsky has rightly said. There is no problem with whether we are voting in favour or abstaining. The problem in all these amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the President's recommendation is that we do not debate the substance of this troupe, we do not explain our opinion, and that creates an impression, creates speculation around it. If one of the applicants, let's accept it by presenting this bill... as an example in which Members abstained from voting... The worst, worst example is the issue of Shlesser for shaking. In this vote too, a large proportion abstained. Those people climbed the hall and explained: yes, the bill has to be executed, but the documents submitted were not drawn up in such a way at that time. And definitely “Is” has already written, Ozoliņš has already trin hair and writes another... and explained why they refrained from doing so. Another recent example in which the Unity Group criticised: why is the majority of them abstaining from voting in favour of the President's initiative on ending the status of non-citizeny? They explained, but they were not heard. Yes, in the Unity Group, a very large number of Members are in favour of this status being terminated, but the way in which it was proposed is not acceptable. And where else is the example that goes out of the hall, does not vote, votes in favour or votes in favour! I am not going to talk about those beautiful populist examples that are all day long here: pensions will increase, wages will increase... not account for liability. The opposition often comes with the following proposals: In the position too, everyone knows that pensions are small and should be bigger. But at the same time, those in the government are very well aware that we need security, health and education just as well, and we need to be able to find among these priorities what we need to stand up for. And at that point, not only... I have seen my colleagues go to my constituents somewhere in the regions and show them: “Look! We already wanted to increase those pensions. You see, these were those who voted against!” And that is why we abstain. So tell me and split the whole white and black... I'm not about the whole world being white and black. There are other colors. I think we can explain whether or not we will switch off... it is important for society to understand what we are doing here and why we are doing here. The exclusion will not solve this issue. Mr Latkovsky, you are right, those people will simply take out the cards, they will not vote, and the next problem will come. Answering whether or not to add these voices somewhere. We already spoke in the working group of the Commission on the amendments to the Order Roll. Just at one point, there will be a nice instrument and there will be no quorum in this hall. Or it will suddenly turn out that the law in this room can be adopted by five or 10 votes. Just as the Saeima, at the initiative of the President, can basically be made redundant by two people, because there is no need for a quorum. There will be 51 people in the hall, 50 is needed for the sitting to be full, and at that point everyone else will not vote. But a very important law will be adopted by two or three votes. So where to count, too, is a very controversial issue. Once again, we can discuss this as if it were a very important issue, but before such a populism comes up, let us perhaps analyse why such a proposal is coming up at all. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U163	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U164	Hello, colleagues! I also call for this popular initiative to be supported and for it to continue working on it, and for it to be examined here in the Saeima. But I call for it to work on its substance, not formally. Unfortunately, we often hear in the debate, and the rapporteurs themselves have understood this: if there is no possibility of abstaining, then the problem will be resolved accordingly. But the problem, the main problem that we also have today with the voice of the people, is that the people want responsible decisions from the Members, rather than avoiding those responsibilities. The question is, will this be solved simply by removing this button "abstentions"? That is the first question. And the second, is it really possible for a Member to vote "in favour" or "no" on the order in which this happens, knowingly in the performance of his duties? I have heard the arguments of the coalition Members here. Yes, for very many it is very simple, because you already do not have to think about yourself, you have been decided on by the Coalition Council, you have no choice in principle, you simply have to push this button. Unfortunately, however, opposition Members are very often in a situation where they have received a draft law, say, last night, already after the end of the working day, and they have to vote on it next morning. Then you tell this opposition Member how to vote in favour of this bill, which he has not had the opportunity to get acquainted with and which he has not had the opportunity to discuss! Vote on such a draft or against such a draft? Unfortunately, therefore, if it is not arranged... It is not just about removing this one button, this one voting opportunity; it is about reorganising, in principle, the work of the Saeima so that indeed every draft law that comes is properly debated, prepared. But we are well aware that this will never be the case in this Saeima. Therefore, I think it would be far more correct to think, however, about how we will set up this agenda, at least this voting procedure, so that it is possible for Members who really want to take their own oath and carry out their duties responsibly and with the best of their consciousness to do so. And, unfortunately, in this situation, I see that the possibility of abstaining must remain. But it would be right to establish that this option would not affect the outcome, it would only serve the quorum. This would mean that a decision to be taken by the Saeima would be adopted by the votes for and against. That is how I see this situation. And finally, I want to say that if we... This decision on Shleser would have been taken, because the votes of these detained Members would not have had an impact on the result and we would have had a completely different result... and perhaps we would not discuss it today at all. Because, as I have already mentioned, there is, in my opinion, quite a great misunderstanding on how the Saeima works and how Members make their decision, and this reminds me of an anecdotes. ), which I will tell you to show you how it is perceived. It's a word game, it's a couple of sentences. That's anecdote in English, and I'll translate it into Latvian. ( Merry laughter.) In other words, the situation in the monastery: monks live in restraint, talk about restraint, and study... For years he has lived, studied the Holy Scriptures, and suddenly he will run into the great hall. — The Interface: “Zariņš! ” ) One of the monks, with trembled hands shows these Scriptures and says: “Guis, it says “Celebrate”, not “Celebate”!” It means that it is written, "Do not abstain, but rejoice." And that is about the level at which, I understand, this issue is being discussed at the moment, if it is simply spoken, let us take off the button of restraint. It won't solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U165	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 989 Latvian citizens “Let us liquidate the opportunity for Members of the Saeima to abstain”! Please vote mode! ( Insight: ‘ Abstain! ’) ) Please see the result. For - 80, for - 1, for - 4. So the decision has been made. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Juris Schulz that he, as rapporteur on behalf of the Commission, has erred in the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law, stating the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading. The Commission's proposal is November 9. Proposals are due by 9 November of this year. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. So the proposals for the second reading of this draft law are due by 9 November. Dear colleagues, Consequently, all items on the agenda for today's sitting have been dealt with. However, before we register, I would like to inform you that the question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, about the functions of the executive, has been answered for by Members Arthur Rubika, Tretjak, Raimonds Rubika, Mirska and Adamson. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. Member Zarina, Raimonds Rubika, Tretyakas, Arthur Rubika and Pimenova, Minister of Transport Uldis Augums, on the planned funding for the maintenance of national road infrastructure. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member of the Minister of Health of Silver, Mežecka, Kūtra, Platopera and Maya Anda Chakša “On debts in the state budget programme 33.00 “Health care provision””. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. On the question of “On Compliance of the Planning of State Budgets with Latvian Law” by Members Silver, Mežeckis, Meija, Platopers and Kūtris, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question by Members Silver, Mežeckis, Meija, Platoper and Kūtris, to the Minister of Culture Dace Melbārds, about the planning of state budget funds. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. On the question to the Minister of Agriculture Janis Dūklavs “On the Planning of State Budget Funds”. Members Silver, Mežeckis, Maya, Platoper and Kūtris point out that the written responses received do not satisfy the applicants, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. On the question to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs about the protection of the rights of minors in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Members Silver, Stepanenko, Freezers, Schiffe and Kūtris point out that the written responses received do not satisfy the applicants, but they do not wish to ask any further oral questions. Therefore, giving answers to Members' questions this evening at 17.00 here in Saeima's meeting room will not happen. However, new submissions have also been received. Members Zarins, Morozovs, Potapkins, Arthur Rubiks and others have submitted a question to Minister for Economics Arvils Aseradens “On verification of the Ministry of Economics of possible fraud in order to obtain the right to sell electricity in the framework of compulsory procurement”. Member Ivars Zarins has asked for a word to motivate the question. Please, Mr. Zarins!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U166	Thank you, thank you. The Minister has said that, with regard to these detected irregularities... a complete perimeter check is carried out on possible irregularities. Then we ask the Minister to explain what a complete perimeter means. Is he even in the course of things, how many hundreds of stations have such permits? How will they be tested? Who will check this? What documents will be submitted? And who will take responsibility for those hundreds of stations that will not be tested? Is everything okay there? We would very much like the Minister to answer these questions specifically and to have the confidence that a truly full perimeter means a full perimeter. ( Milestones.) That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U167	Thank you, Mr. Zarin. Member Ivara Zariņa, Andra Morozova, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika and Jānis Tutina's question to Minister of Economics Arvilas Aseradens about verification of the Ministry of Economy's service in relation to decisions taken regarding the right to sell electricity in the framework of compulsory procurement. On this issue too, Member Ivars Zarins has asked for the floor to be motivated. Please, Mr. Zarins!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U168	Although it would be in the interests of the economy to pursue an energy policy that restricts the OIC payment as much as possible, unfortunately, the Ministry of Economics has implemented the opposite for target years and has made little effort to extend all possible permits all the time so that there are as many of us as possible as possible of the manufacturers that can make these mandatory procurement components more and more for us. This has been pointed out many times by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Economics itself has in the past carried out a service test in relation to these decisions. Then we are asking for the results of this test to be presented and also to tell you what exactly was verified, what decisions were made and what further the Ministry has done with all these revealed facts. That is the essence of the question. This is to help our existing minister to be clear (Interface: “Time!” ), what's happening in his ministry.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U169	Thank you, Mr. Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U170	Watch right on the clock! ( Interface: “Don’t talk to the grass! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U171	The next item is the question of Members Zarina, Morozova, Potapkin, Rubika and Tutina, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, on possible illegal activities related to the production of subsidised electricity and its monitoring. With regard to this issue too, Member Zarins wishes to state the reasons for the question. Please, Mr. Zarins!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U172	In response to these irregularities, the mass media asked the Minister for Economic Affairs a number of questions, one of which was: “How could this happen?” To this, the Minister for Economics said (I quote): “It is clear that there is some administrative basis, most likely some kind of regulation and so on, which has allowed it to do so!” Then, in order to help the minister to understand what these are about the rules that should be looked at, we have prepared these questions, in which we set out concretely what questions we might have to ask his staff, so that they, these employees, finally allow the Minister to understand what these are about the rules and what they are about, what was to be done, what had to be checked, so that there would not be any such situation. And it is important that on these issues, we point out in parallel: if the Minister really wants to understand how this afex has happened, then it is important to assess not only the regulations, but also the lists that have been between the Ministry of Economics and the distribution networks and the Latvenergo Group. We very much hope that this will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U173	Thank you, Mr. Zarins. Finally, the question to the Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, Mr Jelena Lazareva, Ivan Klementyeva, Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika and Sergey Potapkin, about the acquisition of European Union funds. The question will be referred to the Prime Minister. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! And while the results of the registration are being prepared, I give the floor to Ainars Latkovsky. Mr. Latkovsky!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U174	The Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission will meet at 12.15 on the Commission's premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U175	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U176	Dear colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! The meeting of the Commission shall be held at 11.25 a.m. on the premises of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U177	Thank you. Name to the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U178	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Not registered: Gundars Many... Not in the hall, Int Dalder... I don’t see, Artuss Neighbours (Interface: “What!” )... I don't see... Oh, thank you. You're at work! Yeah, okay, let's go! Alexander Kirstein... No, John Crowd... I can't see, Gunar Curry... No, Inese Laizane... No, Sergey Mirsky... No, Inara Mūrniece... Oh, yeah, no... Igor Pimenov... No, John Ruck... I don't see, Inguna Silver... It wasn't, Mārtiņš Schics... No, Juris Vectyran... Not applicable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-19-PT12-441-U179	Thank you. As a result, I declare closed the sitting of the Saeima on October 19th this year. Nice day for you!
