ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! I call once again for seats to be held in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 14 December 2017. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. Inguna Silver, Nellija Kleinberga, Julia Stepanenko, Silvija Šimfas, Vara Krūmiņa, Mārtiņa Šica, Jānis Ruka, Ivara Brīvera, Riharda Melgailis, Jura Viļuma, Andra Morozova and Arthur Rubika are on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection to Members... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “There are objections!” ) Are Members willing to vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) We will vote to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include a request from Members Inguna Silver, Nellia Kleinberg, Julia Stepanenko, Sylvia Šimfa, Vara Krūmiņa, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Ruka, Ivars Brīvera, Riharda Melgailis, Jura Viļuma, Andra Morozova and Arthur Rubika to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis on the avoidance of regulatory obligations for the protection of the rights of minors of Latvian citizens in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the provision of false news to Members of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - 1, for - 1, for - 1. The agenda has therefore been amended and the request included on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2017”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “On the recognition of the Law “On Public Organisations and Their Associations” as forceless”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ata Lejiņš, by which he has referred to the draft law on signatures "Amendment to the law on patients' rights". Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Members have received an application signed by Members of the Saeima Laimdota Straujuma, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere and Romualds Ražuks, which withdraws from the draft decision on the supervision of the activities of the Special Interdisciplinary Commission on the Study of Documents of the State Security Committee. The draft decision is therefore excluded from the agenda of the sitting. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. The draft agenda for the Bureau reports is set out in Annex II to this Regulation. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On the declaration of force of the Law “On Public Organisations and Their Associations” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be transferred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda is the Bureau's report on the proposal for an own-initiative opinion. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – draft decision “On a collective application of 10 015 Latvian citizens “Reducing VAT on daily necessary, healthy products, increase harmful ones!” “ It Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The next item is the treatment of parliamentary requests. Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Ribakova, Jānis Urbanoviča, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Adamsona, Igora Zuvėva, Aleksandrs Jakimova and Raimonds Rubika apply to Minister of Economics Arvils Aseradens “On Inability or Avoidance of the Ministry of Economics to reply to permits and decisions to produce subsidised electricity”. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U2	Good morning! On the agenda is a request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika and the other Members mentioned to Minister for Economics Arvils Aseraden ‘On the inability or avoidance of the Ministry of Economics to respond to permits and decisions to produce subsidised electricity’. The Commission has examined this. The request was rejected by three votes for, eight against and two non-joining votes.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U3	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U4	Hello, colleagues! Now everyone knows what the composition of letters in OIC means. We all see it when we pay our electricity bills. In 2016, the total amount of OIC payments amounted to more than 237 million euros. Overall, we have already cost more than a billion euros. If this area is allowed to continue as it is now, then according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the overall burden of the OIC that we will have to pay will be more than EUR 3.7 billion. This means that we do not even have this OIC story on our side. Here's the biggest stealing of the country in the history of Latvia, with which comparing oligarchs' conversations is such a trick of little guys! This is not welcome, however, because from the very beginning the OIC has been politically covered by an afer, which is still ongoing, and those who have attached to it are still in power. This is demonstrated by the action of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. More than eight years ago, I warned the public and the then Minister of Economics about the consequences of this affluence, about how much it would cost. At that time no one wanted to believe it, because the ruling political elite, unable to disprove my arguments and calculations, acted in the increasingly usual genre: simply declared me the enemy of national energy, thus avoiding the essence of the discussion. Now my warnings have been fulfilled, and we can all see who has then been an enemy of public interest. The cost to us of this OIC sphere is known to society as a whole. However, only a few know that the cost of OIC could be significantly reduced. It is known by those who benefit from it, directly or indirectly by covering it, so it is hidden from the public. This is illustrated by the action of the existing Minister for Economic Affairs, who desperately tried to conceal his decisions on possible OIC frauds discovered by TV3 journalists. Even in violation of the Constitution, the Ministry of Economics refused to submit the documents requested by the Saeima. Only by involving the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and warning about the preparation of an application to the Office for Constitutional Protection about this action of the Ministry of Economics, managed to achieve that the Ministry of Economics was still forced to submit these documents. However, the Ministry did this in violation of the Rules of Procedure again - just coming to the sitting and putting the documents in front of us, even though we had to get to know and work before the committee meeting. Consequently, this meeting of the Appeals Commission turned into a total absurdity, into a profile. It was decided on a request whose subject - these documents - had not been seen at all, no one knew what was in them. However, this did not prevent Members of the ruling coalition from voting that these documents were all right and that the request was not justified. This is another proof that this area is still politically covered. Hardly anything like that would be possible in a country where democracy and the rule of law are more than empty words! This demonstrates that the OIC is still politically covered, and this episode - this episode! - there will be a page that will be attached to the description of the OIC, which is being prepared so that it can then be consulted and come to the conclusion of those who will have to draw these conclusions. And such conclusions will have to be drawn! Today, too, this vote will be the next page that will show what is going on in the OIC. I'll tell you what these documents contain. I have worked day and night to get acquainted with them, and most of them I have met. Most of these documents... So it is about possible fraud schemes that were discovered by TV3 journalists. This scheme looks like this. From the beginning, the Ministry of Economics decides on the allocation of disproportionate capacity - but that is a subject for discussion, we can not discuss it! -, simply allocates the capacities to be measured in megawatts. The economic operator then, on the basis that the Ministry of Economy has granted such an authorisation, applies to the Ministry of Economics to obtain, on the basis of the authorisation granted for these capacities to be measured in megawatts, a decision from the Ministry of Economics on the right to sell, once these capacities are installed, electricity from them within the framework of compulsory procurement. Once the businessman has received such a decision and support, it turns out after a while that businessman is not at all capable of fulfilling what he has promised, what is written in an administrative act. He goes back to the Ministry of Economics, and instead of complying with the administrative act, he sets up capacities that are hundreds of times smaller - so these containers. When these containers are installed, the Ministry of Economics accepts this as the fact that everything has actually been carried out and, on the basis of this decision, takes a new decision giving this operator the right to increase this capacity to the pre-defined amount of megawatts! - to be completed for a further period of five years. Why is such a scheme necessary? Such a scheme in theory enables these economic operators to retain the right to compulsory procurement that they have already granted. Although the Ministry of Economics states that it does not have any impact on the burden of OIC when making such decisions at the time of the existing Minister of Economics, it is a manifest lie, as it is evident from the documents that it would not be economically feasible to increase and operate these capacities without the aid ever promised to these operators. So, again, it's another proof... It must be concluded that the Ministry of Economics has either lost any sense of decisions it makes or is simply, grossly, misleading to the public. That's one thing. And to understand how it looks in principle, I will give you such a understandable example. That is something like that: the businessman agrees with the state that he will build an apartment house in the same and that time, but it takes time, the time is approaching, and the businessman comes and says: “You know, the apartment house that we have agreed on, I can’t build for you. I'll set up a dog like that! Is that gonna work? Will it be the same?” The Ministry of Economy says: “Yes! It will be the same!” More! The next step - the Ministry says... When the businessman asks: “But, if there's only a canine way there, I'm going to keep what you promised, so the rent for this multistorey floor... apartment houses?” The Ministry of Economics says, “Of course, you will keep everything!” You have to imagine this absurdity that is happening! Go on. It can be seen from these documents that these decisions... The Ministry of Economy has not taken the appropriate decisions that should have been taken to see that the economic operator has failed to fulfil those obligations. There is evidence of the documents submitted by the economic operator... They show you that... Although he had to start producing electricity in cogeneration within a certain period of time, the documents clearly state that the electricity produced is zero and that the heat produced is zero. Even if there is no sense at all about energy, at least mathematics should have been an elemental sense, namely, the understanding that something is wrong here. There is no action on the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Ministry said that everything is all right and made its decision: “Based on the fact that you have installed their capacity and are working, we still allow you to increase that capacity 100 times!” This is an obvious political scene that would not have been possible without the direct participation of the Ministry of Economics. These cases, shown by journalists, are just a look at a long, long train in the last wagon. However, thanks to this work by journalists, it is now possible to prove by concrete examples of how this OIC sphere has been implemented and politically covered in order to provide justification... a reasoned request for recycling and evaluation... review and evaluate everything that has been prepared so far and that has been carefully hidden from society. And if there is a political will to do so, a significant reduction in the OIC could be achieved. Unfortunately, it is obvious that there is no political will for a coalition of power. It's the other way around! - wanting to cover it all. This is reflected in both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the coalition’s vote in the Saeima on these requests in relation to the OIC field. Let us remember the last request! Then it must be shown, by the facts, that the Ministry of Economics has been involved in this field - that it has not only covered it, but has also directed it. This was not answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs. Nothing at all! However, this does not prevent the coalition of power from rejecting this request as unfounded. It is unlikely that this is a course of action for a democratic and legal state. It is clear that everything is being done to cover this area by performing all kinds of manoeuvring in order to simulate the necessary action, but that the heavy burden of OIC for Latvian society would be kept rather than significantly reduced. But the ice is broken. The first documents have been obtained, with which we will be able to prove and demonstrate to the public, how one of the largest rapes in the history of this country has been carried out, and thus to lay the foundations for investigating the entire scene. We will draw up a road map - what must be done so that the burden of this OIC can be significantly reduced. But only the active position of society will depend on whether politicians choose to follow this path. To put it more correctly, will it be forced to go this way, developing what has been done so far and what has been hidden in the tambochos? I therefore call on the public, especially the media, to actively follow developments. Because if the media follow it as actively as everything is going on in the Riga City Council, it can be said that soon we will all have to pay less for electricity. Colleagues, I am calling for this request to be supported, and I very much hope that this Saeima vote will not be another testimony, another page throughout this OIC story that it is still politically covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U5	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U6	Good morning, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would like to say three things. Firstly, the wording of the rejection of the specific request. ( Mr. Brigmann left somewhere.) Secondly, on the legal consistency resulting from the case and on the specific request. If we look at the country, we can compare it in very different ways. The Chinese compare it to the pure; we can also compare it to the house. What is the demand? The demand is the opening of a small ventilator so that the suffocated air in the space can be ventilated. At the last sitting on the KGB Investigation Commission, on the Czech bag, the majority bar tried to keep their ventilator so that fresh air would not enter. Was there no result? I thought it was. Last night, in government sitting, its commission was rudely sprayed. So we don't talk here and we don't blow in the air. There is a specific question, and we are dealing with it. If we are talking about the work of the Request Commission, then I have to say, I do not understand how you can go to work, knowing that you will not work! If you're a potter, you have to do pots. You're going to make pots. But if you know in the beginning that you won't make any pots... What do you mean, work like that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How to work in a zoo, let's say, a common animal, and you have to feed tigers, lions, snakes, but you go to work and you know you won't feed them. How is it - to work in the Commission on Petitions, knowing that all requests will be rejected and "hired"?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Whether it's a slice or an afer, as Zarins, who named himself the enemy of national energy, said to us here. He mentioned the afero on several occasions. Whether it's an afer, or they're cheque bags, everything is rejected! Consequently, the wording of the rejection of the specific request. It is cynically identical to the opinion of the same committee last week. It states: “The request made by Members must be rejected because the relevant legal provisions have not been violated in the matters specified in the request. Consequently, there is no reason to accept this request.’ Now, if the request had been made to the Minister for Agriculture, for example, about whether the land was round, they would also say that it should be rejected, because in principle there is no relevant article. What do I want to say? I looked at the statistics not only on this Saeima. Rejected requests. As we know, this will already be twenty-third. And if we look at it, the situation in the last Saeima is identical: all requests have been rejected. All right! So what is the point of such a Request Commission? I understand what the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is doing. It deals with specific issues that are truly related to human rights. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science... All commissions do something in harmony. In this commission, Members are going to work in principle, initially knowing that they will reject the issue that will be dealt with. What is the point of doing that, Mr. Brigmann?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And above all, it is included in the Treaty of Cooperation or Coalition, which is between the factions that make up the government. So they are actually isolating the institution of parliamentary control in this way. They rape parliamentary control in essence! That is not acceptable! I think that in the near future we will table an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, namely to make adjustments to the parliamentary roll in Rule 149. Solvita will refuse... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U7	Mr Baloža, on the specific request that is on the agenda! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “He talks about the request!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U8	You know, I'm going to say, "Love unemployment": "When I have money, I can't drink the sugar water. When I have no money, I am not allowed to do so!” Look, when do you talk about these things?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Separately go to talk to someone on the street? Why can I not speak from the parliamentary troupe on a specific point of view about a specific issue to be rejected? I don't understand! I think that this is simply not the right situation here. If there is no progress in demand, then we simply eliminate such requests! We will be especially in the world with no demand. But we are! Now let's score points on "i"! Why do you want Mr. Brigmann to have a salary supplement? I don't think you think so, but it's enough for you... you are a financially disadvantaged person to do such things! And so is Reuben. What's the point of doing this? Well, that's something they can pull up... Those secretaries, the chairmen's positions shall come together, the meeting shall come to an end. But I don't think that's why we have to start... ( Milestones.) Don't be happy! Why should we deal with these requests if not only they are not working but are also deliberately isolated? I am referring to the specific request. Mr Zarins described this situation in a very imaginative and beautiful way, repeatedly calling it an afero. He already gave a whole bunch of documents yesterday, and I tried to really go into the field. The only thing that really got me there was the decision written by Mr Puce, which was generally legally correct, but, of course, at the very root of it, there is a flash of afēra. But I wanted to talk more about the fact that we have to stop starting. Let's take care of this! Because I do not believe that the working group set up by Mrs Āboltiņa, which has really worked and made good amendments... that they're going somewhere... You will dig it down and everything will go worse than it is. Therefore, I really call on you to think and support, for example, this request. But I also ask you to think about the point... We do not need to have parliamentary procedures, we need to put them into practice! If the law says there is a request, then it must be examined rather than automatically rejected at the very root. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U9	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U10	Good morning, Mrs. Moore. 23 requests - 23 requests! - In this parliamentary term, Brigmanis has rejected it. 23 Requests Have Also Been! Obligations of political groups and political groups in the coalition treaty... Here is the following point: “Do not propose and support Members' requests, proposals for distrust to the Cabinet of Ministers...” I believe that changes are needed in the parliamentary order circle - this commission must be abolished. The added value of this commission is minus 10! In this case, only taxpayers' money is spent: 800 euro bonus - one of the leaders, 300 euro - for Ribena. In addition, there are certain expenses of the commission itself, such as, let us assume, the payment of the protocol, which helps us to do all of this. In this case, of course, Mrs Mūrniece may try to stop me and say that we have to talk about the demand. Is that...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U11	Do not talk to the Chair of the sitting or comment on the Head of the sitting! Just keep going...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U12	No one's talking to you, whatever you want. I really don't talk to you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U13	... continue the debate. You will be deprived of your name.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U14	It's been a long time. This demand is a matter of public opinion, journalists have imagined criminals themselves, found, arsoned, shown to the public... And now this news is coming specifically about the OIC - please give us the answer, Minister concerned. But this is a buffer commission here - it is simply a buffer so that this issue does not go forward. It is specifically designed for that! Absolutely! And now those who speak... This one is Brigman, and the other is, of course, Reindeer with its 300 euro premium. That is the situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena: "You've come to the commission once?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) I believe that changes are needed in the parliamentary order. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena: “Come to the commission once! You have never been there!” ) This commission is not required. You have rejected 23 - 23! - requests, and today will be 24. - taking children away from Latvians living abroad. That's request 24! And that is something that you will “depreciate” and it will not be supported only for that reason! - that you are told: 'Do not propose and support Members' requests...' Those in the coalition groups, in the coalition - they must not do so, whatever the demand may be! This is an abnormal situation. This is an abnormal situation - what you are doing here! Did you elect one another here? You've been elected here by the public, by the voters! After all, Mrs Barch, maybe you could only have received one voice for yourself - your own, and that's it. But it couldn't be that Brigman went and voted for Barch. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Be calm!” ) No, he couldn’t! You couldn't elect each other in here. You must therefore support the public interest, in this case this request for an OIC. After an hour, there will be a demand for children taken out of Latvian families in England and Ireland. Or, let's assume, last time it was about the commission, about the check bags. And the block all the time! Where's Shoff sitting? Good morning! So what's going on... To have a full insight into what this commission is doing. So, then, the Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Dep. I.Rijana: “If you had come to the committee meeting sometime, you would know what's going on there!” ) agenda: on... ( I'm sorry, I'm going to get over the frame.) So the agenda is on 6 September. The work of the panel during the autumn session. The meeting is chaired by Mr Brigmanis, who is not unusual, and he presents Members with the Commission's main and organisational issues. Well, as it happens. And then they decided. What did they decide? They decided to do so at that meeting: “At the next meeting of the Commission, consider the issue of what is happening in real policy (Interface: Talk on the subject!” ) vis-à-vis poor families and their growing children’. ( Insight: “On OIC speaks! ” ) Mr. Brigmann! Your grandchildren live in England. The next request will be... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The next request will be for children.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U15	Mr. Neighbours, please return to the present request. Once you have the next request on the agenda, you will be able to talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U16	Yes, of course. Solvita Aboltiņa while you're still in the Saeima...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U17	Don't talk to the grass! Please return to the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U18	We may be so good, we open that parliamentary roll again. We should make changes so that these commissions are no longer present. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “It’s not about the demand!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U19	Please, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U20	Please support this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U21	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U22	Reflecting on the discussions around this request and not only, I would like to explain why I am speaking in a picturesque and illustrative manner, because some of the information has been submitted as limited information, so I did not refer in this request to a particular firm, concrete facts, but I did tell in principle how all this has happened, in order not to give any reason to interpret that I do not understand with the proper treatment of secrets and admission I would not have come to. That's one thing. The other thing. Those documents, Mr Baloža, which I have shown you, are publicly available, these are the decisions of the Ministry of Economics, from which you as a lawyer can see this legal absurdity, as the OIC's sphere has been created. If we're talking about technical matters. You want specific things, and I will mention them to you now. Let's say, one businessman requests permission in his application... requires State aid in the form of compulsory procurement. He assures us that he has installed a back-pressure steam turbine at power levels of three megawatts. The following documents show that he did not do anything in the time he had promised. He has installed 10 kilowatts of capacity, i.e. 300 times less. What is amusing in all this situation without going into the legal details, just looking at the technical side? As an energy-operated man, this solution seemed very strange to me, but I think maybe I don't know anything? Perhaps, in fact, the Ministry of Economics does not provide us with this information because it has made mega-disclosure in energy. Colleagues! Perhaps we have our own Nokia invented, only in energy! We have found a technology that, with a capacity of 10 kilowatts, can deliver the same efficiency that can be achieved with three megawatts. I contacted experts in this field, professors, energy doctor. I asked: is it possible that such a technology could exist - a vapour back pressure turbine with a capacity of 10 kilowatts, which is capable of providing all this? In my answer, I heard from the beginning a lack of understanding of silence, and I felt that these people were trying to just correctly comment on what I asked them... or just heard hysterical laughter about it. But perhaps, perhaps really, the Ministry of Economics hides from us a discovery that is at least worth Nobel's premiums in physics. That is why the Minister for Economic Affairs has not arrived today, who avoids making any comments on these issues. In this case, the Ministry of Economics seemed to be fine. This is just one example of how absurd it is, how obvious it is that these decisions have been unlawful and not in line with the interests of society. And if you're going to reject this request today, just one of the coalitions come here on the platform and tell me why this request is not justified. Otherwise, you will simply confirm that this is still a politically covered area so that it can continue. And it will be, as I said, the next page of the story that is being prepared for this aero, so that those who will need to evaluate it all can appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U23	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U24	Congratulations, colleagues, but again, welcome! On this particular request, I wonder why the Request Commission does not allow any request to be turned into a question. The last time it happened, it was at the 8th Saeima when... 19 requests in the 8th Saeima... There were 22 requests in total (Dep. I.Zariņš intermediates.) Mr. Zarins, don't talk to the speaker! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Zarin, don’t stop!” ) At the 8th Saeima, 22 requests were considered; 19 were rejected and three were transformed into issues. Why, at the moment, the Management Board... and the management of the last Saeima Request Commission... I didn’t see who was there (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “The same Brigmanis!” ) was the manager... Why don't you even let me change things? There would be something to ask you about. Why, then, did Asheraden create such a situation? Why has your former party member Puce made such decisions? Instead, we choose not to talk about these important issues... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “Puce has never been a member of Unity!” ) We choose... Well, yeah, the parties changed there... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “He has never been a member of the Unity! Never!” ) Can I listen to what the hall is talking about? I'm interested! Can I listen?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U25	Mr Baloža, continue the debate. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U26	So... There's so many friends around here! You're taking me off with your notes from the grass and from the back. So I want to say to you that the assessment, if we are talking about the Panel's opinions... Yes, and Mr. Brigmann can call me late or call me unknown in some way - I don't care! If my people have been elected, I have to endure these remarks and these things. I would like to say that evaluation is a choice between beneficial and harmful. But there's no choice for the Request Commission here. That committee rejects any request at its very root and does not even allow any question to be asked. I ask for support for Mr Zarina's written request and for other requests as well. And I'll tell you how... The devil knows in which party now the Viņķelis is already... I will say in the same way as Viņķele said from this troupe: “I’ll climb the troupe every time there’s something unethical!” I think she said that about the village. I will say this: every time there is a demand, I will climb into a platform to remind you that it is not good to work like this. So thank you for your attention. We're going on. Let's go!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U27	I closed the debate. Will Mr. Brigmanis add something on behalf of the Panel?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U28	I am addressing colleagues who obviously have very little understanding of parliamentary working practices... Yeah, with my honourable colleagues from both wings. I would like to invite them to a meeting of the Request Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Ryban: “What have they never done!” ) All these decisions are not personalized, they are not taken by Brigmanis, Ribene, or Zarins or anyone else (Interface: “Cally!” ), but they are accepted collectively by all our colleagues. But I think it's probably redundant, both for the village and for the Balodis to explain it. It’s better to come and see how we work. , not from the side to the side to talk. So what I can tell you, colleagues, is a collective decision. The Panel is working and the decision is now to reject this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Ribakova, Jānis Urbanoviča, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Adamsona, Igora Zujeva, Aleksandra Jamikova and Raimonds Rubika's request to the Minister for Economics Arvils Aseraden "On the Inability or Avoidance of the Ministry of Economics to reply to the requests for permissions to produce subsidised electricity and decisions"! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Symfa, Platoper – “for”!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 46, refraining from - 4. (Applause) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) The request is rejected. On the agenda - request from Members Inguna Silver, Nellija Kleinberga, Jūlia Stepanenko, Silvia Šymfas, Vara Krūmiņa, Mārtiņa Šica, Jānis Ruka, Ivara Brībera, Riharda Melgailis, Jura Viļuma, Andra Morozova and Arthur Rubika to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis "On avoidance of regulatory obligations for the protection of the rights of minors in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the provision of false news to Members of the Saeima". Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U30	Colleagues, the Request Commission considered the request made by Inguna Silverba, Nelli Kleinberg, Julia Stepanenko and other Members to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On avoidance of regulatory obligations for the protection of the rights of minors in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the provision of false information to Members of the Saeima.” I can say with full responsibility that there was no avoidance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at this meeting of the Commission, and responses were also given. In this regard, Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, took part in the meeting of the Commission, which provided comprehensive information on this situation. The debate was strong enough and sufficiently constructive and the request was rejected by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U31	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U32	Good morning, honourable colleagues! First of all, the very nature of the demand and why it was created. As you can see, the request is addressed to the Prime Minister. At first, we asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs because we believe that we hear information from the mass media, broadcast a live interview with our Ambassador in the UK, who is being expressed... Well, how to find the mildest words... relatively cynical attitude towards our citizens, and the ambassadors were unable to name concrete information on how the embassy is involved in defending citizens' rights of interest, which seems very worrying to us. And when we received the answers from the Foreign Minister, we saw that it was, to put it mildly, the avoidance of the substance of the answer. The answers are incomplete or not at all. What's worse? Answers contain information... The information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is different from that provided by the Ministry of Justice. And we thought it was essential to ask the Prime Minister how he evaluates this situation, how he evaluates the work of the diplomatic service, how our institution evaluates the ability of our institutions to truly defend the interests of our citizens. Because, as you know, the Saeima was particularly important in this matter. It is not for nothing that the Saeima has adopted a special declaration that draws our institutions' attention to and brings responsibility for protecting the interests of our minors abroad. Once again, we see that something is completely past the way in which documents are being conducted in the Prime Minister's office, because it is not possible to receive the Prime Minister's answers to any of our questions or to any of our requests. Here you are asked for the Prime Minister's assessment, the Prime Minister's opinion, and once again not the Prime Minister's opinion and the Prime Minister's assessment, but the same institution's answers, which we ask the Prime Minister to evaluate. Now on the request itself or, as you say here, on the decision taken by the Request Commission. I would like to ask for a number of options that are used to formulate the opinion of the Request Commission. Because using the same sentence at all times, i.e. ‘the provisions of the law in question have not been infringed in the matters specified in the request’... you at least read what the request is about, because in this request we do not value any rules of law. In this request, we ask the Prime Minister for his assessment of the Ministry's actions, the failure to provide information and the treatment of the Foreign Minister and his bodies when communicating with Members. I would very much like to hear from the Committee on Petitions or its chairman about the rules of the law. Perhaps in this respect, the Request Commission can improve its work by including the substance of the case in the wording of the decision. At least there would then be little confidence that at least we have read the request that we have made to the Appeals Commission. I strongly support the idea that the Saeima should not formally maintain institutions that do not actually exercise parliamentary control, because any initiatives or possibilities to exercise parliamentary control have been almost eliminated in the Latvian Parliament. If the Request Commission, as an institution, is just formal, straight after, then we'd better liquidate it and not waste taxpayers' money! I ask you to support our request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U33	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U34	Dear colleagues, The situation is really tragic. I have to talk about the demand, but... The situation has been that for two years representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs came to the Saeima Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission and listened to our stories about how children are removed from the families of Latvian citizens in Europe. Listen to me a little more carefully than it may be! Every day, every day! - Latvia has one airBaltic flight to Luton (the city in England). Every day 33 people leave our country with all their belongings to travel abroad. Every day 33 people leave our country! Two are coming back. Every day two return, leave - 33. Now listen even more carefully! This request is about England and Ireland: 33 children last year have been taken out of the families of Latvian citizens. And now forget that you are in a coalition or opposition! There is now a request from Mr Kučinska to control what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing, because the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry, Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica, could not give us these answers. What did we, as Parliamentaries, do in the relevant Saeima Commission - the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs? Two years ago, we agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that they would create tracts that there would be booklets for people who left elsewhere. It is in England that they will have access to some kind of material so that they can understand what they can do, what they can't do, some kind of instruction, because they just don't know it. The rules differ there. There's a lot more drastic. You can't leave your baby there for two minutes, because there's a whole system of how they get out of the family right away, so he's even supposed to be in three different families in England in a month. With Julia Stepanenko a year ago, miraculously, we managed to save two children and bring them back here in Latvia. The Ministry of Justice has changed. The Ministry of Justice begins to work with these people in England, begins to do... There are two girls in the barter court who really do God's work: they go to England, to Ireland and defend those people, those Latvian citizens, in those courts. However, this is not done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not even... they do not represent our citizens in those courts. And imagine how it is - to be in a court hearing in English! I understand that maybe some of you do not understand American English, but English is even more difficult. And imagine – a court in English! There is a need to understand very correctly every legal aspect. And when your rights don't represent anyone and take your child away, your offspring, because you just don't know that right, and it's not... And then you go and fight. Wonderfully, we saved two children. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Ryban: "Yes, you did it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “The situation is that the Ombudsman has set out his tracts at the airport “Riga”. They are somewhere where once there was a turn left to the toilets, well, in such a small, small place behind all those tax-free shops... Well, that's where it's placed. Here are some tracts from which visitors can get some information. But the Ministry promised us, we have written in the resolution... the resolution states that these booklets should be available. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not created such booklets. Baiba Braze, who is Ambassador to England... And England is the country where the most recent Latvian and Latvian citizens are. Most! At the same time she is also the non-resident Ambassador to Indonesia. Seems too little, obviously work too little. You must now vote not as a coalition in the treaty... Please vote, please can we get answers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! There's people's lives here, in this request! They have been given the money. They're... Mrs Braže said that four children had been removed last year. She does not know the “area”! How can Neighbours know better about the “area” about the Ambassador of Latvia to England?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, She doesn’t know the “area”, she answers: four. And that's what she said in the mass media. So she lied. Whether she lied or not, this request will clarify it. The Ombudsman has also asked to support this whole, i.e. to arrange the case with the children who left. But the thing is that the Saeima's task is simply not fulfilled. That is the most important thing. Because the resolution was adopted, the funds were given. Where's the money left? Maybe it is? I don't know. Is Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica here today? None. She could come and tell. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “Why didn’t you listen yesterday to what we talked yesterday?” ) In any case, they are 33 children. 33 Children! We're talking about England. There is Ireland. Please, colleagues, whatever I do not like you, support this proposal... not the proposal, but the demand! ( Internouncing call.) If I like it, you know... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U35	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U36	Dear colleagues, I will also try to outline to you something that does not really satisfy the applicants in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and why we spoke to Mr Kučinski. As Mr. Kaimiņa said, you have no secret about how many people we have gone to the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland every day. And according to the information provided by the Ministry of Justice, every year about 20-25, 33 children are already in the sight of social services or are taken out of the family. Forced adoption, that is, without parental consent and also without Latvian consent, five children have been handed over until 2016, a new number has already arrived. Those who claim that the removal of children is a cost to parents for non-compliance with the laws of their country, to talk about their confiscated car. The child removed in a foreign country without relatives suffers the same - whether removed reasonably, or removed unreasonably. And the task of Latvia is to ensure that the interests of the child, the needs of the child close to and intelligible with the environment are ensured in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. When a child gets into a situation in a foreign country where he does not know the relatives of the child, the needs of the child's language, attachment, Latvia becomes involved and helps the child to find relatives or, in the worst case, a foster family with the child's closest culture, identity. That should be the case, it is the parliamentary declaration that we unanimously adopted on 28 January 2016. Unfortunately, there are still situations where the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations is violated and Latvia is not notified of the removal of a child in good time if it is a citizen of Latvia. Each child removed - these are at least five six court hearings for about one year and a folder of eleven materials. I'll just give you an illustration. Let us simulate the situation so that absolutely everyone in this room, as well as the public, can understand what it is about. She, Anna, is two years old (names are completely ingenuated, and the situation is ingenuated), has been taken out of her family and placed in a family unknown to her in the district of Leeds. Anna is bad, she can speak only in Latvian and doesn't understand anything from what's going on. She misses her mother and does not understand what she, Anna herself, has committed. Anna has an opitis and a momma, a nurse and a cross-mother Baiba, where Anna visited last Christmas and called regularly on a slip. Latvia knows that the mother of the cross can take care of Anna, the mother of the cross has an apartment with a kindergarten in Riga, she is a music teacher, she has never been even administratively punished and, according to a careful assessment of the orphanage court, ideal to spend a few months with Anna at her cross-law Baiba, while the mother is judged by the British court. I think you will all agree with me that Latvia, asking her to hand over her to her mother Baiba, takes care of the environment appropriate to the child's, Anna's, rights and child's identity. Fear will read the fairy tales of Anna Imants Ziedonis, both will play with dolls and will go for joint walks along the sea. But it will not always be easy for Anna to pass this right on to her mother-in-law Baib. Latvia must pass through several court hearings and sometimes even become party to the case. All this hard work is currently done by the Ministry of Justice together with the Latvian orphan court, but there is also the third participant who has worked in a team with the Ministry of Justice and the orphan court by the end of 2016 - it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the appearance of the Latvian Embassy. It is an embassy which, in accordance with the Vienna Convention, has the right and the duty to stand up for the interests of its nationals. The Embassy used to observe such proceedings and to monitor that the rights of the child were respected by providing letters of support to Latvia's position in the courts - supporting Anna's transfer to Baiba as soon as possible. The participation of the Embassy of Latvia in courts - in cooperation with active work of the Ministry of Justice and orphanage court - has helped to return to home country for several families. This has been the case until the end of last year. Now this third member of the team has decided to stop doing nothing to the benefit of the children. What has changed? For a year in the United Kingdom, there has been a new ambassador - Baiba Braž - to ensure that you have the right to “refut” all requests to participate in the court. At the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs produced a paper that will allow the Embassy to figure out when to participate in the court, and the criterion will be discrimination. Until now, during the year, neither the arrest of a minor, nor the appearance of bruising on a child's body in a foster family (by the way, it also concerns the Latvian Ombudsman!) there has been no discrimination, in the opinion of the embassy. Contrary to everything we heard yesterday in the Commission, this paper, which allows the embassy to practically withdraw from this team's work, was not agreed with any of the members of the team - neither the Ministry of Justice nor the orphan's court. The official reply of the Ministry of Justice of 9 November 2017 shows to me that there has not been a request for harmonisation, which has been regulated by the Law on State Administration Structure. It is a pity that the Members believed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had said that it had been a matter of urgency to rescue children quickly, that there was no time for regulatory harmonisation. Yes, you wanted to jump from these duties so quickly that there was no time to think about the procedure. It is therefore sad, colleagues, to see how Members are being misled, because paper does not yet mean work. As in this case, paper means a derogation from their responsibilities. From the information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from the data I have at my disposal, the Embassy's participation in the courts and any involvement in children's affairs were completely suspended with Baiba Braže's entry into employment. At the same time, the Ambassador knows to give her assessment of the families from which children were removed, condemning them in public space, giving an interview in the LNT programme “900 Seconds” on October 5th of this year. The fact that the ambassador did not know how to name the number of children removed from families this year is also no wonder. But it may have been fair to say: “I don’t know this area! We gave up these responsibilities, and I don't care what happens to Latvian citizens! It's an unthankful and chained job! I'd better go decorate the tree!” Nor is it surprising that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is unable to name what seminars and how many people are informed about aspects of children's rights in the UK. It is no wonder that the Members were given general, avoidable and inaccurate answers to questions about how the Ministry executes laws, the Saeima declaration, the Vienna Convention and how cooperation with other institutions in Latvia and the UK is ensured. Yesterday in the Commission, the representative of the Ministry tried to justify the incompetentness of the Embassy by the fact that the figures and records are not the most important when it comes to the number of children: “The Embassy works to be the result.” That was her name. Public grumbling about the misfortune of parents and expressing subjective assessments in the media is the only visible result of the Ambassador's performance, for which the figures are not the main. Since the Ambassador is entrusted with all sensitive information about citizens, it is not known what public assessment she will give to those who have asked for protection next time. The lack of competence in combination with subjective attitudes and the unwillingness to work can cause great harm to our nationals abroad. And it is bad that both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mr Kučinski support this attitude by rejecting this request. In the request, we ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to improve the policy of protecting children's rights - to abolish the fast-start paper that relieves the Ministry of its responsibilities and to assess the suitability of diplomatic staff such as Baiba Braže. Within 45 minutes, Members took a decision which you can read - it is attached to the agenda: the rules of the law have not been respected, and the request must be rejected. But you will not find the reasoning and the Ministry's answer to our request. Members who have not been present at the Commission's sitting will now have to take a decision in the vote on the basis of a debate, a personal attitude towards the applicants, as well as a coalition agreement. However, an objective examination of the issue is, in essence, denied to Members. It will be the blind vote, colleagues. The Prime Minister also showed disrespectful opponents without sending his representative to a commission meeting to see the request addressed to him. It was not for nothing that this request was addressed to Mr Kučinska. By order of the Prime Minister, a special inter-institutional working group has been set up, working with child rights protection problems abroad, and a number of positive legislative changes had already been made. I want to think that we have a strong Prime Minister who has a strong position on demographic issues. At least he has declared it. I hope he cares about all the children of Latvia wherever they are. And if the Foreign Ministry exists outside the framework of law and conventions and the Prime Minister is unable to influence it, then it is urgent to think about other government solutions that will provide an effective mechanism for protecting children's rights abroad. May Mrs. Braže continue to enjoy life and decorate the tree. We're not gonna bother him anymore. Participation in court, strengthening Latvia's position. None. Informing parents about aspects and differences of children's rights. None. The development of a family network. None. All these responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have not been fulfilled. The Embassy's interest in Latvian citizens. None. In our opinion, the Ministry does not comply with the statutory tasks, avoids fulfilling its duties, and the Minister has also provided false information to Members. The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has failed to prove the opposite with the facts. That is why we are maintaining our demand and we are calling for it to be supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U37	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U38	Hello! At first, I invite Members to look at and read their plate: “The sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia.” That's the first. Next thing I want to say to you. The people of the elections delegated this power to us, the leaders of the people. And next. The Ministry is only an executive institution that is realising what we have been tasked with as a leader of the people. The Ministry is only an executive authority. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also an executive institution representing the interests of the Republic of Latvia and its citizens abroad. In my life, I had the privilege of cooperating with the Swiss Embassy and Ambassador to travel his residence. And according to this experience, after this cooperation I have had the impression of some of our Foreign Ministry's staff. They can be described by the following Russian saying: The makeup of the vnazi. From the mud in the Lords. I have the feeling that some officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs believe that their main job in embassies is not to wash their hands for months after taking part in high receptions, and they do not have any other duties. I have also come across the fact that the request to represent the interests of the Republic of Latvia and the interests of its citizens in embassies is perceived with such total interest: “What do you need? Get out of here!” I would also like to say one good word about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: that I am very grateful to them that they have not received my question with nirs lately: “What will the Republic of Latvia and its citizens benefit from the economy?” This is a great achievement. Thank you very much to Mr Rinkēvičs for putting an end to this matter. But issues that affect the interests of Latvian citizens, especially children's interests abroad, are still perceived with a total lack of interest. I fully support the fact that we arrange the executive power, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that it is an instrument by which we can realise the interests of the Republic of Latvia and its citizens' interests, not an institution where taxpayers' money is spent to participate in receptions and sophisticated negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U39	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U40	Hello, fellow Members, again! All these kids look at us, either they're Anna or they're like that. My sister is in England, and her husband and I have moved there, and their three children are there. They won't come back here. I do not know if the Members of the Panel of Petitions who reject this issue have any children. I think it is. What's the matter with you at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, All right, I understand the coalition Treaty. We sit here and act as if in the interests of our own party, but what parties? There is a people of Latvia out! And basically, these people have gone not only for economic reasons. I could ask everyone in this centenary, “Why do you work?” - “To serve the people.” Most think of money earning or peeling something quietly. But so people will leave not only because they don't pay here. They don't feel the love of the country. Ask anyone! They don't feel they're loved here. And those children, their children, are mostly grown up in England. And basically we're talking about what? The fact that the Request Commission has, in principle, held discussions. I understand Mr. Brigmanis says: “Yes, we talked there... “ Although I realize from Julia’s words that there was no such discussion. That their answers were no and that they were. — Dep. I.Rijana: “But you could come and listen!” ) was completely past. But the question is... ( Internouncing call.) Talk from where you go! You can do that. I do it myself sometimes. So if we are talking about this work of the Petitions Commission - yes, formally it has been done. But... What is public demand? Questions and requests: they are very close to standing instruments of parliamentary control. The demand is basically a request for a particular minister: let it come and tell us what he has or has not done here! He has to be able to tell. If we allow him to live in a comfort zone and don't let him talk because he's afraid because he can talk, he can't really say something like that, or that he doesn't really understand what he's talking about, or that it can just turn out that it's right for those members of the opposition, then... Well, that's shame! I really think the Latvians of England are looking at us. And it can be said: “Kinkevičs is a cool guy in every way, and he works well.” But this is about something else. The fact that we show in public this way is that we do not love you and that we do not love your children either.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U41	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U42	Dear colleagues, I will not be able to read the fairy tale about Anna, and I will only be able to tell you about the discussions that had taken place within the Appeals Commission and how the request was answered, and why the Members of the Appeals Commission decided that the request should be rejected. The grounds for this request are defined as the Minister’s avoidance of compliance with the statutory obligations. Consequently, we had to be very scrupulous about what international laws, international conventions and regulations of the European Union oblige us, Latvia, as a Member State, to do something through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Justice. And we took it very carefully. We have assessed both the implementation of the Vienna Convention and the implementation of the Regulation. I, too, can only regret the fact that only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had responded to this request. There should also have been a reply from the Ministry of Justice, because the central authority under the Regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility and the Regulation... The repeal of the previous regulation is precisely the Ministry of Justice. And it is the Ministry of Justice that is the only institution which, according to the Vienna Convention, can be represented in court proceedings on substance and not just to participate as an observer. We really listened to certain information, although the Foreign Ministry was so correct and asked about the fate of these children... either not to raise such an embarrassment and not to talk about specific cases, but to talk about the problem. Ask us, too, to get involved as Members when we go abroad and tell our families more about how important it is for children not to leave without supervision that no violence is any squander! - are not tolerated in any country. Unfortunately, in Latvia, the law lays down only the fact that the child cannot be left unattended, but the orphan's court tends to close the eyes, and we often find it too late - when the parents have longed children under the influence of alcohol or drugs and have died. In other countries, however, this is not the case. There, these authorities are reacting right away! I will read a passage of the answers so that it is not that Mr Baloža believes only in Mrs Stepanenko. Perhaps Mr Baloža may listen to what he said on setting up a network of foster families: "The issue of protecting the rights and interests of minors, including applying for the status of a foster family, has been discussed in many, even ten, meetings with the Diaspora. The Embassy maintains close contact with 36 country associations, including 18 weekend schools and the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church in Great Britain, and asks Latvian families to apply for foster families.” But, you know, where is the problem, why don't Latvian families apply (and we can't condemn them)? If you apply in England as a foster family, you cannot be a foster family for children of Latvian origin only: you are a foster family, just the same as all other foster families in Great Britain, and if you need to put a child in the family - whatever its origin, whatever skin color - that child in England will have to take. The families cannot choose! Therefore, to create a foster family Latvians are very, very sad: they do not want to become a foster family precisely because they will have to take all children. That can be understood. But we can invite and call again and call again to become foster families, because it is at least a statistical possibility that one of the Latvian children will enter the Latvian foster family. Of course, this is a huge problem. The other thing. I really hope that we will talk here, from this troop, about the quality of the orphan courts as well. At present, several of these trials have been attended by orphan courts, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs especially praised Riga's orphan court, which is the largest and therefore has more qualified staff. But when you have to ask your orphanage's opinion from other places in Latvia, this orphan's opinion is unfortunately very unqualified, and the English court does not take this into account, because quite simply the quality level does not match. Perhaps we have to think, and this is the responsibility of us as Members and, more specifically, of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, that we are dealing with foreign countries... It may not be necessary to delegate to regional orphan courts the representation of these children, but a single qualified body representing these children should be established. It is not that an employee of orphan courts, who may never have been outside Latvia, suddenly comes to the English court and - yes, as Mr. Kaimiņš said - has to speak good English and understand, and represent in that situation. That can't be done! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is an intermediary. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be the Ministry which shall notify the Ministry of Justice of cases in its sight. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also ensures that there is support to the Ministry of Justice and information is provided to the orphan's court. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides support by finding a lawyer, because it needs a lawyer and not a diplomat at this hearing; it also makes sure that legal support is available. Where necessary, financial support shall also be sought to enable the lawyer to be found. And only if all these things are not working and it is really obvious that the English court could, perhaps in other ways, differentiatedly deal with the case in question - only then, as an observer, sits at that hearing. It's like a second with a watch, sits and looks. That diplomat may not speak. Only a representative of the Ministry of Justice or a representative of a family court may speak there. You know, each of these processes must also have prior authorisation - to be an observer. If we are here talking from this troupe about these specific cases, then let us be precise, Mrs Stepanenko! We are both students and are very well aware of legal matters, so we should not deceive colleagues here and say that a representative from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can perform miracles in the English court. You can't make miracles! He may sit only as a second and only record what is happening in the court, communicate with the Ministry of Justice and ask the Ministry of Justice to act. I think it is very good that we are talking about this. It is very good that ministries work together. Currently, at 12.00, an inter-institutional cooperation document is concluded, involving both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ombudsman's Office, the Children's Law Protection Inspectorate and orphan courts. They are even more committed to working together, not only in the case of Great Britain and Ireland. We also have very problematic situations in Scandinavia, where no violence against the child is tolerated. We must explain this to Latvian citizens again, again and again: do not do it outside the borders of the country and, please, do not do it within the borders of Latvia! Maybe we should think that we should be as harsh here and not tolerate it, and then children's well-being and childhood would be better. Why do we think that if a child is left unattended for just two minutes, everything is all right? It's not okay! No one, no three minutes, honourable colleagues! And I really ask you not to change all the requests. This specific request was addressed to the Commission in a very detailed manner. Believe me, all members of the Petitions Commission are very concerned about what is happening to Latvian children. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “But don’t look!” ) There is no single Member without a heart and with no emotions, who would at least have the fate of one child. I cannot support this request because there are only factual errors. There is only and only a personal dislike for one particular ambassador (I can only mention why), and that is all! A very emotional displeasure, which I heard several times yesterday at the Panel on Petitions and which I heard several times today during the debate! For my part, I can only be grateful that Latvian diplomats with very small human resources and very small financial resources do what they do abroad. We Members can only ask how we can support and help. In my opinion, it should also be supported that here in Latvia, representatives of orphan courts, who would represent the interests of children in England or other courts later, would be more specific; that it should direct the funds and that it should not remain on the shoulders of the municipality, but should be under the state's authority. Perhaps we will come together and think about it, and we will invite our institutions to cooperate more. And in every interview - whether it's an ambassador's interview or a Member's interview or a minister's interview, no matter which media channel, let's talk first of all about how many children should love, not how many drinks are allowed, how many minutes a child can be left unattended and how many glasses of alcohol can be drunk in the presence of a child, so that he can get a little light on it, because it doesn't make any sense to the child! Dear people, think with your head! Thank you. I'm sure I'll be back here in the platform, because I'll definitely be able to hear a lot of interesting things in the future. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U43	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U44	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! I listened carefully to all these previously spoken speeches - unlike the majority of those in the hall, especially those sitting on that beach. (The Unity of the Group and the Group in the direction of VL-TB/LNNK shall be manually indicated.) Disgusting facts. There is no counter-argument. If only, as we have just heard from Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, is there not a legally correct application or fairy tales were told. To be honest, I didn't mean to climb the trigger. Mr Baloža and I took a few words first. Tell me, what? We're talking for half an hour now, for more than half an hour, and what's the point? In such cases, we may not even have to look at the request panel decision. As the buttons will now be pressed, it seems to me that everyone is clear. Now we will have talked, maybe there will be an article by Delfos that not too good Members, as they say, have tried to blacken the Latvian light image abroad. What is the point of all this? See, and that's why... How can public interest be attracted? I'm not ready for it right now, but I got that idea in my mind. The only solution would probably be to involve the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Applications. And how? There is an interest in the mass media. They usually come there. And here's what I said, maybe get up again and try... but it is difficult for me to do this: to make certain personal insults to these shameless people, to these ambassadors who represent Latvia abroad and who, as well as Mr. Kaimiņa said, are basically less aware of their work than we are here in the Saeima. I don't know, I guess the only chance is... I will consider and express my personal insult to the Ambassador of Latvia in the UK to sue me to the Mandate, ethics and application commission, then maybe the public will start to be interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U45	The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U46	We're talking about business right now. In order to understand how this business works, I will try to tell you. If you take it out... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “Expert!” ) Yes, Reindeer, expert. If a child is taken out, it is not important in this case whether it is a Lithuanian, Latvian or Polish family in England. If this child is taken out, there is interfamily adoption, a family full of various children, children of various races. This family weekly for one of this small trigger gets 250 pounds. They can get a tax credit of up to 10 thousand pounds per year. These families usually have more than three small jets. And then those sparks spread about two weeks through that family. They get their 500 pounds for two weeks, and then he goes further to the next adoption of the foster. In principle, there are three families. If we now simply say, according to statistics and facts, 33 - 33 again! - the children have been removed specifically in England within a year, so obviously something doesn't work! Something doesn't work! Well, it can't be that you've left them there for two minutes or in the worst cases you've always been under the influence of alcohol, as you say. I'm sure this business really does its job very professionally to take children out. Because if a person doesn't know his rights, he can't defend his offspring. And that's the situation that this request asks... Tell me, please, about the taxpayers' money that has been given to you, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, what have you done? Can you please ask the kings what you have done for the money that we have given you? Tell me, you had seminars? Did you have it? Yes, there were seminars. Very good. Tell me how many families attended these educational seminars? Do you have any statistics? Just answer me, please. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena: “Come to the Request Commission and listen!” ) I don’t understand what you’re getting from that end. This is a question of Latvian children abroad who simply disappear from our country, who have been cheated out of our families. I regard it as a fraud. A very high percentage. It's not a good thing. It's not a good thing. Because these people just don't know how to defend themselves. Here you are not asked to press the button that 33 children will return. No, such miracles don't happen! Here you are asked, Request Commission... Brigman, whose own grandsons live in England... All grandchildren live in England! Well, but call your daughter and ask her how it is! What is it that is being asked for? We ask for simple answers. We ask and ask for answers. How many seminars have they attended? Tell them how they have informed these parents? A member of the board of my party is a member of the board of “Daugavas Vanagu” in England, and he knows this already discussed Ambassador Broži... Braze... How was her name, apologies? What was her name? She's recently working. Braze, yeah. He knows him very well! She attends these culinary events with the Diaspora when she is not in her Indonesia, and everything happens. But there's no personal talk. It's not about personals right now. It is about people not being informed. And then in the diameters “Daugavas Vanagi” and all those other Latvian societies that are there, try to inform people in some way. And we are not talking now about some kind of legal letter or a legal waking-up, Mrs. Lībiņa-Egnere! We're talking about something that doesn't happen right if 33 children still... and in the year - 90 of the end of all Europe, including Sweden and the rest of Scandinavians... 90-90! - Latvian small citizens are taken out of the family. And it's not that they're all from some kind of alcoholic family. So... I am now talking about this request. Please support the further development of this request. We just need answers. If there are answers, whatever they are! - We can do something further. Think of these 33!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U47	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U48	Dear colleagues, Listening to Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere's arguments, I really wanted to come up on the platform for the second time and remind you: please let us not take the completely different path that Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere offers us to go! Let's imagine if there's a missing child in the forest, all the forces are devoted to finding this child. Completely all get involved - Latvians, Russians, police, landguards, volunteers - everyone is looking for this child to bring him to safety, where he is good. The removal of a child from a family abroad could be equivalent to disappearance in the forest for the child himself. In this case, if a child disappeared in the forest, would you now sit down and think about the guilt of his mother, how much alcohol she had drunk, or how much alcohol she had offended his father? No, you would just go and look for this child, fight for his life and safety. I would like to tell you that this is exactly what the orphan court - the Riga orphan court is doing right now. And the other courts of the orphanage will certainly do so. However, when we talk about the letter of law, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, it should be recalled that the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations lays down: ‘... within the limits of the laws and regulations of the host State,’ the consulate is obliged ‘to protect the interests of minors and other persons who lack full capacity and who are nationals of the sending State, in particular in cases where such persons need to establish custody or custody;’ and, ‘in accordance with the practices and procedures in force in the host State, to represent or order appropriate representation of the nationals of the sending State before the courts and other authorities of the receiving State in order to obtain, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the receiving State, a decision on interim measures to protect the interests and rights of those nationals...’. Colleagues! I read to you what the Vienna Convention said. It is also a document that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to respect. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Lībiņa-Egnere: “Read the Regulation!” ) Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support this request and indeed to take into account all the arguments that we have set out both in the request and in today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U49	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U50	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Nally Kleinberga, Rihards Melgailis and Imants Krādnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U51	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U52	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! On the agenda - request from Members Inguna Silver, Nellija Kleinberga, Jūlia Stepanenko, Silvia Šymfas, Vara Krūmiņa, Mārtiņa Šica, Jānis Ruka, Ivara Brībera, Riharda Melgailis, Jura Viļuma, Andra Morozova and Arthur Rubika to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis "On avoidance of regulatory obligations for the protection of the rights of minors in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the provision of false news to Members of the Saeima". We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U53	Ladies and gentlemen, We are continuing the debate. And I would like to say that, at the request of my constituents, I have been involved on several occasions in some cases in the forced removal of children of Latvian citizens from their families. True, it was still at the time when Andris Teikmanis, the Ambassador of Latvia to London, was replaced by Ms Braže a year ago. But also in those years I was convinced that participation in court hearings by a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or a representative of the Embassy of Latvia is extremely important to ensure that the removal of children belonging to Latvia from the family would not take place. The tone and rhetoric of the judge and court staff changes dramatically as soon as the representative of the Latvian state institution appears in the courtroom. That's the truth! This shall be certified independently of each other, by all persons who have participated in those proceedings. It is therefore very difficult to overestimate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' participation in such proceedings. It's not about getting involved in litigation... In the functions of the pilot lawyer, it is not the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor is it the competence of the embassy. Unfortunately, we cannot help legally, we cannot help apply British law to the needs of our own, but we can be present and show our readiness to help. And it has a very strong impact on events. I assure you! In 2014, 2015 and 2016, we managed to keep three children in families only because the participation of a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was very important and important. That's what I want to stress. Unfortunately, there is no representative of the Ministry of Justice in London. But it is the employees and specialists of this ministry who should be there. I understand very well that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has become accustomed to a completely different working style, to a completely different relationship, to events and relations taking place on other plates, but there must be very specific works here. And I think that consular staff have a very important role to play. I remember putting a lot of pressure on the embassy’s staff, consular staff. They were just not able to get right in three cities - Manchester, Leeds, Cowentri - and stay at their workplace in London. The distance between all these cities is between three and 700 kilometres - from Riga to Kraslava, and it is simply impossible to attend two sittings one day. But I think what I have learned from this debate really is true. The fact that Mrs Braže took the decision to exempt consular staff from the obligation to attend court proceedings, court hearings - that is a mistake! It's a gross mistake! I think this has only happened because Mrs Braže may not have gone into the question of how important all of these things are for preserving the prestige of Latvia's country. I think that the error should be corrected. In my view, this conversation, which is taking place today, is also an argument that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, however, must pay great attention... more attention to all these things that we are now taking care of. It should be remembered that our Embassy in London is not the same as the Embassy in Buenos Aires, Prague or elsewhere. The Embassy in London is one of the institutions that defends the rights of Latvian citizens most and represents Latvian citizens most, because in England our nationals are incomparably more. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “We are not divided by where they live!” ) I would also like to say that ( Dep. S. Āboltiņa: “All members are protected in the same way!” ) that all those who leave Latvia belong to Latvia and that we should never forget that. This is our honor, not just our duty. I am holy to be sure of that. I also think... Actually, this job has already begun... As I know very recently, however, this process has already begun in the government. And it's about having a representative of the orphan's court appointed to the embassy. In order to be there on a permanent basis, it is necessary to list all court proceedings, all addresses, contact phone numbers, surnames and names, so that all this experience is accumulated and so that there is no such thing that when the ambassador changes, the attitude towards the citizens of Latvia in Great Britain also changes dramatically. The Embassy's job really requires... The Embassy has very different needs, and the work of the Embassy requires other funding if we are talking about the Embassy in London. So if we want to solve this problem constructively, not just pay attention to our faces, to our individuals during the pre-election period (Dep. S. Aboltiņa: “What are you doing now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ We may really have to deal with this problem at desks rather than at Saeima’s Sitting Hall. I therefore think that this request, which we are talking about, must continue... Work should continue with a view to reaching a constructive solution. Firstly, adequate funding should be provided for the Embassy in London. Secondly, it is necessary to increase the functions and competences of consular staff. Thirdly, however, we should take into account the experience already acquired at our Embassy in London. Why should we forget this experience?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In my opinion, this would be simply a waste of our skills and experience. I think that we are on the right track and that all of this can be resolved very wisely, constructively, without changing government... Forgive, not ministers, not ambassadors, but by a simple decision. And so making the whole of this conversation a political event is no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U54	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U55	In fact, I was provoked by Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere. First of all, I am glad that finally the Latvian party also comes to say something about Latvian children, because it is really a question. And I would like to point out that Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere... Inese said, “Please do not overwrite all requests!” Inese asks ‘not to re-allocate all requests’. But who in the end is generalizing them?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Request Commission, as agreed in the Cooperation Agreement, does not turn all requests into a root and even such an important request into a matter. The Commission should, at least, have paid particular respect to their children, but - no! Just dig at the very root of the rude! So, I think, we're actually going to come up with... Mr. Brigmann also consulted... We had a... he said he would. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You can’t know that!” ) I hope for support. We will table amendments to the parliamentary order roll because... I really would like to look forward to the result of the working group led by Mrs Āboltiņa, but I have a great scepter, I think she too. However, we will present this proposal for amendments separately. It must be deleted. No constitutional procedure in this way can be grossly circumvented. And I did not hear in today's sitting any other reasons than what Libinina-Egnere said. And what Inese said... Some kind of foam comes out. Moreover, they are not the best! Someone doesn't like an ambassador. Someone! Which ambassador... We don't know anything about it. Request commission... Vilim may know something. He smiles mysteriously now, remembering both the Ambassador and its discussions. I don't know anything. The demand, colleagues, is that all the Saeima should account publicly here for what has been done and what has not been done. You can't use this way to wipe something down under the mist. There are therefore already requests. If we're talking about what the nature of the problem is... The problem is not August Brigmanis, who has always worked in good faith. Now I at least know about this, second, time of independence, first I don't know about it. But he has worked in good faith. And in this situation, the problem is in secret. In the Zolituda tragedy parliamentary investigation commission, we spoke publicly about things for the first time. Yeah, there are side effects. There people are trying to show up. But they're already trying to turn out, just as the camera is... if we are talking about Members. I think maybe... If you then reject this proposal - delete the Request Commission - which, in my opinion, is purely logical, then perhaps it should be thought that live broadcasts of commission sittings should be introduced. For in other parliaments, that is the case. You can't make a circus at the Saeima sitting. However, committee meetings on topical issues should be open. We simply want Lobby in the very root. Those coming to commission meetings... It is not at all clear how people get there and who invite them. The sittings are covered, and these questions, which Inese Lībiņa-Egnere said, I think it is interesting not only for us, but also for our constituents and also for the people who live in England, and even more for those children. Well, this attitude cannot nihilistically all requests to "norkt" and then say: please do not overturn all requests. What, then, is going on here? What's going on here, guys? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U56	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U57	Dear colleagues, I would, however, like to go back from the requests in general to this specific request that we are talking about. The problem with the removal of children from families in England and Ireland exists. And that's a hard problem. And in most cases it is not about disadvantaged families. I have to agree, it's business. Mostly. Poland, for example, has found ways at national level to defend its children and families. Our ambassadors should not, however, be put in one bag, because we are also insulting all Members or something else in one bag. Although a former ambassador in Ireland, Gint Apal, who has personally done a great deal in this matter. And not just him. Also in other embassies. But remember the number of people working in embassies. It's a couple of people. It's not enough to squander, but then it helps you pay attention to it. There must be further concrete work. The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission is looking at and will continue to see. I have already spoken to Inese Laizāns, who is still specifically to be done to improve the situation. The Ministry of Justice creates booklets that will not, of course, be delivered to every house. Consider ways to better deliver information. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in liaison with ambassadors who are aware of the situation in England, Ireland, must find ways in which our children are better protected. The problem is, but it needs to be addressed in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U58	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U59	Dear Saeima! There are times when I listen to the speeches of Mr. Neighbours in connection with economic issues, agriculture and other issues. But in this case, I think that Mr Neiminina has really looked into the issue, because it affects his constituents in the most direct way. In this case, other Members of the Saeima have also gone into these matters, and if they see a problem, I think this should be dealt with. I would remind you that two years ago the Saeima adopted a decision on the protection of Latvian citizens abroad, which had been developed by the Demography Commission under the leadership of Imants Debtor and which was also supported by the majority of the Saeima, and after this decision by the Saeima, significant progress was made in cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, cooperation between our embassies... In cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, significant progress was made in the protection of our citizens in various court hearings and in various other proceedings... and even in the sense that Latvian citizens were informed about the responsibilities of family abroad. Time has passed, and it is quite possible that problems develop functionally... However, I would like to point out to my fellow Members of the Saeima that, in my opinion, requests are not a way of addressing these problems. Two years ago, when we had the case where the Saeima needed support in solving the problem of the withdrawal of Latvian children from the family, colleagues organized their own trip to the British Embassy in Latvia to talk to the Ambassador himself. I myself took part in that meeting. I think it was very productive and valuable, and then some progress was made. And right now, I think this problem doesn't have to be left, it's laid under the mist. That is why we agreed with the Vice-President of the Saeima's Foreign Affairs Commission, Richard Kola, during this break with the consultants that we will invite Mrs Braže to attend the meeting of the Saeima's Foreign Affairs Commission with representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice to discuss these problems, if any, if any. To ensure that this discussion is not only between a few people, I really invite all the authors of the request, or at least most of the authors of the request, to attend the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting, which will be attended by the Ambassador of Latvia in Great Britain, in order to pass through all these issues and find solutions. Today we reject the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U60	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U61	Hello, colleagues! I listened with great attention and interest to this debate, because in reality I am very short of such a parliamentary debate on various issues, especially when Members have prepared requests. As far as I remember all these requests, all the topics are very relevant to our society. Difficult, difficult topics, but very topical for society, those that are interested in people outside the borders of Parliament. And, unfortunately, as a fellow Member has pointed out here, there is, first of all, a time limit in committee sittings; second, there is a limit on space; thirdly, there is no possibility to allow other Members who may not be able to sit in committee sitting when they are looking at the matter, but to find out about it (of course, if they do not listen to the records of committee sittings) in some other way. Today, very many and important things were talked about this topical issue, and I had the feeling that this ball - information, opinions, attitudes - is getting bigger, bigger, bigger... And in the end, I... Although I am a signatory to this request, I began to lose a bit of understanding about what exactly... where there's the root of what we're really talking about, where there's the end of the ball with which it all started. And in reality we are talking about very simple things. As members of the opposition, we have the opportunity only to approach the Prime Minister at some social event, to welcome him and to say kindly: 'Mr. Prime Minister, do you have any brother in order for you to answer this particular question?' For example, about children's things or about electricity or mail or something else... It is one of the most serious opportunity to communicate directly with the Prime Minister, ask him questions and expect his response and answers to what is of interest not only to opposition voters, but also to position party voters. In this case, in my opinion, the Commission is doing a bear on both the position of the parties and the Prime Minister himself and is actually denying the use of this parliamentary (Dep. S. Āboltiņa: “Something on the subject could we hear?” )... using this parliamentary method to ask questions that may actually be asked to the Prime Minister by any journalist who can call the Prime Minister at any time, agree on a meeting, invite to television, invite to radio, invite to interview and ask questions and receive answers. The abomination is that we, as Members of the Saeima, cannot give them to him. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “Call to the fraction! Which you don’t have anymore!” ) We are prevented from doing so by the Request Commission. All right, all right. All right, all right, all right, all right, all We ask for competent and true information from the Prime Minister himself, he has this information. Is it so hard to give it to us? Assess and encourage substantial improvement in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Dissatisfaction... There are enough arguments for displeasure. And the third. Encourage the Foreign Minister to assess the suitability of diplomatic staff for office. I don't understand the logic! Where's the logic?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, Why should the submission of this request to the Prime Minister be refused? One of you explain to me: Where is the logic?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U62	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U63	Yeah. Colleagues, thank you for a very meaningful debate. And I have a very constructive proposal to sum up the work of these two committee meetings and the progress of the proceedings at the Saeima sitting today. First of all, I appeal to the Members who have already made these proposals, and I very much hope that they will also turn their words into real things, not just empty air.... And that is specifically about the question of the usefulness of the Commission by Mr Baloža, Mr Kaimina, and, in part, Mr Freeer and Mrs Shimfa. I really... Apparently, that time has come and the commission has exhausted its usefulness. I would really like you to implement this idea also in the real draft law that you would submit, namely, on the cessation of the work of this commission. And so there is every opportunity for us, the Saeima, to decide on this and to make appropriate amendments to the Rules of Procedure. These requests, I accept, are possible in other forms as well, and their consideration could probably be more constructive and the final result would be much more effective. I really want to keep these colleagues mentioned above to the floor so that action can also be followed. I will personally be ready to vote in favour of your proposal - the removal of the Request Commission. ( Interface: “We have already written! ” ) Yes. Exactly! But if we're talking about this particular demand... Well, everything was said today. I just want to add a lot of experience from my colleague, Mr. Kaimiņš, with my children in England... As far as I've spoken to them, it doesn't happen in England that children are taken out of the family just the same way! Well, it doesn't happen! England has very strict order towards the family, very strict supervision. In England, families take care of their children very carefully. And I'm not going to be a lawyer here, but I can only tell you one. In this situation, I am convinced that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is acting in accordance with its tasks. And I call for this request to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U64	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for a request from Inguna Silver, Nellija Kleinberga, Julia Stepanenko, Silvia Šymfas, Vara Krūmiņa, Mārtiņa Šica, Jānis Ruka, Ivara Libera, Riharda Melgailis, Jura Viļuma, Andra Morozova and Arthur Rubika to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On avoidance of regulatory obligations for the protection of the rights of minors in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the provision of false news to Members of the Saeima”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 45, for - 10. The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and review the draft law “On the declaration of force of the Law “On Public Organisations and Their Associations” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Liability Insurance of Owners of Land Vehicles”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U65	Honorary Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We have received one proposal from the Commission. 1. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U66	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U67	I therefore call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U68	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land-based vehicle owners”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U69	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, 21 proposals were received and examined by the Commission for this draft law. 1. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U71	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Rasnačs, which provides for the rounding-up of public charges. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U73	The proposal and a number of further motions made by Mr Kūtra concern a request for a judgment. In particular, we were in the middle of the readings in favour of the proposal that a national fee be paid for such a request. However, between readings, discussions were also held at the Ministry of Justice in the composition of the group of experts and it was decided not to support the relevant version approved at second reading, while support was given to Member Kūtra's proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U75	The same is true for 4. - Member Curry's proposal, which is related to it. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U77	Five more. - the proposal by Member Curra, which is related to the same and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U79	6. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice to round up the Registry fees. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U81	7. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the title of the article. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U83	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This was, in fact, due to a proposal made by two Members, which in turn was linked to the so-called legal proceedings in cases concerning the rights of the child. We had a discussion on this issue at another specially convened meeting of the Commission, and the result of the discussion was that the Commission actually agreed that persons facing child rights protection issues in their daily lives need special knowledge, as stipulated in Section 5.1 of the Law on the Protection of Children, which lists all entities who need such knowledge and indicates by what time this knowledge should be acquired. So there was no doubt about it. There was a discussion about the need to provide state legal aid in these cases, and some criticisms about the quality and availability of legal aid were also made from certain non-governmental organisations. The Commission in turn responded by preparing and sending letters to both the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia and the Administration of Legal Aid accordingly. After all, the panel decided to change the list of categories of cases supported at second reading by excluding from the case the child. But at the same time asked the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the Ministry of Welfare, the Centre for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, non-governmental organisations, the Council of Sworn Advocates and the Administration of Legal Assistance to discuss all the issues that were marked during the meeting of the Commission and to return to this issue in the first half of next year. Consequently, this ministerial proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U84	Members agree with the Commission's view?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U85	Yes, they do. Thank you. The Legal Commission drew up proposal 9 and supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U87	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U89	11. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U91	12. - Member Curra... I have already informed you about this. So a proposal of a similar nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U93	13. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U95	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the related proposal from Member Curry. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U97	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U99	16. - Member Curra's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U101	17. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau, which has been partly supported, is included in 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U102	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U103	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Partly supported, included in 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U104	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U105	19, on the other hand, is the proposal of the Legal Commission, which is linked to the establishment of transitional rules. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U107	20. There is a minister's proposal, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U108	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U109	The Commission drew up an alternative proposal for the entry into force of the law. That's January 15th. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U111	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U112	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Population Register Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U113	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! Let's see two interrelated draft laws - Amendments to the Population Register Act and to the Register of Natural Persons Act. ‘ Amendments to the Population Register Act’. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U115	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U116	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U117	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U118	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U119	4. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission. Please support this!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U121	5. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U123	6. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U125	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U127	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U129	9. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U131	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U132	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Population Register”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on the Register of Natural Persons, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U133	1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U135	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U137	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U139	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U141	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U143	And six is a proposal from the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U145	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U147	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U149	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U151	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partly supported, included in proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U152	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U153	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U155	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U157	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U159	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U161	And the last one, 15, is the proposal from the Legal Office. This was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U163	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for the draft law to be supported at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on the Register of Natural Persons! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U165	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U166	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Hosams Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U167	Hello, colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission received two proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. The Commission has partially supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U169	And 2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U171	I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U172	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on patients' rights in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on the financing of health care, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U173	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs examined and prepared for the third reading the draft law on the financing of health care. A total of 54 proposals have been received. 1. - The Commissioner's proposal, Martyn Schic. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U174	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U175	Yes, the majority of Members did not support this proposal, but unfortunately it is about extremely large amounts of funding and it is not said that these expenditures will be cut. I would remind you that according to the law on State Social Insurance, invalidity, maternity and disability benefits more than 20 percent - more than 20 percent! - from the social budget, that is to say, about 500 million each year. And pay for paying sick leave... The number of illness cases is increasing, and the amounts spent in addition to those incapacity for work are increasing by tens of million each year. And according to the law on the state budget, it is planned that in the future, in the coming years, this proportion of morbidity will continue to increase, despite the fact that more than 200 million are invested in health care. This proposal is not aimed at abstract health indicators that can be compared - and I say abstractly - with the fight for world peace, but at reducing specific indicators. Our aim is to reduce short-term disability and disability, thus freeing tens of millions of euros from the social budget every year. That is why I am supplementing this draft law with a specific objective and a political task - the parliamentary task - to executive bodies, ministries. We need to fight for a reduction in the number of cases of incapacity for work, a reduction in the time of incapacity for work and a reduction in the number of incapacity for work, so as not to have these huge costs and resources released for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U176	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U177	The Commission did not support the view that the concept of public health, which is included in this definition, had already been included. If we are talking about disability, disability, then we need to include prevention and all other things that describe public health. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Schitz's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -13, for -61, for -3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U179	2. - The Commissioner's proposal, Martyn Schic. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U180	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U181	There are special types of insurance in our country - compulsory civil insurance and also insurance against accidents at work. What, though, is happening in practical life? Then when we or... when our loved ones have been affected by road traffic accidents, even if there is a special form of insurance that could cover these treatment costs in a better quality, in a better term, these people are forced - forced! - to wait in queues or to pay (if they have this money) for their treatment in private bodies, and if they have had and advanced their treatment, they are beginning to fight insurance so that up to a thousand euros can be recovered. My proposal is: to make these types of insurance one way of financing health care. In practice, this is the case, and it is recorded in the objectives of these types of insurance, and it is left to be included in this law. However, this proposal on insurance was not supported... I share the view that such a reluctance to have timely and easy access to compulsory civil insurance to cover the costs of treatment is also due to the fact that insurance companies have often sponsored political forces. So... You do not need to think about your benefits, you need to think about people whose treatment would be significantly and qualitatively improved if they could receive special and special medical treatment if they were to be able to get quick and timely, without being in the ranks of national medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U182	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U183	The Commission did not support Martin Schic's proposal because it does not correspond to the underlying idea of the insurance: if there is a so-called OCTA, the funds are paid to the third party in the event of an accident and cannot be diverted to any other purpose. And social insurance against accidents, too... the law sets out quite different objectives. In general, I think this discussion is useful, but... Because the sources are absolutely not in line with the objective, the Commission did not support this proposal by Mr Šics. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Schitz's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -13, for -63, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U185	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U187	4. - a proposal from Members Dalder, Judin and Loskutov. No commission support. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U188	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal tabled by Members Dalder, Judine and Loskutov! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -4, for -64, for -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U189	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U190	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U191	Six more. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima - did not receive the support of the members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U192	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U193	7. - a proposal from Members Lazareva, Ražuka, Shimfas and Shizze. It was partly supported and incorporated in 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U194	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U195	8 / 8 - the proposal by Members Lazareva, Ražuka, Šifas and Schics - was partly supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U197	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U199	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia and Member Edward Smiltens. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U200	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U201	Hello, colleagues! Recently there was a national holiday, and many of you were in the Riga Dome on the 99th birthday of Latvia, where Archbishop Jānis Vanags spoke to us all. Many of you, I think, were listening to this sermon, but the question was, did you hear that? When talking about Latvia, the Archbishop said (I quote): “Many people of Latvia say today: we are disappointed – or perhaps the more accurate thought will be expressed by a non-literal word broken...” “...the biggest loss has been not money, but people’s expectations, their chances in life and their loyalty to their country. It has paid Latvia the most expensive - many hundred lost souls, who have added Latvian queues abroad.” And most importantly: “I want to hope that with the end of the privatisation process, the virtues of wild capitalism have remained in the past. If not, Latvia continues to draw close to age.” Colleagues! Is it true that the process of privatisation has ended and that these virtues, which have caused a great deal of public insult and ruined trust, have remained in the past? We have established by law, for example, strategic sectors in which companies cannot be privatised (‘Latvian State Forests’, ‘Latvian Railways’) and these sectors must be maintained as strategically important. So, the industries... But there is another important sector that is strategically important for Latvia and its people - colleagues, it's health care! It is known that after positive decisions of the 9th Saeima, there were powerful chains of pharmacy. At present, the health system is weakened and bleeding. This allows the private sector to take over more and more services. The public healthcare system loses the medical capacity, and this is a real problem. Why are quotas not being met, for example, in regions? There is a real shortage of doctors, their migration either abroad or to the private sector - from public hospitals, from municipal hospitals to the private sector. This situation also changes the flow of patients and further weakens the public healthcare system. Or is this the objective of maintaining a weakened system and gradually privatising it? As Mr. Vanaga said, as in the frightful 1990s, only a lot more subtle, more invisible and more refined... Latvia must not lose control over a strategic sector of such importance. The share of private medicine is almost 30 percent. It's beautiful: we have a billion in the healthcare system right now. But where does it go? In other European countries, the share of this chapter is kept within 10 percent (e.g. Scandinavian countries). It is allowed to operate in areas where the State is unable to provide services. We are trying to reach that dangerous border when the state loses control of one of its strategic sectors - health care. And then prices and rules, colleagues, will dictate someone else than the country. In fact, there is a privatisation of the health system. A bright example is the Gulbene, the Prizes. All this takes place around the Alūksne hospital from the second level to the first and so on. I've talked to those people, and it's clear, too... There have been many programmes on how these strategically important hospitals in the region have been privatised. It also expands in Valmiera, Cesis and other places. And together with another principle of this law, namely, sorting of the population after tax, Latvia will in fact be divided into two parts. Those who have and have access to health care, and those who will not have one or the other. And what does the World Health Organisation say about this and its review of health funding policy in Latvia? Direct payments of patients in Latvia are among the highest in Europe. The third highest in the European Union! And they have a significant negative impact on financial protection. So the level at which households experience financial difficulties when healthcare is to be used. Many keep silent and say that this is an unstoppable process. It just happens. But I bet you, if we keep quiet and do nothing like this, then the main theme of the 14th or 15th Saeima elections will be something similar to that of the US with the Obamacare initiative: hundreds of thousands of people do not get healthcare, it is not really available because they simply have no money. A fundamentally important proposal was put forward for the second reading. It is a pity that the leaders of the Unity Group are not here in the Chamber. With her signature, it was done. But the proposal was withdrawn and actually demolished with roots out of the law. Gundar Many remembers. He stopped me at the previous sitting because his proposal was not actually there. I'm talking about this, too. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Take two more minutes!” ) Yes, I ask for two minutes so that I can finish this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U202	Do Members have reservations if Member Smilten brings together both speaking times?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U203	Thank you, Mr. Neighbours. That is why we are putting it back on behalf of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, so that here, in the Saeima, everyone can vote in favour of this fundamental principle, which states that: "The state budget for the payment of health care services is made available as a priority to medical institutions in the ownership and control of the state and local government (more than 50 per cent of the capital). If state and municipal medical institutions are not reasonably able to provide MK defined health care services in full or do not provide certain types of care, the lack of services is limited, but if the service is not available, private and foreign medical institutions are attracted to the missing type of service.’ Only then. But, as a matter of priority, this money should be directed towards the state and local government system. In the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, I called on Members to set a longer date for entry into force, as adjustments may be necessary. Let's say, analyses, “E.Gulbja Laboratory”, dentistry... There are areas where the State does not provide these services, and adjustments should therefore be made. This proposal was also rejected. For this reason, on behalf of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, I call on those who have tabled this proposal, but then they have taken it with their roots, come and justify the change of opinion of 180 degrees. I ask my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U204	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U205	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Yes, indeed, the Commission acknowledged that for years we have been discussing this problem in the Commission, which has become huge, so in several meetings of the Commission, when preparing this bill, we have discussed it and made the relevant proposals as well. But at the last meeting, in which both Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis and Minister for Health Anda Čakša took part, we spoke about this matter again, and it became clear that in such a frontal direct attack it cannot be resolved quickly. The private sector has gained such weight, strength and resources that longer and more patient work is needed here. The Prime Minister did not say that the commission was not right. He said let's not hurry! And that's why the commission changed this proposal in such a way that we moved it from the basic text of the bill to the transitional provisions. It was the option proposed by Minister Anda Chakša. This means that under the auspices of the Cabinet of Ministers a working group is established, which until July 1 will draft a regulatory act on how state, municipal and private medical enterprises are financed. This is the case in Estonia. There is an act of the Cabinet of Ministers regulating it. In April, this working group will submit a transitional report to the Social and Labour Commission. You could say we've lost the battle, but we haven't lost the war. Therefore, the Commission did not support the proposal of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia and Member Edward Smiltens.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U206	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia and Member Smilten! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 37, for - 29. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U207	11. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U208	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U209	Hello, colleagues! The nature of my proposal is very simple: the state must finance public and municipal medical institutions, not take care of private business. Private business, on the other hand, could only be financed if we saw that public and municipal medical institutions were not enough to provide the necessary medical care. This proposal is analogous to the proposal that was examined at second reading and endorsed by the committee responsible. But I don't know why in a mystical way it disappeared from the second reading because, as I understand... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “The applicants withdrew their proposal!” ) Yes, as I understand this proposal was withdrawn by the rapporteur. And it's obvious... Where is the Legal Office? This is an obvious violation of the Saeima's order roll! The proposer was not entitled to withdraw his proposal if it had been voted on and supported by the committee responsible. This clearly shows that once again we see the invisible hand of the pharmaceutical power stretching in now in the healthcare business, and for which it is very important to be present at this money. And suddenly there were the people who needed them and made obvious illegal amendments - illegal amendments! - in this draft law, withdrawing this proposal and thus acting contrary to the order of the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Stop!” ) This proposal could not have been withdrawn! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Stop!” ( ) What happened suddenly? Therefore, colleagues, so that we can see who voted and how in the interests of who I have voted, I have tabled this proposal again, and now society as a whole will be able to assess who cares for and what interests. I call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U210	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U211	Thank you to my colleague, Zarin. Of course, there is a question why he did not vote in favour of our proposal and abstained, because the content is similar or practically the same. But the question now is that it is really an unprecedented case: when the proposal has been carefully discussed in the working group and in the sub-committee of the Social and Labour Commission and then supported and recommended for adoption by the Social and Labour Commission at the Saeima sitting, then suddenly the Prime Minister, his two ministers and the entire “heavy artillery” come to the Parliament sitting and, by a majority of votes in the exercise of party discipline, the proposal that was proposed for viewing at the Saeima sitting is withdrawn! We've achieved... Yes, Latvia has reached the critical level when there may not be a return from health care paid services and from private medicine. But then, with this funding, medicine will no longer cost four percent of its gross national product, but eight or nine, and then it will be like British or other systems. But 12 percent of GDP will be if we go to clean-up medicine like that in the United States with all the problems arising from this system. Latvia is going on a very rational road, but everyone... I would point out that the sunken cream goes to private business, but the rest remains in the public sector and in the municipal sector. It cannot be that, in a situation where Estonia has much better funding than 10 per cent, we are already spending 30 per cent on individual types of services in the private sector. That's... There's no return. There must be a clear policy that the state-guaranteed medical assistance is provided by hospitals, medical institutions set up by the state and municipalities. This is a conceptual question about the future of medicine in general. And you cannot submit to what is, in essence, a hidden further privatisation of medicine. Thank you. I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U212	The name of Member Aija Barch.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U213	Highly honored members of the Saeima Presidium! Dear Members, Honourable Members! I come before you to tell you what really happened at that committee meeting and to remind my colleagues that we obviously read in different ways the roll of order of the Saeima. For the time being, it has been stated in the parliamentary roll that it is the duty of the chairman of the commission to invite the responsible officials to the committee's meeting and also to convene the committee's meetings. And that was exactly what happened at the committee meeting that our Commissioner, Mr Šics, talked about so vigorously: we invited the Prime Minister, we invited the health ministers and we invited the Minister of Welfare. We also invited the Legal Bureau to the committee meeting. The Head of the Legal Bureau was at our commission meeting and gave us legal support so that we can deal with this issue correctly and precisely. The fact that the proposers withdrew their proposal... There was obviously a basis for this. It's not up to me to think about it. At the Commission's sitting, this was indeed the first time that I had been responsible for the management of the Commission for many years. And I also say thank you today to the member of the Commission, or my deputy, Mr Einer Cilinski, who helped me deal with this difficult meeting of the Commission. At that meeting, the commission decided... The Commission delegated two members – Einars Cilinskis, Member of the Commission, and Romualdas Gazukas, Chairman of the Public Health Sub-Commission – to work in the working group set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. We have decided and will insist that the working group set up in April next year in the Cabinet will already tell us about the work that has been done. The transitional provisions of the law also set a specific date when this working group, more specifically the Cabinet of Ministers, will have to deal with this proposal in particular by discussing it well and considering it well. Dear colleagues, If we look so seriously not only at the roll of order of the Saeima, which is a rule, but also at what the President of Latvia has told us here in the past, then the third reading should now be accompanied by proposals that have been debated, on which disputes could no longer exist. That is why I am calling, colleagues, not to support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U214	Thank you. The name of the Member, Renar Putnins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U215	Colleagues! I'm a doctor. I am a medical practitioner, and I have practiced in a state capital company, a state hospital. I didn't practice in any of the private hospitals. I work exclusively in a state hospital. On this point, I would just like to say one to you: all those who discussed here, and also Members in the Commission, have forgotten the most important thing: our citizens and patients. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Oh this!” ) The private and public sector - who will take away what - is fighting against each other. If we are honest and honest, then we will say it... What is in the first basket after this law, what is guaranteed by the State, is practically only provided by public medical centres, and private people are absolutely absent there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Schics: “Analysis! Well, come on!” ) That is first. Second... ( Internouncing call.) Well, the analysis you won't take away... Secondly. I would like to say this: if the Ministry, namely Minister Anda Čakša, who is here today, had done what was written in the national declaration... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Schics: “Governments!” )... Governments, yes, I'm sorry... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What difference!” ) that national standards, health criteria must be drawn up, then we absolutely should not argue about this, because national standards and these criteria can be successfully met by the large hospitals in the country. And so this competition in the country is better... Unlike private individuals. And don't go on the other side, someone with power and with law take away. We develop standards, criteria, and then there will be no competitors in the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U216	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U217	Dear colleagues, In addition to what Aia Barch said, I would also like to agree to this. Why did I vote in favour of bringing the matter to the working group? Because after the commission supported the idea as such, we received a letter from family doctors who were “to” to such a kind of share. If we are talking about private people, I want to tell you that the problem... Only one is here in Riga... In all other cities - Daugavpils, Liepaja - only one polyclinic belongs to the private. This therefore concerns Riga, and this must not only be discussed here, but must be discussed with the Rigans who, I hope, will also participate in the working group. I therefore personally support the fact that this issue should be passed on to the working group and that they will find an opportunity to support public and municipal medical institutions, while at the same time not forgetting the patient as such.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U218	The name is Anda Chakša, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U219	Hello, honourable Members! I must say a great deal of thanks for this discussion on this proposal, because we have to admit that there is a problem with the public and private distribution of health services. So this is about treatment provided by one sector or another. I really have to agree with Mr Putniņš this time that in this case, we must not forget the patient. And that is the most important thing: so that citizens can get services while we are discussing or trying to find the best way to provide services. And this is already being done by the National Health Service by developing a strategic procurement framework where it is very clear what the criteria should be in order to be able to provide public services. But as we also jointly recognised in the Commission, a much more thorough and in-depth analysis is needed to accept ( Dep. I.Rībena: “10 years have already been analyzed!” ) very clear follow-up decisions. That is why I really ask you not to support this proposal at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U220	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U221	Colleagues! Perhaps this is a fundamental, most important principle in relation to the future Health Financing Act. Because there are other things that may affect the nuances, but this principle will affect the entire future of the healthcare system in the coming years. And what is done? A working group is established and the issue is highlighted out of the Saeima agenda and moved to the Cabinet of Ministers. Two Members - only two Members - are handed over to the working group with this, and the Saeima is not involved in this. Why couldn't I do what I propose - leave this principle in law? I understand there's a family doctor... I've also talked to family doctors. There's a really different situation. There are sectors that should be defined which do not fall under this scheme. Set a deadline and this principle... that it comes into force, for example, one year later, and everything happens here in the Saeima during the year. Why not? Mr. Bird will definitely explain, right?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U222	The name of the Member, Renar Putnins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U223	This must be explained to others. I just want to ask you a specific question. All the time, I hear from our Minister for Health that something needs to be done, that will be done and that we are doing. But concretely, how many standards or health criteria have been developed over this and a half years while you are a minister and always are telling? How many times? How many such offers have been developed? I haven't seen anyone. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Violence: ‘Inscription the request!’ ) And because of its failure to act, due to empty talk, we are putting public health care at risk in this situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U224	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U225	It was very unusual to hear a speech from the Minister for Health, who called for patient memory in this case. Why only in this case? Why should the interests of patients be borne in mind only in the event of a loss of funding for private business? Why is patients’ interests not meant all this time? Why have all these criteria — all that was to be done — not been done for years? That is why there is this proposal to finally force it to do so and to really think about patients' interests. Otherwise, this system remains, which, as if on the pretext of patients' interests... What's going on? So there is an opportunity to get a medical service either from a public authority or private. And artificially, a system is being created all the time so that money ends for the state and the client is forced to go to the private. And it is presented as a concern for the interests of customers. Excuse me! I call on us to support this proposal if we really care about patients' interests and to demonstrate what we are thinking about today. And reflecting on what you said, Mrs Barch, that you have followed the line of order. Sorry, but Article 95 of the Rules of Procedure states very clearly: if the panel has voted and supported the proposal, then this proposer is no longer entitled to withdraw it. This is likely to have been an illegal case. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Behold, Barča, get it!” ) I therefore call, colleagues, on us to restore legal justice and to think about the interests of patients. I call for this proposal to be supported! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U226	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U227	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. President Barroso has already expressed the Commission's views on this issue. The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U228	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 33, against - 38, refraining - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U229	12. - Member Putniņš's proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U230	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Renar Putnins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U231	Here I just want to emphasise the fact that there is some unfairness towards all players in the game, that is, against medical staff. Because only a separate group is highlighted here - employees of the Emergency Medical Care Service who have discounts on the patient's co-payment. I think... I agree with them, but I believe that other medical workers working in the public sector should also have such discounts. Unfortunately, I understand that this has an impact on fiscal space and there is no money, but it is very strange that a narrow group is being highlighted, given that the staff of the Emergency Medical Service also has a faster retirement chance.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U232	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U233	The Commission did not support this proposal. The Commission has received a reply that 18 thousand medical professionals are employed by public authorities and local authorities. So that number could be much higher. The Commission therefore considers that this proposal undermines the draft law and cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U234	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Putniņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -6, for -38, for -36, for -36. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U235	13. - Member Putniņš's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U236	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Renar Putnins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U237	My offer was that. This is the law that takes away something. Take us 85 million, which increases the health budget - that is very good, but at the same time we are excluding about 300,000 people from scheduled care with this law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate call.) At least one one one! - a law that does not punish, because through this law follows the guideline: “In order to fight the shadow economy, we will punish those who do not pay taxes!” Well, in fact, this law does not fully fulfil this task, even minimally. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Bird, tell the truth!” ) Because, as we know, the shadow economy is the same ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Barča, stop beating!” ), that the recipients of the minimum wages are equally included, and the rest of which they receive in the envelopes, they are absolutely... they belong to all groups. That is why my proposal was at least one kind of carrot, as I must say, that those who receive the average salary are included in a compensatory system where they are paid up one hundred percent of their prescription medicines. It would be at least a bonus for those who really pay those taxes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U238	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U239	Dear colleagues, This bill does not come from a particularly good life or wealth. Our health care system is breaking into pieces, the doctors are dissipating. So you need money from the outside. There's no such money in the budget and never will. These two years, when we were covered with money at the expense of the budget deficit, will soon take off. That is why we need a system, a money pump from the edge, how to supplement this budget, and this compulsory country's health insurance is similar to that in the neighbouring countries - Estonia and Lithuania - and it will serve that purpose. There are, of course, groups that cannot pay (and all of them are listed below - pensioners, children, disabled people, the unemployed, the poor), but unfortunately, those who can pay, have wages and pay taxes - they must pay. And there is the salt of this law! If we give compensating medicine to everyone who has an average salary and more, then, of course, any meaning of this law is lost and it can no longer contribute financially. This proposal has no understanding of the nature and objectives of the law, and I therefore call for it not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U240	I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U241	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U242	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Member Putniņš's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -6, against -72, refraining from -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U243	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Putniņš's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U244	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U245	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U247	16. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U249	17. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. There has been support from Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U251	Also 18. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U253	19. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U255	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U257	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. Partly supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U258	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U259	22. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U261	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U263	24. - The Commissioner's proposal, Martyn Schic. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U264	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U265	25. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U267	26. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U269	27. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U270	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U271	28. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U273	29. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U275	30. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U277	31. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U279	32. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U281	33. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U283	34. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U285	35. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The proposal has been supported, as set out in proposal 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U287	36. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U289	37. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U290	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U291	38. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U293	39. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U295	40. - Member Putniņš's proposal. Partially supported, included 41. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U296	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U297	41. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U299	42. - Member Putniņš's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U300	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U301	43. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U302	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U303	44. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U305	45. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U307	46. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U309	47. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. Partly supported, includes 49. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U310	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U311	48. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported, included 49. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U313	49. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U315	50. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by 51. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U316	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U317	51. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U319	52. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U321	53. - a proposal from Members Lazareva, Ražuka, Shimfas and Shizze. Partially supported, included 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U322	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Janis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U323	Honorable Bureau! Dear colleagues, A little bit about this proposal. Looking at the Health Ministry health budget program “Laboratory Research”, “Primary Health Care”, “Sustainable Health Care”, it can be concluded that already this year 40 per cent of total health care expenditure is diverted to pay. For the following year, according to these calculations, the salary section could be as much as 45-46 percent. In order to dispel the doubt that doctors will actually have an increase in salaries, I would like to say that in the outpatient sector, the increase in salaries will be from EUR 859 to 1125, i.e. 31 percent. In the hospital sector, the increase in salaries will be up to 1547 euros, an increase of up to 80 percent. A proportion of 100, 60 and 40 will also be respected between treatment and patient care and treatment and patient care support. This amount is large enough, and today, too, in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, it is being examined by sub-programmes and I hope it will be supported. This is where care is shown through this big budget, which is available to the Ministry of Health and healthcare, both for patients and for those who provide it to patients. But it is also important to point out that the Ministry of Health does not pay wages for medical professionals. The National Health Service contracts with healthcare institutions and these contracts will also include a section that will oblige the management of health care institutions to comply with these prescribed wage increases for doctors, nurses and nurses’ assistants. Therefore, please do not support proposals 53 and 54. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U324	Dear colleagues, Members Adamovich, Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins, Upenieks and Cilinskis ask to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? Members have no reservations. The sitting of the Saeima will therefore be held without interruption. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U325	High honourable Members! This is because we do not believe that next year, 40 percent of our medical staff will be rewarded. We are talking about the future - whether we will maintain the same trend in the future in order to preserve those people who work and provide services in our hospitals. The next proposal was supported by a commission - and also unanimously. There was no claim. We're in the commission, too... Those who work in this sector for a very long time understand that the Ministry of Finance, the next Prime Minister or the next parliament can think about it. And we want these figures to appear in the law because we do not have confidence; we are so often "put up" and deceived that we have only one form of action left to us: to put in the law and then try not to change the law. You know, today, Parliamentary Secretary Trupovnieks talks about the fact that we are not those paying... As far as we are concerned, we will pass on to the medical staff. But, you know, then prosperity... The Minister for Health needs to get up on the table and say: yes, I do not believe in the Ministry of Finance, and there will be no such flow in the future. We need to... If you cannot guarantee it for doctors and nurses, then we may write it in the law and then look at its implementation as the law supervisor! We believe that there is a need to support 54 today. - a proposal from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. We will also give a signal to those people who have left Latvia that in the next three years this sector will have money for salaries and that they can already load suitcases to go back to Latvia to work.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U326	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U327	Dear colleagues, Members of the Saeima. Of course, it can be said that the Social and Labour Commission wanted to be as good as it always did. But that's not that simple. The opposition colleagues had submitted this increase in absolute terms, following the debate at the National Trilateral Cooperation Council. Jurists said: “It’s impossible! Does not comply with the budgeting principles!’ The Social and Labour Commission, in its best wishes, replaced the absolute figures with percentage, because we are very well aware of the need for doctors to show where this increase is. And after seeing the draft law in our commission and preparing for the third reading, we have received letters from the Ministry of Finance and the Legal Office of the Saeima that this cannot be done because it is not in line with the basic budgetary legislation. Maybe! This Monday, too, I had an opportunity to speak to Finance Ministers Dana Reizniecie-Ozola and Prime Minister Maris Kučinski. The Prime Minister expressed concern that the lawyers of the Presidential Chancellery can use it and reject it or send us back this law, thus threatening all reforms, including the progress of the increase in medical salaries. That is why I will abstain from voting on this proposal, and I call on you also to abstain as far as you can, so that you do not stop this law, so that it is announced and that on 1 January it really starts to work. The substance of the case is not in legal wording. The essence of the matter is that in 2018, we have 40 percent of all the funding for medicine, even 45(!) We have 2019. It is not known what will happen in 2020 when we will no longer be able to cover ourselves with funding at the expense of the government deficit. And that's what this fight is about. But we can continue this fight for 2020 funding in 2018, and our successors in 2019. So it's two years to pull this money out... how to place it in the budget so that medical professionals have a further increase in salaries. I will therefore, unfortunately, now abstain from voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U328	Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U329	Once again, I would like to clarify that in the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, the majority of proposals 54 were supported. The proposal states that in the medium-term budgetary framework in 2018, 2019 and 2020, not less than 40 per cent of the funding for health services is directed to the remuneration of employees providing state-paid health care services. The Ministry of Health sees no problem fulfilling this condition of the law and, as has been said, this part has already been calculated and accounts for more than 40 percent. But the proposal guarantees that it will not be smaller. In the coalition board, the proposal was rejected and the Minister for Finance pointed out that in health services pay is just one element of the calculation and there is no mechanism to ensure that at least 40 per cent of healthcare funding is channelled and spent on employees' pay. At the same time, however, he said that it could be found in the accounts of medical institutions. I do not see the problem of not having to schedule figures and control them. But if we follow outdated methods and principles, the reform cannot be implemented at all. The adoption of this proposal is only the beginning of work. Let us be honest with ourselves and with the doctors! I propose support for proposals 53 and 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U330	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U331	Colleagues, I am just one technical detail: proposals 53 and 54 have significantly different ideas. Proposal 53 states that all these more than 40 per cent are intended to raise wages, i.e. delta in addition to the existing one. On the other hand, proposal 54 deals with something quite different, about pay as such. Therefore, proposal 53 cannot in any event be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U332	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U333	I don't wanna... I believe that we do not have the right to participate in the fraud of Latvian doctors and medical practitioners and legalization of non-compliance. The lawyers have an interesting saying: give me a telephone platform, and if necessary, I'll find him who would be sentenced to death. Unfortunately, if with the same effort as now writes... Why can't it be written into the law this government's commitment that in the future, in 2019 and 2020, doctors, doctors, doctors will have an increased salary for these 40 percent? If with the same effort it was meant how it could be recorded, then I think we'd find... Yeah, I could have made it up. That is why I call on medical practitioners not to climb and promise, and the government's promises to pass on to the law, so that medical professionals do not drive away, so that they do not carry suitcases, so that they do not leave the medical institutions! So that private bodies are not the only place where a doctor can receive a decent salary. It is necessary to vote for what guarantees an opportunity for our medical staff, Latvia, to have clarity about future salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U334	The name is Anda Chakša, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U335	Dear Members, I come to the platform to give a little clarity about the way in which salaries are determined and calculated for medical staff. There are the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for a minimum wage for doctors and nurses based on the categories of post. And these rules have been changed - all administrative posts have been removed. And indeed, according to the professional division, there are left classes of doctors and nurses, and there are changes being made to the minimum wage. Go on. On the basis of this minimum wage, a tariff calculation is made, which in turn determines the amount of funding going to medical institutions. And each treatment institution with a contract with the National Health Service has a separate contract annex on how much of the funding is planned for remuneration next year. This money cannot be used for anything else, but for raising wages. The substantial difference - of course, the pay in the various medical institutions has been different, and these increases cannot therefore be completely linear, equally different medical institutions, and they will also be different for doctors and nurses. In these proposals, the main thing is that these services can be provided by both the public and the private sector, and we do not determine how much pay is paid directly there, but by putting such a rule into law, we are subject to the fact that... Well, then all medical institutions really have to become institutions; then they can no longer be capital companies. Therefore, the request does not support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U336	The name of the Member, Renar Putnins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U337	I have a very specific question. Does Mrs. Čakša really guarantee that the salary section of the doctor included in the service will go to wages? Is that really so?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U338	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U339	I'll take the chance that the Minister is here. I've been trying to find out in every way from the Ministry of Health how this money, this extra money, will get to the doctors. Why don't you come and tell me? Because no one has been able to explain it so far! In order for us to really have at least a little faith and a little hope for doctors that this money will really go to them, not somewhere along the way, because, as we know, charging is not recycled, mechanisms like... ( Internouncing call.) Come and tell me everything!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U340	The name to Member Romuald Crop, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U341	Dear colleagues, Already this afternoon, a joint meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and the Social and Labour Affairs Commission will take place under the leadership of Jānis Vacans and Aija Barčs, where we are already concrete... In absolute terms, we will consider 85 million of the medicine’s salaries. It will be today. And at the next sitting of the Saeima, we will also debate and vote on this. So these figures are already available for 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U342	The name of Member Jelen Lazareva, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U343	The appropriation to be made available today. This thick document talks not only about salary for medical practitioners, but also about increasing wages for ministerial staff, as well as for the National Health Service, but above all about...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U344	On the appropriations... Mrs Lazareva, there is now a 53rd proposal on the agenda, which you have also tabled and which the Commission has partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U345	Well, but the appropriation is very directly linked to this...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U346	Once the appropriation is on the agenda, you will have the opportunity to talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U347	Okay.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U348	Thank you. I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U349	Members are informed of all the circumstances of the case. I call on you to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U350	Does one of the Members wish to vote in favour of the partly-supported... Is that so? ( Insight: “It was so much to speak to the voice! ” ) Invite? Members want to vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. - the proposal tabled by Members Lazareva, Mr Produku, Mr Schiffe and Mr Schic! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 10, for - 40. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U351	54. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U352	Members want to have a debate. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U353	The arguments were put forward during the debate on proposal 53. Because of these circumstances, I will abstain and call on my colleagues to do so, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U354	Members support proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U355	Vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “What have you just done?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, For what?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U356	Vote. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - The proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 3, for - 47. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U357	In thanking the Minister for Health Anda Chakša, the experts of the Ministry of Health, our committees, the Social and Labour Commissions, the Members who have worked on these proposals in a collegial manner as a team, the consultants of the Commission and, in particular, the head of the Commission, Mrs Aija Barča, without whose experience and contribution we would not have dealt with this draft law in good time, I call for a vote in favour of this draft law at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U358	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft health care financing law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Thank you to the Minister for Health, who was in the Chamber during the debate on this law. Member of the Association of the Regions of Latvia Mārtiņš Šics. Report on the motives for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U359	The members of the Group of the Regions of Latvia could not support this law, which has no specific, achievable objectives, a law that will promote new bureaucracy (Internependences.) and increase the patient inequality in receiving healthcare services. The services to be provided as huge additional funding have been defined in a very general and vague manner, and the service levels to be provided are not defined for the services guaranteed by the State. This increases the risk of corruption in medicine. The law does not even appear all sources of financing. The law does not reflect the role and responsibility of municipalities in ensuring access to treatment services. The members of the coalition have excluded from the draft law a norm on the increase of the funding for the remuneration of medicine, thus confirming that the promised increase in salaries for medical professionals will not be resolved in the coming years. We cannot support the law that will facilitate the transition to private and paid medicine in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U360	On the agenda - draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Agriculture of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U361	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 6 December of this year, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “On Amendments to the Constitution of the University of Latvia’s Agriculture” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. The University Convention of 17 February 2017 adopted amendments to the University Constitution in order to promote the work of the University. The amendments provide for editorial changes in order to make the text of the Constitution of the University clearer and more precise in accordance with the Law on Higher Education. The amendments also specify the composition of the Senate and supplement the Constitution of the University with the right of the Senate to dispose of state immovable property transferred to the University. This relates to amendments to the Law on Higher Education. Against this background, it is necessary to amend the Constitution of the University. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, please support the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the Latvian University of Agriculture” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U362	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Agriculture of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U363	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days - December 19, 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U364	Thank you. Proposals are due by 19 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U366	On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Management of Used Vehicles”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U367	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Management of Used Vehicles” (No 1078/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at first reading. The nature of the matter is very simple. Like many others, the draft law is related to issues of codification of administrative procedure, where the norms of the Administrative Procedure Law have been transposed into specific sectoral laws. I therefore call on you fellow Members to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U368	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the amendment to the Law on the management of end-of-life vehicles! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U369	Thank you for your support. We will wait until December 19, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U370	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is December 19, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Roads”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U371	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Roads”” (No 879/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has received and examined four proposals for this draft law. The first proposal is that of Member Annie Matīss, who has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U373	The proposal is a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible, which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U375	And, my fellow Members, the third proposal is that of Member Ivars Zarins, which is linked to the road fund. It has to be said that there was a rather large debate in the Commission at once on this proposal. However, given that we recently supported the amendment of the budget package to the Law on Roads, which commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare and approve the plan for our return to the road fund by July next year, these proposals - both proposals 3 and 4 (Member's Ivars Zarins' proposals) - were rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U376	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U377	Colleagues! This proposal is about restoring the road fund and how it would be renewable and how it would function. As Mr Matīss rightly pointed out, since it was tabled, there has been movement in this matter and concrete decisions have been made. The Cabinet is ready to develop a concept of how this will happen. Consequently, these my proposals are no longer relevant, and we agreed within the Commission that I will withdraw these proposals today and the Commission will continue to work on it. We will be preparing in the near future a real concept of the conditions already in place for the renewal of the road fund and its operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U378	Thank you. I closed the debate. So the proposals have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U379	Since Proposals 3 and 4 have been withdrawn, on behalf of the Commission, I ask for your support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U380	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Roads”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U381	Thank you, colleagues. We will wait until December 19, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U382	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is December 19, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U383	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials””. No proposals were received from the Commission for the second reading. The Commission itself drew up five proposals, including in this draft law from the norms of another draft law in the Commission and thus accelerated the process in relation to the issues the solutions of which are necessary for the State Revenue Service. 1. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U385	2. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U387	3. - the proposal of the Commission, which provides for the division of competence between the State Revenue Service and KNAB in the examination of declarations of officials. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U389	4. - associated with the previous. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U391	5. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U393	I therefore call for support to be given at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U394	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U395	For the third reading, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 10 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U396	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 January 2018. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U397	Hello, dear colleagues! So to your attention the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”, second reading. The commission responsible has received 22 proposals. 1. - a editorial proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U399	2. - Legal Bureau's proposal, editorial. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U401	Proposals 3, 4 and 5 concern the period of issuance of emission permits. The first is the proposal by Mr Eglita, Parliamentary Secretary. Partly supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U402	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U403	Therefore, please support 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U405	Please also support 5. - the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Eglita.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U407	6. there is the Līdak Member's proposal. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U409	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Is partially supported, included in 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U410	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U411	8 / 8 - Līdaka's proposal. It is also supported. So please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U412	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U413	Please also support 9. - a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U415	The aid has therefore not been received 10. - Proposal by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Eglita. So please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U416	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Proposal by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Eglita! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -14, for -57, for -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U417	11. - the proposal by Parliamentary Secretary Eglita on the establishment of a list of installations. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U419	12. - the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Eglita. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U421	13. - the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Eglita. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U423	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U424	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U425	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U427	16. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau on transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U429	17. - Līdaka's proposal. Is supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U430	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U431	18. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. Unfortunately, it has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U432	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U433	19. - the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Eglita. Partly supported, included in 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U434	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U435	Therefore, please support the 20th proposal by the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U437	And please also support 21. - Eglita, Parliamentary Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U439	And finally 22. - the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Eglita. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U441	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U442	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U443	January 8, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U444	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 8 January 2018. On the agenda - draft law “On the recognition of the law “On Public Organisations and Their Associations” as invalid”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Līga Kozlovska.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U445	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has received and examined draft law “On recognition of the Law “On Public Organisations and Their Associations”. On 1 January 2004, the Law on Associations and Foundations, which regulates the principles of operation and organisational structure of associations and foundations, as well as the principles of liquidation and reorganisation, came into force. On 29 December 1992, the Law on Public Organisations and their Associations was adopted. During the transitional period, the law determining the procedure for the entry into force of the Law on Society and Foundations shall apply. During this period a number of special laws have been adopted that determine the procedure for the operation of associations and foundations. Thus, for example, the activities of public sport organisations are regulated by the Sport Law. On 22 November 2017, the Saeima adopted the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations, which regulates the scope of the issues referred to in Paragraph 3 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on the Procedure of Associations and Foundations. In view of the topicality of the draft law and the need for mutual alignment of legal norms, on behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be recognised as urgent and to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U446	Please call me! We will vote for recognition as urgent of the draft law “On the declaration of force of the Law “On Public Organisations and Their Associations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the declaration of force of the Law “On Public Organisations and Their Associations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for the second reading and the time for consideration by the Saeima at its sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U447	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of a draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U448	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the recognition of the law “On Public Organisations and Their Associations” as forceless! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. Thank you. The order of business - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2017”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U449	Hello, colleagues! The responsible commission, the Saeima’s Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax), has examined and supported the reallocation of fixed appropriations of 58 686 euros from the “State Social Benefits” sub-programme of the Ministry of Welfare’s basic budget to the “Benefits for Excellent Achievements in Sport” budget sub-programme of the Ministry of Education and Science to ensure the payment of prizes for outstanding achievements in sport in 2017. This reallocation will not affect the financial balance of the national consolidated budget. I invite you to support this appropriation at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U450	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2017””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - Examination of own-initiative proposals. Draft decision “On the collective application of 10 015 Latvian citizens “Reducing VAT on daily necessary, healthy products, increase harmful ones!” “ It Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U451	You respect the Presidium! Honourable Members! In accordance with Section 131.5 (4) and (5) of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, the Commission considered 10 015 collective application of Latvian citizens “To reduce VAT on daily necessary, healthy products, to increase harmful ones!” . The Commission heard the applicant, who invited the Saeima to reduce the rate of value added tax to five percentage points for fresh meat, fresh fish, honey, eggs, whole grain products, Latvia-specific vegetables and fruit, milk and products thereof which have not been further sweetened; on the other hand, to increase the rate of value added tax to 31 % of sweetened drinks and sweetened confectionery, products containing artificially extracted trans-fatty acids and products with an added salt content of more than 1,25 grams per 100 grams. The Applicant's Plenipotentiary stated in the justification that people would have more motivation to buy healthier products for the body, because there would be more availability of quality products and more support for the poor, because often people choose what they can afford - what is cheaper and more accessible. At the same time, this would improve living conditions. The representative provided data from the Disease Prevention and Control Centre for 2016 on health of Latvian citizens. Of more than a thousand people, 21 percent of the population are obese and 31 percent of the population are overweight. Various studies show that there is a large amount of salt consumed in Latvia, which leads to cardiovascular disease. People eating more fruit and vegetables would reduce the risk of diabetes and thus reduce the burden on healthcare. It would also be aid to local producers. They would become more competitive, production would increase. As a follow-up to the discussion, the rapporteurs pointed out that 23 Member States of the European Union are subject to a reduced tax on food or certain food groups. Five Member States of the European Union, including Latvia, do not apply the reduced rate. The representative of the Ministry of Finance gave the Ministry the opinion that according to the Value Added Tax Law, which results from the European Union Directive, there may be one standard rate of value added tax and two reduced rates in Latvia. The standard rate of value added tax in Latvia is 21 per cent, while the reduced tax rate is 12 per cent. The Ministry representative provided data that the reduced value added tax rate of five per cent will be introduced next year for fruit, berries and vegetables typical of Latvia. There will already be two reduced rates of value added tax in the country - five per cent and 12 per cent. And other goods will have to apply a standard rate. Representatives of the Ministry of Health reported that the Ministry of Health supports the application of a reduced rate of value added tax on fresh and unprocessed foods, as this would make them more accessible to Latvian citizens. The representatives of the Ministry of Health noted that the reduced value added tax rate could also be applied, for example, to milk, fresh meat, fish, honey and eggs, because these products mostly form a basket of consumption of Latvian residents. Fiscal tools have a direct impact on people's eating habits. The Ministry of Health has verified that where excise duty is applied to sweetened drinks in Latvia, these products are more expensive and therefore less purchase them. The fact that these products are prohibited from being marketed in schools contributes to a reduction in consumption. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture gave the Ministry's opinion that healthy food can be promoted by actions aimed at promoting the production of healthy products rather than by prohibitions. The Ministry of Agriculture supports the reduction of the value added tax rate on Latvian characteristic fruit and vegetables and also supports the reduction of the value added tax rate on other products. However, for the time being, as a pilot project, a reduction in the value added tax rate was accepted for only Latvian-specific fruit and vegetables. The Ministry of Agriculture stated that, for various reasons, it is not appropriate to apply excise duty on conditionally unhealthy foods, as this would reduce the competitiveness of local producers and contribute to the informal economy. The representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture pointed out that it is positive that Latvia, although slowly, is heading towards healthy food production. For example, on 1 July 2018... laws and regulations determining the maximum content of trans-fatty acids in products will enter into force in Latvia. Having assessed the applicants’ claims and all the information received, the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision of the Saeima prepared together with the Saeima Legal Bureau: 10 015 collective application of Latvian citizens to be recognised as satisfied in the part concerning the claim to reduce the value added tax on vegetables and fruit specific to Latvia, based on the amendments adopted by the Saeima on 22 November 2017, which provides that from 1 January 2018 the reduced value added tax rate of five per cent is applied to fresh fruit, berries and vegetables. On the other hand, based on the opinions of representatives of the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Federation of Food Enterprises of Latvia and other institutions, and taking into account that European Union Directives do not provide for the application of more than one standard rate of value added tax and two reduced rates of value added tax, as well as that the Government-supported State Tax Policy Guidelines for 2018-2021 do not provide for the increase of taxes, reject the part of the collective application for the introduction of a reduced rate of value added tax for the other foodstuffs mentioned in the collective application and increase of the value added tax rate for harmful products.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U452	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the collective application of 10 015 Latvian citizens “Reducing VAT on necessary, healthy products, increase harmful ones!” “! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. But I would like to inform you of the answers to the Members' questions scheduled for today at 5 p.m. On the question of Member Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Morozova, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheraden, in connection with the replies given by the Ministry of Economics on the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 221 Rules on electricity generation and pricing for the production of electricity in cogeneration. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. Member of the Minister for Transport Uldis Augums “On the Provision of Postal Services” of Schiffe, Kleinberg, Platoper, Smiltēna and Ruks. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member of the Parliament Pimenova, Ribakova, Potapakina, Arthur Rubika and Nikonovas Minister for Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis, on the use of minority languages. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Eight Members' questions have been received. Seven are asked to motivate the question. And so on the agenda - the question of the Member Zarina, Adamson, Tretyaka, Nikonova and Zujev, “On the action of the Ministry of Economics regarding the enforcement of its administrative act on compulsory procurement” (No 360/J12). Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U453	Hello, colleagues! The more an economic minister avoids providing answers, the more will be the question of every hidden insanity he has made. As you remember when we debated the budget, we found that the principle of “One Law – One Justice for All” does not apply to the Cabinet of Ministers. These questions are to find out whether or not physics, thermodynamics, laws do not apply to the decisions of the Ministry of Economics, and so we... This is due to the fact that, when issuing its decision on the right to sell electricity in the framework of compulsory procurement, certain conditions are imposed as regards technology, efficiency criteria and so on. On the other hand, we do not find any documents anywhere that these conditions would be met. On the contrary. We find documents that demonstrate that these conditions cannot be fulfilled, at least by compliance with laws of physics or legal laws. So we want to find out which of the laws in this case have been violated or circumvented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U454	Thank you. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Adamsons, Morozovs, Tretjak and Zujevs submitted a question ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions of the Ministry of Economics and decisions taken regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and the competence of the public energy trader’ (No 361/J12). Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U455	In its sensitive replies, the Ministry of Economics claims that an effective and administratively optimal control mechanism for economic operators has been put in place for OIC. As it is effective and optimal, we have seen this from the reports of journalists. We therefore want to clarify the competences and activities of the individual members of this optimal control mechanism. In particular, it concerns a public energy trader entrusted with verifying not only the sale and production of electricity but also the production and use of heat. Given that the public trader is not competent for heating, we want to know how this member of the control mechanism will be able to carry out these controls on heating.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U456	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Nikonovs, Morozovs, Tretjak and Adamson submitted a question ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Ministry of Economics’s actions and decisions concerning the compulsory procurement and start of production of subsidised electricity within the time limits’ (No 362/J12). The reason for the question is given to the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U457	Colleagues! This seemingly simple technical issue has already become such a profound philosophical doctrine that begins to resemble Einstein’s relativity theory. According to the Ministry of Economics, it exercises control over the start of production of electricity in cogeneration within the time limit set by the producer. Electricity generation in cogeneration is started - it means that both electricity and heat are produced. And we don't find any documents... Although the Ministry of Economics claims that production has begun, while the documents it has submitted to us show fairly that no production - neither heat nor electricity - takes place. Then we try to understand and ask the Ministry of Economics for it to tell us how it sees electricity generation in cogeneration. Is electricity produced, or is heat produced, or is both produced, or is there no one to produce? What is the case with this electricity generation in cogeneration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U458	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Morozovs, Niconovs and Zujevs submitted a question ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity (OI) and control groups’ (No 363/J12).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U459	In its reply, the Ministry of Economics claims that the control process involves on-site visits by the control team. They have happened in a very peculiar way! When journalists leave, they find something else, whereas the Ministry of Economics has found something quite different. That is why we ask: precisely how many visits have been made and what controls have been carried out, and what have they actually checked? Because we have information that no control group has been present before the journalists appeared. The Ministry of Economics, in its reply, claims that such cases are happening - there are visits on the spot. We therefore ask the Ministry of Economic Affairs to provide specific information - when and where these groups have been tested and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U460	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Morozovs, Nikonovs and Zuvėvs submitted a question “On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and opinions of auditors” (No 364/J12). Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U461	In its reply, the Ministry of Economics devotes a very important role to the opinions of the auditors when it comes to this optimal, no less than the ideal control mechanism provided to control these OIC producers. We would therefore like to clarify the responsibility of these auditors for the accuracy of the data provided. Does the Ministry of Economics really believe that all these auditors have given real data and that they are really motivated to do so? Is the motivation to submit false data, however, more than the responsibility for true data? We very much hope that the Ministry of Economics will be able to answer this question and will also add at least one opinion from such auditors so that we can make sure that the information provided by the auditors is verified objectively, fairly and comprehensively.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U462	The question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Nikonovs, Morozovs, Tretjak and Zujevs submitted a question ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and the moratorium imposed by the Government’ (No 365J12). Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Subtotal: “Zarin! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U463	This is another interesting story that we ask the Ministry of Economics to clarify with answers. On the one hand, the Ministry declares that (Noise. (See the box below.) a moratorium on so-called OIC permits has been introduced since 2012. At the same time, we see: one regulation introduces a moratorium, the other does not. And right at the time when one rule introduces a moratorium on the other, issuing permits - apologies! - Going to the devil's break. Most permits were issued just when the moratorium seemed to have been established. Then we ask the Ministry of Economics to explain how it has come. Colleagues! If you do not like listening to what has been said on these issues, make sure that your minister provides meaningful and clear answers! Because questions will be prepared about every answer, every aspect of uncertainty or every aspect where he has lied or provided conflicting information. So it is up to you only to sit here for as long as you listen to the Minister for Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U464	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Niconovs, Tretjaka and Zuvėvs submitted a question ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding the compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and on the establishment of a start-up and deadline for the right of the operator to sell the electricity produced within the framework of compulsory procurement’ (No 366/J12). Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U465	This is another issue to which the Ministry of Economics has provided obviously confused and legally uncorrected answers. In particular, it is the time at which the OIC manufacturer starts to run out. When does that 10-year-old end for him? In its reply, the Ministry of Economics refers to paragraph 53.1 of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No 221. The provisions entered into force only in July this year. We humbly ask the Minister for Economics to tell him once again when he came into force... by which clauses we set when this deadline comes into force if the manufacturer has started production before July this year. I can tell you that almost one hundred percent of all have started this production this year... not one hundred percent, but 99 percent of producers have started before...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U466	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Niconovs, Tretyaka and Zujevs submitted the question “On the decisions taken on 10 December of this year on the information contained in TV3’s “Nothing Personal” programme” (No 367/J12). None of the Members has asked for the words to be motivated. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Janis Vucanas.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U467	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and the Social and Labour Commission! The joint meeting of the two commissions will begin at 13.50 a.m., in half an hour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U468	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U469	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Nelly Kleinberga, Rihards Melgailis, Imants Vadnieks and Mihail Zemlinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-14-PT12-457-U470	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
