ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 14 September 2017. We are honored that today we will be addressed at the Saeima sitting by George Ferry, a spy of the Senate of His Excellency of the Canadian Parliament, who is on official visit to Latvia. Canada is a very important ally, partner and friend for Latvia. We highly appreciate Canada's great contribution to strengthening Latvia's security. Please, Mr. Canadian Spyer, you have your name.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U2	Madam President, Dear Members of the Saeima! Dear colleagues of the Senate, Senator Doil, Senator Bovij! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! People of Latvia! Thank you for your warm welcome to the Saeima. In April 2016, I had the honour and the pleasure of receiving the Speaker of the Saeima Mūrnieki and the Latvian delegation to the Canadian Parliament. During the visit President Mūrniece made an offer to visit this wonderful country and, as you all know, it is difficult to refuse to Mrs Mūrniece when she asks. So today I stand in front of you and I'm proud to have the tie of the Saeima. I have the honour and the pleasure of addressing you and of speaking in these historic parliamentary sittings. This week I visited your wonderful country for the first time and I must admit that it is a great pleasure to be in a country that is similar in many ways to my home country, Canada. There are two things that come to mind immediately if we talk about similarities. This is about the harsh winters and, of course, about our love and enthusiasm for the hockey. As you all know, this is our favorite winter sport, which makes the arena turn into a place where athletes compete and cooperate with each other. Over the years, many talented Latvian hockeys have played in the National Hockey League and 10 Latvian hockeys have even played and gone to ice as part of Canadian teams. If we talk about the other side of the ocean, about Latvia, we have to say that the Latvian team is currently trained by a Canadian who will lead the Latvian selection to the next Olympic Games. Of course, without cold time and hockey, we are united by many other things. If we are not talking about ice arenas, over the last 25 years Canada and Latvia have established inextricable links based on common values, common interests and common goals. Therefore, it is not surprising that Canada is home to one of the largest and most influential foreign Latvian communities. Most Latvians arrived in Canada seeking refuge after the Second World War. Since then, Latvians have been fully involved in Canadian society and contribute significantly to our country's economy and culture. The Latvian Diaspora joined the Canadians at the 150th anniversary of the confederation. And we are sure that next year they will join you at the celebration of the centenary of Latvia. Because only by working together and strengthening the friendship between peoples will we be able to make the world's places brighter individually and together. I would like to express my joy about Latvia and Canada – countries that respect the rule of law, states that strengthen, enrich democratic foundations, states that seek to give all members of society an opportunity and increase tolerance. As Chairman of the Senate of the Canadian Parliament, I am pleased that we continue this parliamentary cooperation, which resumed again or was renewed in 1991. Canada was the first of the G7 countries to recognise Latvia's independence in 1991 and we have supported Latvia's path to democracy since its very beginnings. We have also seen the rapid expansion of bilateral relations, and we will continue to support Latvia in the future as well. As I pointed out to President Mourniece when she visited Canada last year, we are proud that there is an open and direct dialogue between our parliaments. These contacts strengthen relations between our countries and enable us to be determined in fulfilling the promises we have made between ourselves. Working on complex global issues, we need to work shoulder to shoulder. Given the fragility of the situation in different parts of the world, cooperation and mutual assistance have gained much greater importance than ever before. Dear Legislators! Interparliamentary relations are only part of the close relationship between Canada and Latvia. Over the last 25-26 years, our countries have strengthened links in education, trade and security. I have dedicated my career to highlighting the importance of education, sharing knowledge with other countries and involving young people. Canada and Latvia are, of course, first-ranking in this regard. We offer young people a variety of opportunities. We sow confidence in the future in them, and we try to look at the future of our country through a youth prism or perspective. Various work and study exchange programmes, the Youth Mobility Agreement allows us to share this knowledge, ensure the exchange of knowledge, thus enabling us to fight against intrusiveness and increase cooperation and innovation. International cooperation programmes in the field of education and employment will allow us to grow new leaders in Canada and Latvia. More importantly, this treaty will facilitate personal contacts that will allow for much more active diplomatic contacts in the future. I would also like to emphasise today that we are working very closely on a number of different issues, especially given that many in the world are currently trying to build walls or walls. In turn, we – Latvians and Canadians – try to break down different walls or walls. Last year, trade between our countries exceeded EUR 186 million, which is quite an impressive figure, but of course it is not the limit of our opportunities. We can make a significant increase in this indicator. And Canada also welcomed and welcomed Latvia's accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. By strengthening economic contacts, we need to be aware that partnerships increase the prosperity of our countries and we can do much more together than ourselves alone. We are also grateful that Latvia was the first European country to approve the free trade agreement with Canada (CETA) by showing its support or emphasis on its friendly links. We are really deeply grateful to Latvia for this. The entry into force of this treaty will allow the existing barriers to free trade to be dismantled, and this will certainly enable our countries to become the leading countries in terms of innovation and make full use of their economic potential - creating new jobs, reducing the costs of various resource services, and expanding the choice of both Latvians and Canadians in the coming years. Our countries cooperate very successfully, very productively, and in particular we cooperate successfully within NATO. If we are talking about diplomatic contacts and their diversity, cooperation in NATO and work on security issues is one of the most important diplomatic issues. As the founding state of NATO, we are pleased that we can continue to participate actively and help our cooperation partners in Latvia. In 2004, Latvia joined NATO with a joy and Canada actively supported it. I would like to emphasise in particular that Canada considers Latvia not only as a cooperation partner within NATO, but also as a friend. And as friends and partners, our countries must continue this close cooperation in the future as well. We have also jointly participated in international security missions in Afghanistan. We are now working together to increase peace and stability in the Baltic region. The Latvian Saeima is committed to significantly increasing the military or defence potential of Latvia. The centre of excellence of NATO Strategic Communication is located in Riga, which plays a very important role in solving the problems of modern disinformation and propaganda. As one of the leading countries, Canada has the honour of chairing this international battle group of Albanian, Italian, Polish, Slovenian and Spanish soldiers. This group, led by Canada, is located in Latvia within the framework of NATO's expanded permanent presence programme - the programmes for Central and Eastern Europe. The presence of Canadian soldiers and military equipment in Latvia confirms our commitment to support Latvia and its values - ideals and principles that underpin NATO. At a time when geopolitical uncertainty is growing, it is important for Canada, Latvia and all members of the Alliance to unite and be united in the face of regional and global challenges. Parliamentary relations are very important to ensure this cooperation is based on clear, understandable principles. We need to exchange information and organise mutual visits so that we can understand this situation better and fulfil our responsibilities as Members of Parliament and make the best possible decisions in favour of our countries. This is particularly true in areas such as security and protection. I also have the honour to continue to build on what my predecessors have begun and to strengthen the existing dialogue. At a time when the world is faced with unprecedented changes, these close ties allow Parliamentarians to tackle global challenges in a constructive way. The problems we are facing now also require a uniform response from us. Whether it is peace and security, climate change, economic development, we all need to work together to find effective solutions. I am pleased that in many respects Canada and Latvia support the same ideals and priorities. Over 25 years in diplomatic relations we have strengthened our cooperation within NATO and various other international organisations, developed trade relations, encouraged cooperation in the field of education, as well as facilitated parliamentary contacts. Not only are we happy about the hockey in both countries, and not only are we cold, we are really friends and partners. Honourable Members! We need to work together to reject party interests so that we can best serve our countries. After all, we are united by the desire to provide our compatriots - Canadians, Latvians - with the best living conditions. I hope that in the future we will be able to successfully develop the already close links between our parliaments and make them even wider and more active. And I hope that, without pity and energy, we will work together to ensure that our citizens have better living conditions, that our young people have a more promising future and that we live in a safer world. Once again, I would like to thank you for the honor and opportunity to address the Saeima today. The life of the sun for Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U3	Thank you very much to His Excellency Spyer of the Canadian Parliament Senate, George Fry. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. Changes tabled to the agenda of the Bureau meeting The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the change of the date of the law “Amendments to the Law on the State Administration Structure” (No.577/Lp12) of the re-reading of the Saeima sitting from 21 September 2017 to 16 November 2017. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to change the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application requests that changes be made to the agenda of the meeting and that it include a statement entitled ‘On the approval of the mandate of the 12th Saeima Member’ before the Bureau reports. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the 12th Saeima Member of Renāra Putniņa for a period of time, while Members elected from the list of candidates in the Riga electoral region fulfil their ministerial duties” before the reports of the Bureau. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting, including draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” (No 958/Lp12) and alternative law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” (No 1024/Lp12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. The next item on the agenda is the approval and termination of the parliamentary term. The mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima was approved. The mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima was approved. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U4	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima has received an application from the 12th Saeima Member Ilze Viņķele regarding the establishment of a Member's mandate. The Saeima at its meeting on 5 November 2014 confirmed the mandate of the Member of Veikis Srollis for a period of time, while the Members elected from the list of candidates in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers. Pursuant to the order of the Saeima, Veiko Spolitis was invited to join the Saeima, and he agreed. It is therefore considered that Veiko Spolitis is in the composition of the 12th Saeima, not temporarily, but permanently.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U5	Thank you to the committee rapporteur. On the agenda - draft decision “On the approval of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate for a period of time, while Members elected from the list of candidates in the Riga constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U6	In its meeting of 13 September this year, the committee of the Saeima's Mandates, Ethics and Applications discussed the application of Member Ilze Viņķele regarding the establishment of the 12th Saeima Member's Mandate. According to the order of the Saeima, Veiko Spolitis is invited to join the Saeima, and he agreed. On the other hand, the next candidate for a party's Unity from the Riga electoral district list is Renārs Putniņš, who has agreed to take up the post of Member of the Saeima for a period of time while Members elected from the party's Unity List of Candidates in the Riga electoral district fulfil their ministerial duties.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U7	Thank you. I call on Renar Putniņš to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U8	When I take office as a Member of the Saeima, Renārs Putniņš swears to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and in the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U9	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. ( Renārs Putniņš signs a solemn promise.) Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the Member of the 12th Saeima of Renara Putniņa, while Members elected from the list of candidates in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to the Saeima Member Renārs Putniņš and I invite you to take a seat in the Saeima's meeting room. (Applause) On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On the Second Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Law of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Notary Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cruanzdependence Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have no reservations. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the order of business - consideration of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Mediation Law”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendment to the Mediation Law”. The Legal Commission received two proposals. Both proposals are those of Member Valdis Kalnozols. Proposal No 1. This was not supported by the Commission, and I will set out the main arguments why the Commission did not support either this proposal or the next one. So Mr. Nunozol proposes mandatory mediation. It should be noted that the nature of mediation is based on the principle of voluntaryity. It is true, Mr Kalnozol proposed that this mandatory mediation be introduced in cases of dispute settlement relating to the protection of children's rights. However, in the European Union, if we look at this, only Italy has compulsory mediation, and also Italy has the opportunity to stop the mediation process at any time. Of course, we can say: why should we look towards other countries, look at their experience? We have the opportunity to make decisions ourselves. However, mediation is, by its very nature, a sufficiently new legal institution that is included in the regulatory framework. A careful evaluation is therefore required. It should also be noted that already now the Ministry of Justice together with the Court Administration is implementing the European Social Fund project and mediation is one of the issues that are investigated and analysed. That is, how mediation can help the parties who are the primary task, and how the court can also be relieved. It should be noted, among other things, that a working group at the level of foreign experts has been set up for the evaluation of the issues and it is planned that it will already be possible, in the coming year, to map out the experience of other countries in relation to mandatory mediation as well. It should also be noted that compulsory mediation also requires funding from the state budget. In addition, it was stressed in the Commission that pilot projects have already been launched in 2016, i.e. free consultations of mediators are available in some courts of Latvia and either party can apply for consultations and find out what mediation is and how it can help not only with regard to family disputes, which is of course essential. Examples were also mentioned. Five paid sessions are currently scheduled, and mediation has been used in 180 disputes in 2016. It should also be pointed out that Mr Nanozol, when preparing these proposals and submitting the third reading, has not assessed all possible situations. For example, Members asked what to do in cases where both parties do not want to speak with one another at all - how will compulsory mediation tackle this problem? It should also be noted, for example, that the Civil Procedure Law states that a court may apply a temporary protection measure in case of violence, and one such means is a ban on approaching or a ban on meeting with another, if this may be said, a disputing party. So, in this case, there is a court ruling, and how can compulsory mediation be applied, Mr Nanozol could not answer it either. Finally, if we are talking about improving the quality of the legislative process, then, of course, it should be pointed out that this proposal was tabled at third reading, and even if it were to be supported, there would be a need for a number of amendments to other laws and regulations. Consequently, on the basis of these arguments, the Commission did not support the proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U11	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U12	Hello, brothers and sisters! Section 4 of the Law on the Protection of Children’s Rights. Objectives for the protection of the rights of the child. ‘ The rights of the child shall be protected in order to achieve the following objectives:... (3) the orientation of the child to the family as a fundamental value of the organisation of society and as one of the fundamental values of society and of the individual.’ What is the reality, dear friends? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “A lot! Different!” ) The 2011 census shows that 104 thousand children or 30.5 per cent live in single mothers' families in Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: "Well?Oh, no, no, no, no, “) 30.5! In families of cohabiting partners there are 55 thousand children, or 16 percent, while in single father families there are 14.9 thousand children, or 4.4 percent of the total number of children under 18. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “What have these men done?” Each third child in Latvia lives in a single family. This also means greater vulnerability from an economic point of view, such as greater risk of poverty, according to experts. We have a nightmare in our society – when we need to create children, we are one of the best to each other, but when problems arise, we say: “Strunt with children! I have to split up! There are no other solutions! He is the worst of the worst!” First of all, we have our insults, our feelings, our thoughts and so on, but in fact, children are just... children we only have sex by-products. I understand very well that my proposal is not binding on lawyers, because family disputes are a good source of revenue for lawyers and psychologists. Bourney courts have the opportunity to take a bribe and stand on either side of the older one or the other. Compulsory Mediation (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Actions, please!” ) is not interested. In fact, our court in Latvia has the so-called competition principle: each party tries to prove how demonic the other party is and how to limit the interests of the other parent. And the interests of children, who need both parents as a model of imitation, coherent relationships of both parents as a model of imitation, are ignored at the very root. There is no time and need to wait for years, to study something that is self - understandable: parental disputes, a family dispute mechanism that causes psychological trauma to children. Today and now! Unfortunately, these psychological injuries will affect not only children but also future generations. Today, in the case of family disputes, there is mostly a legal fight where the child is just a weapon to avenge the other parent. The system does not make us think first and find a compromise for the child. Rather, there is the right not to speak, not to decide, because the country will come and decide for the benefit of a more aggressive lawyer. Sorry, official view of Riga orphan's court... The true interests of children are in fact touched. Yes, there are exceptions! Indifferent parents, violence - both physical and emotional - which we are rarely talking about, but it is not a reason not to accept these amendments, because in most cases there is a banal struggle for personal egoism. If the concept of mediation does not go hand in hand with the term "obligatory" - well, let's do it differently: "integral mediation"! But let us do it now, not for years! In research, we are baffling and looking forward to Europe: as those gentlemen will say, so let us servants do! Let us end our children's life today, in fact - the future society of Latvia! Undoubtedly, it would also be appropriate to amend our law on family courts, as is the case in the United States. Please support our amendments to the law and stop after children's fate and psychological trauma to children! Let us really take care of our children, not hypocritically saying that children are the key to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U13	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U14	Yeah, thank you. Of course, I have to agree with what Mr. Kalnozol said about the objective set by the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, which we must obviously keep in mind at all times, but at the same time understand that with two proposals... probably this objective will not be fully achieved in this way, simply by confirming at third reading. And the other thing. On behalf of the Commission, I will allow my apologies to be made here to the members of the family courts for the insult that was made on the part of Mr Kalnozol without concrete evidence. Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the Commission not to support proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 3, against - 68, refraining from - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U16	Thank you. On the basis of similar arguments and given that these proposals are linked, the Commission did not support the proposals. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U17	So they're calling for no support... Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U18	Thank you. We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law on the amendment to the Mediation Law, third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on Mediation in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U20	Good morning, colleagues! I propose to you the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service” at third reading, which has been examined by the Commission, and the Commission asks for your support. Four proposals have been received. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča is on the phone. Depp. A.Kamiņš: “Barča!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 October 2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (Single CMO Regulation) (OJ L 299,
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U22	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U24	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U26	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice that has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U27	Members also support proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U28	Therefore, please support the whole draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the order of business - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of EU-wide Commercial Companies and EU-wide Commercial Groups”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Hosams Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U30	Good morning, colleagues! We are working on amendments to the law on information and consultation for EU-wide companies and employees of EU-wide groups of companies. The Commission has not received any proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the third final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U31	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Investor Protection Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U32	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We are working on a legislative package where the main draft is "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments". The first in this package is an amendment to the Investor Protection Act. As no proposal has been received by the Commission at third reading, I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on Investor Protection in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Financial Security, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U34	Also, no proposal has been received by the Commission for its third reading for draft law No 925/Lp12. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on financial security! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on settlement finality in payment and financial instrument settlement systems”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U36	Similarly, no proposal has been received by the Commission for its third reading for draft law No 927/Lp12. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on settlement finality in payment and financial instrument settlement systems! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U38	Colleagues, we work on draft law No 926/Lp12. Three proposals were received or developed at the third reading. ( The box “Six Proposals! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 October 2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (Single CMO
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U39	Six proposals:
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U40	How much did I say? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You said three!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U41	There are six proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U42	I'm sorry. Six proposals: 1. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U44	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U46	3. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U48	4. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This is not supported by the Commission, as such a provision has already been incorporated into another financial instrument market law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U49	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U50	5. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission has partially supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U51	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U52	And the final one is 6. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U54	As all the proposals have been examined, I call on the Commission to support the draft law at third, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U56	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”. We look at the draft law at second reading. The Commission has not received any proposal. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U58	October 16th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U59	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 October this year. On the agenda - draft law “On recognition of the Constitutional Law of Riga Academy of Pedagogy and Education””, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U60	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! On 3 April of this year, the Cabinet of Ministers issued Order No.164 that the educational institution “Riga Academy of Pedagogy and Education Management” established by the State on 1 October of this year is added to the institution “University of Latvia”. On 5 September this year, the Commission of Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “On the declaration of force of the Law “On the Constitutions of the Riga Academy of Education and Education”” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers” and supported it and asked to declare it urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition as urgent of the draft law “On the recognition of the Constitution of the Riga Academy of Education and Education Management”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U62	Thank you. The Commission is therefore also asking for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U63	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On the recognition as forceless at first reading of the law “On the Constitution of Riga Academy of Education and Education Management”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U64	Colleagues! Due to the fact that no one objected, I asked on behalf of the Commission to support the draft law “On the declaration of the Constitutionality of the Riga Academy of Pedagogy and Education Management” as well as the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U65	Do Members have objections to the examination of the draft law at the Saeima sitting without examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “On recognition as forceless” of the Law “On the Constitutionality of Riga Academy of Education and Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U66	Thank you. Have a nice day!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U67	On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U68	Good morning, honourable colleagues! For almost nine years Latvia has acceded to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, and in 2015 a second – additional protocol was opened for signature in Riga. This Additional Protocol also provided for the criminalisation of acts not previously recognised as criminal offences, namely the receipt of training for terrorism, travelling abroad for terrorist purposes, the financing, organisation and promotion of such travel. This year, in May, Latvia ratified this additional protocol, and now specialists have prepared and the Cabinet has accepted this draft law. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U69	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U70	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Undoubtedly, the fight against terrorism, the fight against this evil is unfortunately a problem that our world's citizens will face in at least the next 15 to 20 years. And we must make every effort and opportunity to fight this evil successfully. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption was also the co-responsible commission for the examination of this draft law. But what does this bill not satisfy me? And I call on the Legal Commission to take this into account when examining this draft law and when examining the proposals put forward for second reading. Look at Article 79.1. Terrorism. ‘ Explosion, incineration, use of nuclear, chemical, biological, bacteriological, toxic or other weapons of mass destruction...’, followed by the following: . I am not satisfied personally with these scissors, this opportunity to manipulate. Thus, the territory of a large country has been poisoned, people have died, but there is an opportunity to sit here for some time in prison. In my opinion, what is involved in terrorism must be applied here: penalties must be imposed so that a person is aware that he will spend his entire life in prison. And this also applies to the whole bill. Unfortunately, this is our policy. What's most shocking to me? Here, Mr. Curry has also mentioned new cools that are being criminalized... Now, listen to me! Rule 79.4 — The recruitment, training and training of a person for terrorism. Here its sanctions are, in my opinion, very strange: 'The acquisition or receipt of instructions, knowledge or practical skills for the purpose of implementing or promoting terrorism... - penalties by deprivation of liberty for up to seven years...' Listen, is this normal? In my opinion, these penalties are inadequate land. Next. The second paragraph of this Article: ‘For recruitment of a person for terrorism or for involvement in a terrorist group or for training in terrorism, the penalty shall be deprivation of liberty for a period of up to 10 years and subject to probationary supervision for a period of up to three years.’ Colleagues! So a teacher who teaches performers gets much less punishment than his student who has performed this act of terrorism. However, I call on the Legal Commission to give serious consideration to the appropriate penalties. These penalties must be very severe so that the courts make harsh decisions, so that there are fewer and fewer people among us who dream of such a case at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U71	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U72	Yeah. Dear colleagues, In the Legal Commission, too, we discussed a few articles, even the same content of denying terrorism referred to in the last article - what that means. And we understand that for the second reading there will also be proposals. Thank you also to Mr. Adamson. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U73	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U74	We invite you to submit proposals by 25 September (including).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U75	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U76	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, both representatives of the State Language Centre and representatives of the Legal Bureau were heard. I will briefly remind you that the draft law provides for a review of the amounts of penalties for non-compliance with the requirements of the state language, as well as for an extension of the range of subjects. It should be noted that, at present, the law as the subject of liability is essentially a defined natural person and not a legal person. And, as the representatives of the State Language Centre also pointed out, in practice there are often situations where a legal person's representative receives a penalty, whose responsibility is probably quite contingent in a particular case. This draft law also provides for the imposition of additional penalties on public officials. In the event of repeated failure by a public official to comply with the requirements of the law concerning the use of the state language, an additional penalty is proposed, which provides for the withdrawal of the right to hold the office of public official on a temporary basis. And, of course, that is to some extent innovation. There was a debate in the Commission about this project, both of a political nature, which I will not now refer to, and of a legal nature. These discussions of a legal nature. So there are two cases to which the commission paid attention and which is also actually a homework for the Ministry of Justice at the moment. In particular, there were discussions on the proposed new ninth paragraph of Article 201.35, on the practical application of this paragraph. In this regard, the commission gave the Ministry of Justice the task to discuss with the persons involved whether this norm is not precise and possibly also excluded from the draft law. The Legal Bureau indicated that in certain cases the maximum amount of the penalty should be assessed, namely its proportionality compared to other penalties, to which the Commission also drew attention and invited the Ministry of Justice to evaluate it. In general, as I said, the Commission supported this draft law, and I also invite the Saeima to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U77	Thank you. Let us start a debate. on behalf of the Group. - Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U78	Good morning, dear colleagues! Members of the Saeima Group say that every citizen living in Latvia should learn the state language, and its use should be welcomed. However, this can only be achieved through democratic means. Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia, which provides for more severe penalties for non-use of the state language, demonstrate the lack of understanding of democratic values of the authors of these amendments and the inability to find tools for the integration of minorities and motivation to use the Latvian language. Motivation should start first with a favourable attitude towards the people themselves, as well as with their education, including on the language, its multilaterality and on literature. On the other hand, politicians currently in power have long and purposefully been seen as a key tool in their efforts to disdain, limit the native language of the Gentiles, in all kinds of intimidation of minorities and to show them their place. Such a specific approach casts doubt on the real aims of the authors of amendments to the law and ultimately risks achieving a completely opposite effect. We believe that it is impossible to teach to love and respect language by repressive methods such as these amendments to the law. That is why we cannot support them either. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U79	Name to Member Alexander Jakikov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U80	Hello, dear colleagues! I call for this draft law not to be supported at first reading, as I would like to draw attention to these circumstances. First. Statistics on violations in the national language field do not show an increase in the number of violations, but about the work of the National Language Centre. These data also show that irregularities are not of a systematic nature and are largely non-repetitive. The infringements are not interrelated. On the basis of statistics, only one conclusion can be drawn: the existing legislation works effectively and there is no need to change it. Secondly. The authors of the draft law argue that it differentiates between the liability of natural and legal persons. But this is a technical issue within the existing sanctions. There is therefore no need to increase fines. Thirdly. Draft laws always attract those to whom the draft law is aimed. In this case, they include entrepreneurs, employees, employers and trade unions. They were not invited, and we do not even know him “for” or “for” arguments. Fourth. Any improvement in legislation provides for optimal path choices. The authors of the draft law offer a highly repressive law based on fear of punishment. This runs counter to the fundamental principle of a democratic state: the deliberate respect of the law by citizens. Five. Any draft law not only provides for positive but also negative impacts on society, including on the economy and national minorities. There is no opinion on this. Also on the proposal of the authors of the law - to supplement Article 201.35 with the ninth paragraph in the following wording: "On the transmission or service of prospectuses, newsletters, catalogues and other materials to natural or legal persons in addition to the state language in a foreign language without the request of such persons -..." Situation. I got a tract on the street. I can or don't take it. In this way, I express my will or request for information. After reviewing the booklet, I discarded it or kept it, thus making my request again. At home, I read it carefully or simply look at it. In this way, I have already made three requests for information. It's working. Why else should we regulate? How will this norm work in practice? The booklet distributor will have two options. The first is to stop me and, holding the button behind, to explain something. Will it work? Of course not. The second option is to present a booklet in the state language. But if there's a foreign tourist in my place? If there are invitations to take part in a tour or to visit a ticket museum, and so on, we will lose the tourism industry with this rule. Next situation. Mailbox. By its very nature, the mailbox is the place where the information was received, or the request for information. Realising its right to receive information in this way, the mailbox holder is also able to restrict the distributor of the information at the same time. That's what he does when he reads or does not read this correspondence. It's working. Why else is there a need to regulate? Another option. Booklet in state language. But if the mailbox is owned by a foreign student, a worker, a national of another country with a permanent residence in our country, or by the same tourist? He needs the items provided in the booklet, but he is neither able to understand this information nor to buy it. Losses on trade and budget! It is also the case if such a person receives notice, for example, of open door days, sales, lotteries and so on. Loss to the state again! Such situations can be counted infinitely. Conclusion: statutory requirements will cause real damage to the state. In the light of all the above, I call once again on you not to support this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U81	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U82	Dear colleagues, All of us here, together with you, have solemnly promised to strengthen Latvian as the only language of the country. However, I believe that increasing the penalties, which are mainly the subject of this draft law, will not contribute to strengthening the state language and the cohesion of society. I really wonder that this draft law, without such fundamental discussions, without mentioning foreign experience, without economic justification for increasing penalties, was so easy and with so many votes supported by the Legal Commission. All Members, though, were not present. For example, Mr. Judin was not. Perhaps he would be happy to tell us his thoughts today. In the motivation we heard from the Legal Commission, I have heard a commitment to fight against certain politicians. I believe that using language as a weapon in a political struggle would not be the right tactic. This will undermine the language as our common value. Finally, by increasing the penalties for violations of the language law, you, colleagues, notifiers, also turn to our compatriots abroad who are planning to return or have already returned to Latvia. And the recent research conducted at the University of Latvia shows that among the other problems facing our countrymen when returning to Latvia, there is also the problem that, while they have worked in England or other countries, they have forgotten a little language. That is why this great rigour is also an appeal to our emigrants. I call on you, instead of increasing penalties, to better assess and clarify how widely language courses are available, how attractive we are in teaching children the language and what further positive steps should be taken to strengthen language. Dear colleagues, I call on you not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U83	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U84	Yes! Dear colleagues, Some comments or clarifications and additions. I would definitely like to point out (and no one spoke about this at the commission's sitting) that this draft law does not in any way target people abroad. That is first. Secondly. The State Language Centre at the Legal Commission informed that they have changed their policy very dramatically at the moment and in no way is the purpose of imposing a penalty, because in the case of an initial violation, the State Language Centre usually negotiates with the infringer. It should also be noted that one of the fundamental principles of a democratic state is respect for fundamental laws and laws. This may not have been mentioned by colleagues here, but it was discussed in the Commission by listening to the Parliamentary Secretary of VARAM, namely, the trends that are now appearing in individual municipalities. As we know, municipal members must manage the national language at the appropriate level, and there should be no doubt that these municipal members are familiar with the national language. At the same time, however, there is a tendency not to use the national language consistently as required by law. That is why it is already an issue of attitude. So this is another additional argument put forward by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U85	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -23, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U86	Yes! Thank you. As I said, two tasks have been given to the Ministry of Justice, so the deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U87	Thank you. Proposals are due by 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U88	Hello! This draft law is linked to the amendments already in force to the Forest Law. The Ministry of Defence currently has 7660 hectares of forest land. Of these, 4520 hectares are taken up by the forest, while the rest of the forest land is covered by bogs, pavements, and sands. When managing forest land in possession, the Ministry of Defence, as well as all institutions, must follow the procedure established by the Law on the Sale of Property of a Public Person. That is, round timber cannot be auctioned in a simplified manner. At first, they must be offered to their subordinate institutions. If they do not need this material, it is offered free of charge to public persons and public benefit organisations, and only if no one applies, timber may be auctioned. In order to be able to implement more quickly and efficiently the trees harvested in forest land under the Ministry of Defence and in the land register, it is necessary to amend the law on disposal of public property by supplementing the third paragraph of Article 2 and stating that the provisions of the law on disposal of public property shall not apply to the disposal of the products obtained in state forest land and entered in the land register on the person of the Ministry of Defence of the State name, as well as establishing that the provisions of the Article are applicable to the disposal of the products, provided that the provisions of the agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the public limited liability company “Latvian State Forests” are implemented. By transferring the right of felling to the public limited liability company “Latvia’s State Forests”, free competition for development is maintained. Forestry and logistics services are hired within the framework of procedures established by the Law on Public Procurement. The harvested wood is marketed at market monitoring prices. The profits are consolidated in the calculation of the total profit and loss of the joint stock company “Latvia’s State Forests”, on the basis of which the dividends payable to the State will be calculated. The Commission has examined this draft law and calls on the Saeima to recognise the draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U89	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U90	The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U91	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U92	The Commission calls for proposals to be submitted by 19 September of this year and to be examined by the Saeima at its meeting on 5 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U93	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - September 19, this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - October 5, this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U95	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Service”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U96	Good morning, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” at first reading. These amendments concern the codification of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. Administrative irregularities to be maintained in this area have been included and the competent authorities to which they will be subject will be subject to supervision in the application of administrative penalties. The main infringements in this area, colleagues, are the marketing of decoders or applications that provide users with access to illegal content and servers where such content can be obtained. We have examined this bill at the Saeima Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, and I ask for it to be supported at first reading on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U97	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U98	Colleagues, if you have valuable proposals to improve the Protected Service Law and make these amendments, please submit them by 19 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U99	Thank you. Proposals are due by 19 September this year. Dear colleagues, Members Straujuma, Āboltiņa, Upenieks, Adamovich, Harju and others ask for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include in it the draft decision ‘On the withdrawal of Member Laimdotas Straujuma from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Adamovich, Āboltiņa, Upenieks, Abu Meri, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Alda Adamovičs from the National Administration and Municipal Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Adamovich, Āboltiņa, Upenieks, Harju, Valainis and others ask for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Astrida Harjus from the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Straujuma, Āboltiņa, Upenieks, Adamovich, Harju and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include a draft decision on the election of Member Laimdotas Straujuma at the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Adamovich, Āboltiņa, Upenieks, Abu Meri, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision on the election of Member Alda Adamovičs to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Straujuma, Āboltiņa, Upenieks, Adamovich, Harju and others ask for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include in it the draft decision “On the election of Member Astrida Harjus to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Putniņš, Āboltiņa, Upenieks, Adamovich, Harju and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision on the election of Mr Renārs Putniņš as a member of the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (tax). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Chemicals”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U100	Hello, dear colleagues! To your attention - amendments to the Chemical Law, first reading. The draft law clarifies the areas of responsibility of the controlling institutions, namely what chemicals will be controlled by the institutions of the Ministry of Health, what - the Consumer Rights Protection Centre and so on. It is also specified under which regulation the classification of chemicals will be carried out. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The commission responsible has examined this draft law and is asking for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U101	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Chemicals"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U102	September 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U103	Thank you. Proposals are due by 19 September this year. On the agenda - draft law on consumer protection law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U104	Colleagues! We have seen amendments to the Consumer Rights Protection Law in the Commission, and these amendments are related to two fundamental changes. The first one is the codification of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. That is the same objective as the amendments to the Protected Service Act. This includes administrative infringements to be maintained in the field of the provision of commercial services and consumer protection, which are currently laid down in the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, and the competent authorities that will be subject to supervision in the application of administrative penalties are identified. The second key objective is to introduce a directive on consumer credit agreements. The draft law will ensure consumer withdrawal rights in relation to consumer credit as well as in relation to goods and services. Colleagues! The Parliamentary Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law and calls for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U106	Colleagues! I call for constructive proposals to be submitted by 5 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U107	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 October of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on Public Transport Services, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U108	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Transport Services” (No 940/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft laws for the first reading. This draft law contains two main points. In particular, the draft law is intended to be supplemented by the inclusion of light vehicles in the list of public vehicles. As we know, especially in areas with low population density and low passenger numbers, this is often the case: although there are only a few passengers, they are carried by large buses. At the moment, passenger transport by minibus and possibly by passenger cars will also be allowed. Therefore, in order for these passenger services to be available in rural areas at all and flights not to be closed, smaller vehicles will be used and therefore the costs that the State must bear and compensate for the carriers will be reduced. This will lead to significant savings in public budgets in regions with low passenger numbers and will enable these unprofitable flights to be excluded. And the other thing in this bill is there. The law is intended to be supplemented by rules governing the establishment of a national information system for the administration of fares. As we know, there are a number of institutions that provide various types of relief, each of which is in its own institution, it is not in one place, and it is often very difficult to apply it. Well, and now it is thought that this national information system, which will be united, will include data from the State Commission of the State of the Office for Citizenship and Migration Affairs, Health and Work Capacity Expertise Doctors, the State Children's Rights Inspectorate and the Society Integration Fund. In future, this solution will be administered by the Road Transport Directorate. In the Commission, we examined this draft law and supported it for the first reading. I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Public Transport Services. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U110	Yes! Thank you. We will wait five days for the proposals, so by 19 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U111	Thank you, the proposals are due by 19 September this year. Dear colleagues, Members Āboltiņa, Dzintars, Krauze, Zarins and Adamovich ask for the Saeima to continue the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The sitting of the Saeima will therefore be held without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U112	Dear colleagues, We work with amendments to the Postal Law. These amendments relate to the implementation of the Directive to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing and similar activities. Colleagues! These amendments should also be seen in the context of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism and two other draft laws in the financial field. These amendments provide that Latvijas Pasts and other operators providing payment services are to be placed under the supervision of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. So it will be licensing or registration. We have examined these amendments in the Commission and I call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U113	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U114	Colleagues! The deadline is quite short - five days. So next Tuesday - September 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U115	Thank you. Proposals are due by 19 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U116	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law No 1010/Lp12 - Amendments to the law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. This bill was submitted to the Saeima by the Cabinet of Ministers, but was drafted by the Ministry of Health. The draft law provides for the addition of lists of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, including both new psychoactive substances and their groups, as well as the clarification of the groups already mentioned in the law. The Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has already decided that these substances are dangerous and that their legal movement is prohibited. This decision shall be valid from the moment of its adoption, and in order to prevent the return of these substances to legal circulation, the decision of the Centre must be strengthened within 12 months from its adoption in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers as well as in the law. This draft law lists dangerous substances, for example, a new herbal mixture containing marijuana, a new substance similar to lysergic acid diethylamine, a people-known as LSD, a new substance – an opium derivative that does not even have a name – with only one letter and five digits, but already involving at least three deaths in Europe. The Commission examined the draft law and unanimously supported it. On behalf of the Commission, please determine the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U117	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U118	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U119	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for the second reading and the time for consideration by the Saeima at its sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U120	Deadline for the submission of proposals - September 19, and date of the second reading - September 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U121	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by 19 September of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 21 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” (No 958/Lp12) and alternative law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” (No 1024/Lp12) developed by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. The Commission has requested that the alternative draft legislation be declared urgent. Let me explain what the debate will be like. First, the rapporteur will report on the two draft laws on behalf of the Commission, and the debate will also be on the two draft laws together. Then there will be a vote on the draft law drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers, which the Commission has requested to reject, and then - a vote on urgency for the alternative draft law drawn up by the Commission, and a vote on support for the draft alternative law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U122	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! So to your attention two draft laws “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”. The draft law drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers at the Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy was examined, and it was found that there have been incorporated several unequally assessed norms. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development also had no common view of these amendments. Thus, the Commission distinguished itself about the fact that the draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers highlights those norms which the view of which is unified, which could not be subject to special discussions, and the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission prepares an alternative draft law. The second draft law prepared by the Commission provides for the establishment of a list of types of endangered habitats, as well as the identification of characteristics of these habitats. Both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture shared the view that such a list is necessary and that the Cabinet of Ministers should also develop it. Thus, I call for the first rejection of the draft law drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers (Dep. J.Urbanovich: “Right!” ) and call for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U123	Thank you. Here it is possible for Members to participate in the debate both on the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and on the draft law drafted by the Commission. Anybody? In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” (No 958/Lp12) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers! I would remind you that the Commission is calling for this draft law to be rejected. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for -87, for -2. Draft law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U124	So I call... Given that the draft law drawn up by the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy could not bring any great resonance and that no big proposals are expected there, I call for it to be given urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U125	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” (No. 1024/Lp12) submitted by the Commission as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 27, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U126	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U127	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” (No 1024/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U128	We will wait until 18 September and see the Saeima meeting on 21 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U129	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 18 September of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 21 September of this year. The order of business - consideration of draft decisions. On the agenda - draft decision “On the change of the date of the review of the law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure” (No.577/Lp12) of the Saeima sitting from 21 September 2017 to 16 November 2017.” On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U130	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 12 September, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government completed the examination of the proposals submitted by the Law “Amendments to the Law on Public Administration Structure”, but the final decision on directing the draft law for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima... The final decision has not yet been taken. This is due to the Commission's desire to address concerns that amendments to this law will reduce the availability of information. As has been mentioned many times and as the President of Latvia also points out, a conflict of laws has been established. According to the opinion of the Commission and experts, the issues regarding the criteria for making public the remuneration of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions need to be regulated in the special law, which is the Law on the remuneration of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the scope of the unitary remuneration law is much broader, because it – unlike the State Administration Structure Law – applies to all public persons, including the Saeima, the Presidential Chancellery, the Latvian Banking, Financial and Capital Market Commission. On the other hand, the State Administration Equipment Act does not apply to independent and special status institutions. The Cabinet of Ministers has been delegated to issue regulations on the procedure for publishing information on the remuneration of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions by 1 January 2018. As a result of discussions, the Commission has decided to wait for the said draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers to be evaluated and discussed and only then to decide on the promotion of amendments to the Law on the State Administration Unit for the re-reading at the Saeima sitting. However, when assessing this draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, it will be decided that any amendments to the extent of the delegation are necessary, then it will be possible to make appropriate amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. Thus, the Commission asks to support the prepared draft decision on the change of the date of the re-reading of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U131	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U132	Good afternoon, everybody! There is clear evidence here that bureaucracy only creates bureaucracy. We spoke here about publicising the remuneration of officials and officials about six months ago, now you are asking for another two months to come. What are you doing in that commission? The devil knows him! There's a kind of time drag, so that in no way, perhaps even in this term, can't be done so that we can see... that any taxpayer in the country can see how much a particular official or official receives. And it’s very unpleasant to hear that you have sat down on the commission and understood: “ Hey, maybe two more months?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Since we have a conflict, we have a problem there, should be as if two more months, eight weeks sit by posting how to do so, and then pull something forward... “ Then it will be Christmas, and you will see what it is that Christmas is going to take place... We don't work for Christmas. That's right! We have the end of the session. Then the budget will come. Then we cannot put this on the agenda. A, and then the elections begin, and then the “rat run” begins. Here we go! In principle, what I recommend is not to support! I recommend making this commission work. There are so many officials in the country, so many bureaucracys! Like such a huge machine... Please, let them work. You're the highest decision-making power. Do not support this commission's decision to extend until November 16 when they come up with something again in some way that they can't really figure out anything. Just reject this! And give them a chance to work. It'll be like a lump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U133	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the change of the date of the draft decision “On the change of the date of the review of the law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure” (No.577/Lp12) of the Saeima sitting from 21 September 2017 to 16 November 2017”! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: Against! ) Please see the result. No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U134	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U135	On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Laimdotas Straujuma from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Laimdotas Straujuma from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 93, against - 1, refrains - none. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On withdrawal of Member Alda Adamovičs from the National Administration and Municipal Commission”. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Alda Adamovičs from the National Administration and Municipal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Astrid Harjus from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of Member Astrid Harjus! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Member Laimdota Straujuma to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Laimdota Straujuma to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against - 1, it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Member Alda Adamovičs to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Alda Adamovičs to the Education, Culture and Science Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Member Astrid Harjus to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Astrida Harjus to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Member Renars Putniņš to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Renars Putniņš as a Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. A question has been put to Members. Members of Silver, Kūtris, Meija, Šymfas and Platopers have asked about the amount of funding granted by the State for one of the meals to be taught, which is directed towards the purchase of food products. We hand it over to the Minister of Education and Science for a reply. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, today's 35th anniversary is celebrated by Member Andris Morozovs, and we congratulate him! (Applause) Name for the announcement to Member Romuald Crop.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U136	Dear Members in the Group of Members for cooperation with the Lithuanian Parliament - please in the Yellow House! Other colleagues are also asked who would like to go to the Baltic Unit Day celebrations!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U137	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U138	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Kārlis Krēsliņš, Rihards Melgailis, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Ivans Ribakovs and Juris Vectirāns... Yuri Vectyran is.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-14-PT12-436-U139	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
