ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the meeting of the Saeima on 16 March 2017. Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting initially submitted. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting approved by the Bureau and the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” (No 849/Lp12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ; “Ir!” ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of amending the agenda of the sitting and include the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security" (No 849/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 1, for - 17. The decision has been taken. The agenda has been amended. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendment to Commercial Law” (No 850/Lp12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? And the objections. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft law “Amendment to Commercial Law” (No 850/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! To - 58, to - 1, to - 21, to - 21. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, “The Law on the Protection of Anxiety Victims”, be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Notices of Payments to Administrative Institutions by Commercial Companies Engaged in the Mining Industry or the Development of Primary Forests” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the establishment of the Rail Baltic/Rail Baltica railway link” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. On own-initiative proposals submitted. Report by the Bureau on the own-initiative proposal submitted The commission presented its own proposal for mandates, ethics and applications – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On progressive tax systems” of 10 657 Latvian citizens”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, Members Raivis Dzintars, Solvita Āboltiņa, Augusts Brigmanis, Einārs Cilinskis and Ainars Latkovskis are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and the draft law “Amendments to the National Security Law” (No 849/Lp12, first reading) and draft law “Amendment to the Commercial Law” (No 850/Lp12, first reading) to be examined as first and second items of the agenda under “Review of draft laws”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? “ We don’t care! ” ) There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Laimdota Straujuma on 15 and 16 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has received Ms Laimdotas Straujuma's application to grant her unpaid leave on 15 and 16 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft decision “On closing the parliamentary winter session of 2017 and opening the parliamentary spring session of 2017”. The draft decision envisages closing the Saeima winter session on 10 April 2017 and launching the Saeima spring session on 18 April 2017. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On closing the parliamentary winter session of 2017 and opening the parliamentary spring session of 2017”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Examination of draft laws. On the agenda - Draft Law on National Security Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U2	Good morning, colleagues! At its meeting on 14 March this year, the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has supported the draft law presented by the National Security Commission, which aims to protect important economic security interests of the country. Economic security is one of the most important aspects of national security and is based on the capacity to ensure the stability and sustainable growth of the economic environment. An important element in this economic security is important private companies, which own assets of strategic importance to the State, or which provide or manufacture services or goods of major importance to society. The continuity of the activities of these companies and the relevance of the activities to the public interest are essential so as not to jeopardise public governance and security. Latvian laws and regulations do not currently provide for state action in cases where the influence of a person, whose activities may be directed against the Republic of Latvia, as well as the interests of the European Union or North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, is acquired in companies that are important to national security. Thus, the draft law submitted by the National Security Commission provides for the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers to decide on the maintenance of the influence of a person or the authorisation to acquire influence in commercial companies of importance to national security, as well as on the authorisation to transfer critical infrastructure for use, possession or ownership to another person. The consent of the Cabinet of Ministers will be necessary for the transfer of critical infrastructure (category A) and critical infrastructure (category B), critical infrastructure as well as European critical infrastructure for use, possession or ownership of another person at the state level. The permission of the Cabinet of Ministers will also be necessary for acquisition of influence, acquisition of substantial participation, acquisition of decisive influence or conversion of the company, as well as for the entry of new members into a company of importance to national security. The draft law defines such a commercial company and will be limited to: an electronic communications operator with significant market power; a national electronic media; a commercial company licensed for the transmission, storage or distribution of natural gas or owns a liquefied natural gas installation connected to a transmission system; an electricity or heat generator with an installed actual capacity exceeding 250 megawatts or with a heat grid of at least 500 kilometres. Information on the acquisition of the status of a commercial company of importance to national security is also foreseen. There will also be opportunities to appeal against such decisions. It should be noted, however, that several Member States of the European Union already have such safeguards in place in respect of certain companies and are currently present in seven Member States of the European Union: Great Britain, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Poland and Sweden. It should be noted, for example, that in France such restrictions are in 14 headings, in 14 sectors. We are much more modest. The draft law must ensure fair decision-making and identify risks of harm to national security. These risks can vary and will also depend on the individual circumstances of the individual case. The draft law provides that when the Cabinet of Ministers decides to issue an authorisation or refuse an authorisation, it shall assess the limitation of the person’s rights, its proportionality with the interests of national security and the opinion of the State Security Authority, as well as compliance with the principle of legitimate expectations and other principles of law. This is stated in the second paragraph of Article 44. The Cabinet of Ministers has set the detailed procedure for the evaluation. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to acknowledge this draft law as urgent, as Members in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption supported this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U3	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Do the Members who have applied to speak wish to speak in the debate or to speak of urgency? ( Interface: “On Urgency! ” ) On the urgency of the talk or debate? ( Interface: In the debate!) ) In the course of the Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “No, for urgency!” ) On urgency. So, Mr. Adamson wanted to talk about urgency. Are you going to talk about or against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: Against! ) Mr. John Adamsons has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U4	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, I have been in politics for quite a long time, but, to be honest, for the first time I will face a situation and a way of examining draft laws in our Saeima. For the first time, I see that the draft law being examined by a commission is declared secret. That is one question. Second. So far, it has not been clear to me - who is the author of the bill? I haven't heard or understood that. I also asked these questions at the commission meeting. Third. I have not understood, and no one has explained to me why this urgency is present. Why is this urgency necessary? What has happened that the draft law should be examined as a matter of urgency? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “You well know why it is done!” ) Fourth. The issue of the draft law itself is certainly a subject for discussion, and such a draft law is necessary. That was a long time ago. That was something that had to be accepted a long time ago, 10, 15 or 20 years ago. There is absolutely no doubt in this regard. But the way in which it is done is totally unacceptable. At the Commission meeting, where the invited persons took part, I asked another naive question: who is the author of the annotation? Unfortunately, I also did not know who prepared the annotation. This was not the case either. Next question. These issues, which are addressed in the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security" and also in the next draft law, concern the economy - the economy as such. But if we look at the annotation that we have, it follows that until last night the draft law was not agreed at all with a whole range of specialists. Then the question arises: how do we move these draft laws forward? Next. Article 82 of the parliamentary roll provides that Members must be able to familiarize themselves with any draft law and its annotation seven days before examining the draft law at the Saeima. This, too, has not been respected here. To be honest, there are more questions than answers. And most importantly, what would I really like to understand - why is this urgency? Neither of the experts invited could reply to the Commission’s meeting as a matter of urgency. It is said that it can affect the mass media or liberalisation of “Latvijas Gas” and so on, but there is no clear answer. I do not believe that such an important and important draft law should be examined as a matter of urgency and adopted quickly. Are we not going to ditch again like the law on the tax on micro-enterprises? As a matter of urgency, we accepted it, and then he finally said, "You know, something is not right there. I believe that the urgency here is absolutely unacceptable and the draft law must be seen in the normal way to provide answers to all the questions that have been asked. And in the end, that's an interesting question, too. If this draft law is so important, then why should the authors of this draft law hide? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U5	Karlis Sergeant, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U6	I will, of course, not answer all of Mr Adamson's questions here, but it should be borne in mind that this draft law first passed through the National Security Commission, so that Members of this Commission were introduced - why such urgency is necessary. We could, of course, also do this in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, but then we had to hold a closed sitting and, given that there is no tolerance for some Members to national secrecy, unfortunately, we were also unable to examine this information in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson laughs.) So that's what we've been arguing about for quite a long time in the Commission. We also understand that it is not about dozens of transactions in the near future, but they could be two transactions in the next three years. No huge impact on the economy this draft law will leave, and let us also say... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “A will leave at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Well, when you look at which country you are talking about. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) I nevertheless call for support for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the National Security Law” (No 849/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, against - 28, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U8	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U9	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, the leaders of the Latvian people! Each of us Members may have no more than two standing commissions. And I, like the rapporteur on the draft law - Karlis Sergeant - am both within the National Security Commission and within the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission. The Head of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” is the National Security Commission, but the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is responsible. The regulatory framework that we are discussing here is, of course, coalitions; governments are, in fact, created. Therefore, given the fact that I am a Member of the opposition and the task of the opposition, as we know, it is to criticise the majority of activities... It follows from the principle of separation of powers and, by citing Egil Levit, states that the majority in Parliament is to monitor compliance with rights as the majority is not objective vis-à-vis the government. By the way, I will try very strictly to follow what happened in the National Security Commission, because I do not have the right to talk about it; it is classified information. At the same time, I base my information on what I heard and understood in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, and in consultation with my colleague Aivars Maye on what happened in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. So I'm going to start with a little lyrical introduction and then I'm going to do that, say, a bull at the horns. The legislative process must be certain, clear, and it must go hand in hand with a series of principles of law, which are specific to Parliament and which must also be respected by Parliament. The first include, for example, the principle of the prohibition of hidden lobbying, the principle of openness to parliamentary sittings and the principle of respect for successive legislative procedures. These principles derive from both the Constitution and the parliamentary order roll. The second, which arises from Article 1 of the Satversme, must be added to the principle of the national state, the principle of the socially responsible state and the principle of the rule of law. And the most important thing that arises from the principle of the rule of law, as stated several times - three or four times - is the principle of legal certainty. And what is not mentioned in the argument, despite the fact that at the commission meeting I repeatedly stressed and my colleagues also agreed... and Ainars Latkovskis promised that there would be this principle in the annotation... These principles, which derive from the primacy of Article 1 of the Satversme – the rule of law – are the principle of legitimate expectations and the principle of legal certainty. I'll talk about them closer. So, what do I mean? First... On these principles in a moment's time, but now on the amendment of the law itself. Is that necessary? I think it is definitely necessary. I will vote in favour. But if we are talking about urgency, that is another aspect. So national security is closely linked to economic resources in the country. If it wants to protect them, significant private companies must be monitored and their activities checked against the public interest. It is about strategically important properties, as the previous rapporteur - Mr Sergeant - or commercial structures that provide important services to society, also noted. By the way, there are not many such companies. And in the first case, it's natural gas, as Aivars Maye told me. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which is not attached to this draft law, met the Ministry of Economics and “Latvijas Gaze” last week. Depp. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, import order!” )... And, for example, communication services can still be about... or for television or electricity producers... You will say: where is the problem? What do you in vain delay time, Balody, when you need to pass this necessary law? I will answer: the problem is that this draft law should not have been adopted by this Saeima, but, I think, definitely before, if not before. Ten years ago we knew about a lot of things, but we in the country were negligent both with regard to our army and with regard to our security. And now we're trying, so to say, to get it back. Is that bad? I think it was high time to do so. But what do I want to talk about? I would like to say that this law provides for the immediate validity of this law and for the possibility for the State to intervene essentially immediately after the law enters into force. The law shall enter into force on the day following its adoption. You'll say: okay! Right? That's cool! Rightly, that the strategic interests of the country are protected immediately and immediately? Yes and no. This draft law is not only because of its content, but also because of its leader. The NDC is not a legislative commission. And I fully understand that the possibilities offered by the roll of order of the Saeima are quite limited: either it is government, or it is Members, or it is a commission... The National Security Commission is the promoter of this bill. The commission responsible - the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - took note of this draft law this week, Tuesday. The largest speaker and advocate of the draft law was a representative of the Ministry of Economics. It was true that the previous speaker was right... Not Sergeant (Sergeant was partly right), but Adamson... that, so to say, they want this bill. And the rest - the Office for Constitutional Protection and also the Ministry of Justice - admitted that they, to say so, agreed with this draft law: it would be good. I concluded from this that the developer and promoter is actually the Ministry of Economics. So it's so clear about the author. But this is about lawyers. Has anyone talked to them? During the discussions in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, there was no fact that someone could have spoken to lawyers, and this led to suspicion that there was virtually no consultation. It was also recorded that no consultations had taken place. In response to our surprise that no consultation with professionals has taken place, it was finally said half secretly that it had taken place. What has happened then? Has happened to the Ministry of Economics, as acknowledged by the Ministry of Economics; with the Ministry of Justice. And on request, to improve the annotation that I actually received only at the Tuesday meeting of the commission... It's not normal! Of course, we can find a clause in the parliamentary order roll that you can do so in some cases where there is an extreme urgency, but... Well, this did not appear in the claim. Then the annotation was redrafted (I do not know at night or day), and on Wednesday Ainars Latkovskis gave us a new annotation, which in fact was recorded - in this point - with which consultations were held; then it was recorded that consultations had been held with the Ministry of Economics, with the Ministry of Justice and the Constitutional Protection Bureau. What is it? I think it is - absolutely safe I can say! - irresponsible negligence committed by the State. It is neither the National Security Commission nor the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission. Ainars Latkovskis also told me that they are diametrically uncomfortable about this situation. I don't like it either. I think the rest of you who read - I hope there are people here among us, but there are people who read what they accept? - should be uncomfortable. Why to put now a situation where in fact we put on a full programme of beautiful goldbee lawyers for failure to respect the principles of legitimate expectations and legal certainty? Either in the courts of these countries or in international courts, where this principle is also respected... Consequently, the principles of legal certainty and legitimate expectations. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I would like to focus on them. The principles of legal certainty and legitimate expectations are, in substance, close, but not identical. What are these principles, and what do they mean by the law in question? Let me start with the principle of legal certainty. This is a general principle of law, which requires public authorities to ensure that individuals and legal entities are able to know clearly what rights are active in a given area and at a given time and to coordinate with them. One of the main functions of the legislative act is to ensure legal certainty, that is to say, to make public action calculated and predictable in certain situations, so that the subject of the law - the individual, the legal entity or, in the case of a directive, say, in the case of a directive of the European Union, the Member State - knows what it can and cannot do, and what it will or will not be, for example, the reaction of the institutions of the European Union to its action. This is an essential factor in ensuring the legality and specific enforcement of the legislative act. The scope of the principle of legitimate expectations is, as is known, narrower than the scope of the principle of legal certainty: it only covers a certain proportion of cases in which the public authority has infringed the principle of legal certainty. The principle of legitimate expectations creates a person's subjective right to apply to a court in cases where a public authority has not been consistent in its activities, the requirement to ensure the protection of legitimate expectations and even to compensate for the damage caused by inconsistent State action. With regard to this regulatory framework, I would also like to refer to one of the first judgments of the Constitutional Court, in which the principle of legitimate expectations was further analysed. As we know, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis was involved in a public discussion with the then President of the Constitutional Court about whether or not the state should comply with the principle of legitimate expectations. Thus, in its judgment of 26 November 2009, when analysing the principle of legitimate expectations, the Constitutional Court recognised: legal trust to a person may be created by both an administrative act, a legal norm and – in certain cases – other actions of state institutions with a sufficiently high degree of certainty. That is, the particular case, the context in which the... This provision was created and the legal framework as such. So I'm against having an extraordinary head run over my neck, because it was a good time to do all this. And the secret of every case we learn. In other cases, it may even be necessary to make this secret. But I think to set up with such a case and knowingly give lawyers the chance to win the court - well, that would be sad! Either the conspirators in the government, who “play” or even are known to someone who benefits from this situation or, as always, everything happens, as always! - at the last moment, we're joking, we're rushing, we're going to have an annotation at night, and we're all pretending that we're done with laws. Good luck to everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U11	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U12	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The ruling coalition has not paid sufficient attention to national security issues. It's not a secret to anyone! The Association of the Regions of Latvia has drawn attention to this - both yours and the public. And we are completely dissatisfied that this draft law has appeared on our agenda only now. This bill was supposed to be on our agenda and already adopted several years ago. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Better later than never! We are in opposition to the ruling coalition, but we are not in opposition to Latvia. I therefore call for the adoption of this law as a matter of urgency. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U13	The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U14	Madam President, very much. Colleagues! Mr. Adamson! Mr. Baloža! The question has been raised several times here: who is the author of the bill? Then, on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I acknowledge to you that the Ministry of Economics was one of the main authors of this bill. ( The drug is noise. Sub-words: Ooo! - if you are allergic Mr Baloža, I also mentioned - perhaps in a rather cautious tone - in the committee sitting, by the way, but now I think it is no longer a question. But, Mr Balozh, as he says, when there are no arguments in the debate, there are accusations between them. And I've noticed that there's another intermediate stage in the Saeima, namely, if you don't agree with the substance, but you can't really admit it, then the legal arguments begin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūris: “Laws have legal meaning!” ) Thank you for this legal statement. I am pleased that you agree with the substance. But its main theme is, in any case, that, in the common interest of the public, the interests of an individual may, however, be violated or weakened. And in this case, certain national security is a common public interest on whose behalf it could be undermined. And if we are talking about the impact on the economy that has been mentioned here, then one thing needs to be understood: of course, as Mr Adamson mentioned in the Commission, security depends on economic development, but economic development is equally dependent on security. There are a number of countries where there is no security and there is no economic recovery. And now there is an interesting trend mentioned by businessmen. When a factory is being built or the equipment is being delivered, they demand that the situation be resolved in the contracts: What happens if some kind of war begins? Yes, so they worry about security, and if there is no answer to this question or if there is no feeling that this security is there, there will be no investment in Latvia. So I believe that national security is of primary importance, because it is a prerequisite for economic development. Colleagues, I call for this draft law to be supported. This draft law is in no way contrary to the economy and economic development. On the contrary! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U15	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U16	Good morning, colleagues! The National Security Commission is the promoter of this bill, and why we are heading this bill and that we are asking for urgency, I have been speaking from this tribunal last week. And the one who surprised me this week... But, on the one hand, it was not surprising, because I saw it already when the Saeima tried to adopt a bill to protect its country - the amendments to the Criminal Law: there were no such real arguments about why it should not be done. Everyone agrees with the purpose of the law, but - exactly as my colleague Vilnis Kersis said! - trying to find some side arguments why it's wrong. This time, there are even less arguments for not moving such draft laws. And then there's such a strange situation... I have never seen a situation before that someone would ask for information about the time when an annotation has appeared and who has prepared it. The draft law was prepared by the Ministry of Economics. Yes, I agree: the Minister for Economic Affairs has already had the task of bringing together a working group and drawing up such a draft law. Unfortunately, this was not done. Then this task has moved further to other economic ministers, and now it has also been received by the economic minister, Asheraden. So that the draft law was indeed very long and very carefully coordinated. Mārtiņš Bondars may have been able to make some effort in his own way - because he is a well-educated person on economic issues - to make this draft law faster. But at the moment it is really very carefully prepared, and thank you to the Legal Bureau, thank you to those lawyers who really tried to clarify this draft law so that there are as few legal contradictions there as possible. Thank you to those who have also pointed out in the argument that the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union has been examined. The impact of this on entrepreneurship has been very carefully assessed. It has also been evaluated in Latvia. The government yesterday... The Prime Minister said clearly and clearly yesterday from this troupe that we will only be able to live better if we reach an economic breakthrough. And anything that concerns the economy is important, but our security is even more important than that. And if it just slips through the fingers and if there is no security here, we will not be able to talk about any economic breakthrough. This draft law is of sufficient quality, it has been discussed with experts, it seeks to eliminate the risks that could be a legal threat to us. And, of course, I am not a teacher at university and I will not be able to read the lecture that Mr Baloža has read to us at the moment - thank him! I think it is valuable that we all now know much more about the principles of law. Mr Baloža, you said that you were embarrassed. I'm embarrassed, too. You were at the National Security Commission. You know the arguments. You know there are people who have already prepared this deal in half. You know why it is necessary to adopt this draft law as soon as possible. And now you just come here and use your perfect lawyer's knowledge, and deceive the Saeima, and deceive the public. There is nothing more important than protecting our country, so that someone else cannot threaten us by turning a gas tap on us; so that someone can not threaten us by disconnecting us from electricity; so that we cannot be put at risk in the information space. These are just four areas that have now been identified where we can actually be threatened by this kind of economic governance. And that is why this bill has been created - precisely because there is such information. And Mr. Balozh is. There is a need for the urgency of this draft law. The draft law will not be adopted today, one day; it will also be possible to submit its reservations and legal arguments. But no one has even talked about these arguments in public space. If the lobby works so strongly that really all companies, even those who have nothing to do with strategic state interests, have been sent out letters, in which way the Saeima is acting again and accepting something in an urgent manner... I would like to remind you that the fathers of the Constitution, who are also fathers of the Order of Order, envisaged such a possibility that the draft law could be adopted on the urgency table. The fact that many parliaments, including this, may have abused urgency, does not mean that it can never be used. It is right now that there is an absolute justification for us to adopt the draft law as a matter of urgency. And that is why I am calling for support for the adoption of this draft law, to work very carefully with it and to evaluate it, and first plant the interests of your country, not someone who called somewhere. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U17	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U18	Hello! I also like working with you at the National Security Commission, Solvita. And thank you for your compliments, but... But, but, but... There are some “but”. Things can be formulated and indicated in different ways. For example, I always have irony caused by the ironic findings of our TV dictators when our hockey team loses. They say: “We made concessions. We made concessions again. And again we made concessions.” Very careful work... Stop it! There, at the beginning of the annotation, is written about the national security plan. When the hell have we confirmed it? Never! There are ascribable cases, which explicitly point out that the principle of legitimate expectations will be that of a bliss in a court in relation to a transitional period. Of course, in this case it can be pointed out that it is a legal bribery. I am also in favour of that draft law, but I am against the fact that once again we do not know why we will lose out in the courts where we will stand in front of our own former civil servants and perfectly lawyers. I am not speaking in this regard because I am lobbying, because in a month's time, I will - of course, I have been advertising my production here once again - the book of the Houses of Justice, which will also be called 'analysing the principles of legal certainty and legal certainty'. And what I quote was not my invention. They were written by Egil Levit, written by Ineta Ziemele, Daiga Razevska, and others. I think why can we not work normally, and why should we always do everything at the last moment and then all of us finish by telling us how we have worked closely? For ten years, we slept, and at the last minute, we did not know why. Why can't it be normal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U19	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U20	Good morning, colleagues! ‘ The sovereign power of the State of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia.” There, where you paid for it, you put on your own the slogan of this KPV advertising. Thank you. But do you even understand what's written there? At the moment, the situation is as follows: There is such an axiom in the country: if Unity and Solvita Aboltiņa, in particular, start talking about national security, then there are bad ratings for Unity or Solvita Aboltiņa or both. It's most likely both. And then, when it is, Solvita Āboltiņš, in a calm, quiet, balanced voice, comes to say that, you see, the country is in danger. ( Insight: “Will you talk about the subject?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ The question is, Wykos Spolitis should not prevent colleagues from speaking, and...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U21	Member Artus Neighbours, I remind you that...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U22	Yes, good morning! I say hello to you... Of course, yes, Mrs. Mourniece! Good morning!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U23	... that there is a draft law on "Amendments to the National Security Act" on the agenda, and if you do not talk about this draft law, you will be excluded from the microphone. ( Interface: “Get your microphone! ” ) Please continue the debate, but talk about the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security"!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U24	Are you done? Can I talk now?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U25	On the bill, Mr. Neighbour!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U26	So the situation is as follows. Mrs. Moore, either you really come to my place to talk, or... What's going on? ( The Room Noise) Let me, please... So you here several professionals indicated that... Why Urgency? Solvita Aboltiņa, you're here in the Saeima, how old are you? Eight? Ten? Seven? You had the opportunity all the time to work with this. Of course, the draft law is necessary. This must be supported. That must be supported! But there was no answer to that urgency... You said that even Vaira Vike-Freiberga was responsible for this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “On National Security Law, please!” ) Or, let's assume, your obsession... That's LRA, maybe, isn't it? You're already starting to be supported... But why is that bill urgent? You don't say that. You come to the teacher and say that, sorry, it's like that and so... that we're going to give lawyers on a golden bowl of this... all these things. And you're not responsible for that. This is about the way it is accepted... A single handful of people in the country may take decisions on national security issues in this room. That is the question. And you can't come here and say we're in danger again. No danger! You should have been working in advance as well, not just when the elections come. Something else I wanted to say. (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) Maybe someone would like to say something for me? In short, ladies and gentlemen, Julia Stepanenko, I think I will continue on my subject of urgency... Well, that's... We have voted for urgency, but... Well, you're laughing about yourself here. You're laughing at yourself here! Seriously. ( Intangibles: “You could go to the school bench! To primary school!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U27	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U28	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Neighbour! I really want to put forward one of the versions as an answer to your question why there is urgency for this draft law. The urgency could be precisely because the draft law is prepared so very unqualityly and hastily that first of all there is a clear violation of Article 80 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, which states that the draft law must be signed. Today, we have understood that part of the draft law is the Ministry of Economics, and it has already promised to go ahead - so one signature has been here for us. There's another dark side. There's another author. And the urgency could be precisely for that reason. As Mr Adamson has already pointed out, seven days earlier Members had to have access to this annotation, but the annotation appeared only yesterday around the evening. Consequently, I understand that this urgency is probably linked to precisely such violations. The very purpose of the law is, of course, understandable. As at the end of 1939, the state wants to protect the strategically important infrastructure from undesirable effects in the current geopolitical conditions. However, this is being done, once again, with such a lack of quality and urgency that it has caused great concern among investors - not only among investors who are linked to this strategic infrastructure, but also among all those who are close together and all the other investors. But you understand that job losses and the overall impact on Latvia's economy are also following the alarm of investors. And what we heard yesterday in Mr Kučinski's report, what we debated yesterday... There, too, one of the points is that investment is falling rapidly in Latvia. Now they will probably go further. I call for the draft law not to be supported in such a poor quality version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U29	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U30	Yeah. I would just like to add that Mr Baloža is not prevented from being a constructive opposition and from presenting a proposal for this bill within the prescribed time. And I'll add... Of course, any parliamentary business card... Parliament's quality is determined by the fact that Parliament is working on laws that are regular, long, thorough and laws that are simply super-quality... But the other quality of this Parliament is the ability to respond quickly to national threats and to quickly adopt the necessary draft laws. We all understand very well that this draft law is probably aimed at one particular transaction in the near future, and if there were no information about the transaction, let us say that people who are not Latvian patriots and who have done enough harm to Latvia at the time, then maybe we should not rush. But this time, unfortunately, there is. So that I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security" (No 849/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -1, for -21. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading and a deadline for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U32	Deadline for submission of proposals - March 20. Second reading - 23 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U33	So the proposals are due by 20 March this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 23 March this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Commercial Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U34	This draft law, Amendment to the Commercial Law, enters into a single package with a draft law that we have just supported. It provides for an exemption from the National Security Act for capital companies that are important for national security. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission on these draft laws, I ask you to declare it urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the amendment to the Commercial Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, against - 28, refrains - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U36	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Commercial Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -59, for -1, for -21. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for the second reading and the time for consideration by the Saeima at its sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U38	For this draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 20 March and the deadline for examination is 23 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U39	Thank you. Proposals for second reading shall be submitted by 20 March of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 23 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Court”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U40	Hello, dear colleagues! The Legal Commission, in cooperation with other stakeholders, has clarified the previous draft law and has assessed in general three proposals to improve the drafting without altering the substance. The Legal Commission has taken such decisions when examining these proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Commission, as best worded in this fourth paragraph. This is supported at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U42	2. - a proposal from the Legal Commission specifying the date on which these Judges should change. This is supported at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U44	The proposal shall enter into force in order to be able to carry out the necessary actions in connection with the oath of a judge and the rest by that date. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U46	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Constitutional Court Law” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America”, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U48	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Foreign Affairs Commission examined this draft law before the second reading. We received one proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. This agreement provides that the Ministry of Defence will, as usual, coordinate its implementation, but this proposal required that the Ministry of Justice should also be included. We talked about it, and the Ministry of Defence explained that traditionally such contracts are coordinated by only one ministry - the Ministry of Defence. And we also found out that the Ministry of Justice does not support this proposal. And so the Foreign Affairs Commission rejected it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U49	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U50	Can I unite... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U51	Do Members have reservations if Member Jūlija Stepanenko combines the two times of the debate? There is no objection. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, If I tell you that, overall, this treaty is completely satisfactory and lacks only the alert eye of the Ministry of Justice, it will not be true! This has already been signed by the government and Members are not allowed to confuse the content of this treaty. We are here to formally ratify this Treaty with a simple press on the pot. In this case, the accession of the Ministry of Justice as the coordinating ministry would ensure at least minimal peace of mind that our rights are not being trampled with boots. Recently, there has been a feeling that we would live in the new times of Ulman, on the eve of war. Now everything is decided by the government. The power of the state is now also struggling with the rumors and critics. The country will also now be able to carry out extraordinary supervision of companies by appointing its trustees, as we have just decided today. Now, too, we are not ending talking about the threat of war and the geopolitical situation. And now, too, we are making a sharp increase in funding for arms. In 1939 donations were collected from the nation - voluntarily. We are now looking for allies to call in our own land with weapons. For nothing, when talking about this treaty, the pact on international assistance of the USSR and Latvia of 5 October 1939 comes into mind. And just as leading politicians are now talking about preventive armaments, then, in October 1939, Foreign Minister Mounter said about the pact: “The principle of mutual assistance is of some importance – externally it is shown that both countries share similar interests in the prevention of war.” I very much hope that you, honourable colleagues, have all read the text of the Treaty. Is it really only my only idea that Latvia and its citizens could be discriminated against in different ways? Instead of the government, I would be ashamed to propose such a treaty to Parliament for ratification. Although, when I read a similar treaty signed by the Lithuanian and US governments on 17 January this year, I see differences in the wording proposed to us, starting with the criminal jurisdiction regime and ending with the mention of national sovereignty and the reference to Lithuanian law in the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Lithuanian Treaty, unlike the Latvian Treaty. I will offer you a free translation: the U.S. troops, using objects, will fully respect the sovereignty and laws of the Republic of Lithuania. And now find, please, something similar in the Latvian Treaty! Perhaps it is worth asking high officials in the United States - is our sovereignty not significant compared to Lithuania? Or has the Latvian Government not taken care at all to include such a reservation in the proposed text for Latvia? Similar reservations exist in the agreement with Spain, in the agreement with Bulgaria. In any case, you can compare yourself. Contracts are available on the Internet. Unanswered questions about the rights of the victim remain if the Latvian citizen falls into the disaster to suffer from the actions of the U.S. military. It is unclear why we sacrifice road safety, because special US vehicles do not require a European safety certification. Why are we taking time to act on the part of our institutions, that is, we are setting 21 days for the General Prosecutor's Office to report to the US authorities? And why do we voluntarily abandon a reasonable dispute settlement mechanism? Because with all the disputes that will arise, we will not be allowed to appeal to any court, tribunal or similar authority, as the treaty states: “Dispute and other matters referred to it shall not be referred to national courts or international courts, tribunal or similar bodies, nor to any third party.” How can you solve a possible dispute with a guest if you have a full homestead with a military technique? Moreover, we will not even know who, because we will not have any control over it. Another country's troops will live in our territory according to their laws and will have the right to build and protect their objects at their own discretion. Obviously, you can also protect yourself from us. It's not even a military base, it's a country. All in all, by simplifying the situation, things look like this in the view of this treaty. Paragraph 1. The truth is the one who has power. Point 2. If you don't like anything, see paragraph 1. It's not a contract. As the people say, it is a state act of acceptance-transfer. Finally, I ask you to support my proposal because it will give you some hope that the Ministry, which fought for amendments to this treaty, the Ministry, which must ensure the rule of law in our country, would be able to monitor the respect of the rights of Latvian citizens with regard to the implementation of this treaty. At least it would be safe. If we need protection so much, we cannot forget self-esteem. And don't take your head off with your hat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U53	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U54	Yeah. As I said, it was discussed in the Foreign Affairs Commission, and both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice did not support it. Nor did the Foreign Affairs Commission support, and on behalf of the Commission, I call on colleagues not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 23, 51, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U56	This proposal has therefore been examined. The Foreign Affairs Commission supported this draft law at second, final, reading, and on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on the agreement on defence cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U59	On the agenda: draft law on European cooperative societies, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U60	Good morning, colleagues! We are working on the third, final reading of the draft law amending the Law on European Cooperative societies. One proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima for the entry into force of the law on 1 May 2017 has been received. This is supported by the Commission. And I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U62	We have therefore examined this draft law. I call for the vote on it at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U63	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on European Cooperative Society. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Law on Economic Interest Groups of Europe, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U64	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Economic Interest Groups of Europe. Two proposals have been received for the third reading. They are of a technical nature and are related to the entry into force of the law. 1. there is a proposal from the committee responsible, which has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U66	2 is also a proposal from the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U68	We have therefore supported both proposals and call for the vote on the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U69	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Economic Interest Groups of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda: Draft law on European Company Law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U70	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on European Commercial Companies. One proposal has been received for the third reading. It is from the Law Office and provides that this Law will enter into force on 1 May 2017. In the Commission, this proposal has been supported and I call for it to be supported here too, at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U72	The proposals have been examined. I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U73	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on European Enterprises"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U74	Dear President of the Saeima. Members! When examining the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Civil Service” before the third reading, the National Administration and Local Government Commission has not received any proposal, and therefore, on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U75	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U76	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” and subsequent three draft laws were drawn up according to the state (Interface: “Two!” )... in accordance with the National Defence Concept and the Declaration of the Member States and Heads of State of the Warsaw Summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organizations adopted on 8 July 2016. The existing concept of national security, as well as the concept of national defence, only partially answer the question of what and how to do in today's security situation. Colleagues! A little information for your attention. Before joining NATO military strategies, the principles of total defence were used. After joining NATO, the Baltic military strategies are based on NATO collective smart defence. Now, in the 21st century, when there is a real threat of hybrid war, there is a need to develop a new military strategy that combines NATO collective defence as a deterrent factor - it requires professional armed forces - but in order to maintain control and order in the country, it uses the principles of total protection, where the forces of the Ministry of the Interior and the Earthguard are leading. The logical order is as follows: Firstly, analysis of threats, risks, challenges and, secondly, development of security and military strategies (in Latvia it is the concept of national security and the concept of national defence). It is a conceptual basis for the development of the law. And finally, the law allows us to draw up the appropriate plans. We're doing delayed jobs once again. In addition to the decisions taken at the Warsaw Summit by NATO Heads of State and Government on the additional deployment of NATO member states' forces in the Baltic Sea region and Latvia, it has been established that it is necessary to improve laws and regulations on the cooperation of the NAF with NATO member states' armed forces in emergency situations, in exceptional circumstances and for the purpose of strengthening state security and defence capabilities - also in peacetime. The draft law provides for the provision of receiving state aid as well as other specific tasks of modern military (e.g. electronic warfare, cyber defence) as set out for them in the National Defence Plan. Therefore, it is planned to complement the responsibilities of the National Armed Forces with four new ones, by requiring the NAF to conduct military intelligence at operational and tactical level, to provide support to NATO and EU Member States' armed forces, as well as to take other measures to prevent and manage state threats as set out in the National Defence Plan. The army will also have to support national security authorities in carrying out national security measures. The draft law provides for the transfer of management of NBS units not only to NATO member states, but also to the armed forces of EU member states. It is proposed to change the conditions for the inclusion of the State Border Guard in the composition of the National Armed Forces by providing for its inclusion in the composition of the NBS in an exceptional situation (for example, in the case of internal unrest), if necessary. In case of war, automatic inclusion is maintained. In order to raise awareness of the military objects and their cadastral borders, at the level of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, the procedure for determining and using special information signs of military objects will be established. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U77	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U78	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, This day could be called a dubious day of examination of draft laws at the Saeima. And speaking specifically about this draft law... All that Mr. Chair said is right. But I call on you to get to know and read carefully Article 4 of the draft law: "The third paragraph of Article 13 in the following wording: "( 3) In order to ensure that the tasks associated with membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union are fulfilled, the Commander of the National Armed Forces, in coordination with the Minister of Defence and taking into account the regulatory competences of the National Armed Forces and other authorities, may delegate to the military leadership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the Member States of the European Union, as well as the joint military units set up by it, individual units of the National Armed Forces or individual soldiers." “ When I discussed this draft law and discussed it in the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission, I also asked: What does this mean? Does this affect the participation of our soldiers in foreign missions? Reading literally what has been written here, it turns out that any NATO officer will now be able to command our National Armed Forces units or soldiers on the territory of Latvia. And then the question arises: how... What orders will he execute when directing these units? And what will it end with? Will all the laws to which our soldiers are subject be applied? There is absolutely no objection to our delegation of this right to command units of our soldiers and individual soldiers who carry out a mission under the mandate of the United Nations Security Council or under the mandate of the European Union, or under the mandate of NATO, if the relevant decisions have been taken outside Latvia. But, in my view, even the very idea that a foreign soldier, officer, general or admiral is free to command our soldiers on the territory of Latvia and to carry out some tasks that are questionable in nature is absolutely unacceptable. That is why there is a need for a whole series of amendments here, and the same will apply to the next two draft laws, which will unfortunately have to be debated. Corrections are needed, and I hope that the Saeima understands what we are talking about and where these concerns are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U79	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U80	It is clear that in the Commission we are still discussing and discussing team dependency, but I am asking for support for the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U81	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U82	March 21st.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U83	Thank you. Proposals are due by 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” (No 831/Lp12), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš. ( Interface: “Here you could read an annotation! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U84	Draft law ‘Amendments to the National Security Law’. The draft law provides for the addition of the National Security Law to the rule of the hidden military threat. The law empowers the Ministry of Defence to act in a preventive manner in order to preserve the security and stability of the State. In the event that the Cabinet of Ministers has been prevented from performing its functions in the circumstances of war in hybrid war, the Prime Minister may decide to do so. If, in such a case, the Prime Minister is also prevented from performing his duties, the Minister of Defence may decide on this. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U85	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U86	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, As regards amendments to the National Security Act, there are a number of problems in this draft law. ( The grass laughs.) And it is about what we were also talking about at the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. First. There must be legal correctness and, in particular, it must be said what is a hidden military threat and what is necessary to overcome it in peacetime if military means are used. Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer during the Commission's sitting - what is meant by this. And where is the relevant definition for us to talk about this, about this problem? And then we read: if the Cabinet of Ministers is delayed to perform its functions, the Prime Minister decides on this; if the Prime Minister is delayed to perform his duties, the Minister of Defence decides on this. Colleagues! The question is very simple: when will we finally introduce a normal replacement system in our country, so that it is absolutely clear who is responsible for what? And why do we have to lay down some sort of order in the law - who and what will answer in that or any other situation? If there is no Prime Minister, there is a Member of the Prime Minister, if there is no Member of the Prime Minister, there is a Minister who can do so, and so on, and so on. As I said during the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, everything in the army is simple. A great soldier can also become a commander of NBS if necessary. This is a normal replacement policy. Why are we always trying to solve something? Next. Military threat analysis. It is very good that the analysis of military threats under this bill will also be examined by the National Security Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. But let us now listen to those words. What does it mean to look at? It doesn't mean to look at anything. The nature of the question is very simple. Who makes the decision? Well, look at and throw it in the trash. What happens next? What tasks are delegated to relevant ministries, national or local authorities? Unfortunately, the draft law does not answer these questions either. And finally. Perhaps we will eventually resolve the elemental issue and change both the relevant Article of the Satversme and the relevant regulatory framework and determine that the National Security Council also confirms something and also takes decisions? Then, finally, we will come to some of its vertical system of power. At the moment, the National Security Council is meeting, dealing with serious issues in the country... And what happens next? Nothing! Are there any decisions made? Who knows! But above all, these decisions are not compulsory for anyone. I believe that this order needs to be radically changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U87	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U88	In the Commission, we have been discussing that "looking" is one thing, developing concepts... There are structures and the Saeima approves them. This is a different level. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I am asking for this draft law to be approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U89	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security" (No 831/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U90	March 21st
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U91	Thank you. Proposals are due by 21 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Foreign Forces in the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U92	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to law on the status of foreign forces in the Republic of Latvia”. It provides that the units of NATO and the armed forces of the Member States of the European Union will have special rights for the movement of combat equipment and weapons across the internal border of the Republic of Latvia if the operational necessity so requires. The draft law establishes two conditions when it is allowed to carry loaded fighting equipment, including aircraft and weapons, across the internal border of the Republic of Latvia and within the territory of the Republic of Latvia, if it is provided for in the instructions on fighting equipment or the use of weapons, as well as depending on the nature, intensity and nature of the state threat. Thus, only if the above mentioned conditions exist, the authorisation established by the law norm will come into force. The amendments will apply to the crossing of the border in order to ensure the self-protection capacity of the units. No NATO soldier will move in Latvia with a loaded weapon on his own initiative. Because any entity arriving in Latvia arrives here at the invitation of Latvia. Tasks to NATO and the units of the armed forces of the Member States of the European Union will be determined on the basis of the operational need and will not include tasks for which other specific rights under law are required or for which specific knowledge of the territory of Latvia is required (e.g. Latvian language skills for communication with the civilian population, etc.). Monitoring of the performance of these tasks will be provided by the responsible officials of the National Armed Forces. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “It’s all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No more information?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U93	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U94	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, All that Mr Chair said about the first reading of this draft law is partly true. Why in part? Because if you read carefully what has been presented to us in the draft law: “If this is provided for in the instructions for using the fighting equipment, as well as depending on the nature of the threat, its intensity and nature...”, and so on... That's in the text. The nature of the issue is simple: where is the type of danger defined? What conditions, when and who decides that weapons should be loaded and that the weapons and armaments can move freely within the territory of Latvia? Obviously, we need to talk here about an emergency: whether it is an exceptional situation or an act of war, or whether it is support for the fight against terrorism. But in that case, it must also be clearly defined in the relevant articles of the law. At the moment it happens that in any situation, any NATO soldier is theoretically free to move around the territory of Latvia, cross borders with loaded weapons. I do not believe that this is normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U95	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U96	Highly honored Presidium! Colleagues! It is true that discussions in the Commission have always been intense, but in this case, I think, the question is not too much, because if we are talking about the movement of NATO allies, if we are talking about regulation, what kind of weapons, whether loaded or uncharged, are being used, then it is very clearly agreed. Mr. Adamson! The Ministry of Defence distributed a very clear statement last weekend that misleading information about the free movement of NATO soldiers in Latvia with loaded weapons is now spreading. Who distributes them? Who does this? We can see very clearly that these are the media channels in the east behind Zilupe. I recommend that you read less of this, but that you turn to the essence of the bill. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U97	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U98	Colleagues! Please support the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U99	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Foreign Forces in the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U100	March 21st
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U102	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U103	Proposals are due by 21 March this year. Dear colleagues, Members Smilten, Brigmanis, Abu Meri, Kleinberg and Mežulis ask for the Saeima to continue its sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The sitting of the Saeima shall be held without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Private Pension Funds”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U104	Good morning, dear colleagues! The draft law is designed primarily to expand the range of companies that may be shareholders of private pension funds. Investment firms that have received an administrative licence in a Member State or in a Member State of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development may also be eligible. When these investment firms receive this licence, they will not only become fund managers but also become shareholders. Therefore, the draft law also addresses the problem of preventing potential conflicts of interest in the management of pension funds. The draft law also solves the problem of the fact that this law was adopted already in 1998. In the meantime, the legislative terminology, principles and everything else of the financial instrument have changed considerably. So this outdated terminology, too... the case is harmonised in order not to cause confusion. And the last thing. The share capital is increased for those private pension fund managers offering pension funds without a guaranteed return. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported this draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U106	Proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the law on private pension funds” are due by 30 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U107	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 30 March of this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Swiss Federal Council amending the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Swiss Federal Council of 31 January 2002 on the elimination of double taxation of income and capital taxes”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U108	Good afternoon! We work with document 3044. This draft law provides for new standards and improves the exchange of information with Switzerland in order to further improve cooperation in line with the new international requirements. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined this draft law for the first reading and supported it. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support to the draft law “On the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Swiss Federal Council amending the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Swiss Federal Council on the elimination of double taxation of income and capital taxes” concluded on 31 January 2002. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U110	Deadline for submission of proposals - March 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U111	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 24 March this year. On the agenda - Draft law on the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U112	We work with document No 2949. This Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism provides for the criminalisation of a number of new types of crime involving terrorism that have not been criminalised so far, either at national or international level. For example, receiving training for terrorism, travelling abroad for terrorist purposes and financing, organising and promoting such travel. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined this draft law for the first reading and supported it. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on my colleagues to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U113	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U114	Deadline for submission of proposals - March 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U115	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 24 March this year. On the agenda - first reading of the draft law on the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U116	We work with document No 2398. The aim of the draft law is to promote the gradual integration of South Africa's development community members into the world economy. These countries are Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland and the Republic of South Africa. This agreement will contribute to the integration of regional markets and trade in goods and services, thereby contributing to their economic growth and poverty reduction. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before the first reading and supported it. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at first reading, namely in conceptual terms.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U117	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U118	March 24th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U119	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 24 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Hague Convention on the Service of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters”, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U120	We work with document No 3198. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined this draft law before the second reading, did not receive any proposal and supported it. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U121	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Hague Convention on the Service of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U122	Deadline for submission of proposals - March 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U123	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 24 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U124	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”. This draft law is designed to ensure the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2014/23/EU. The purpose of this Directive is to reduce legal uncertainty as regards the award of concession contracts as a form of public-private partnership. The draft law therefore clarifies the definitions, clarifies and extends the list of exceptions to its application already provided for by the law, clarifies and extends the right of public partners to award concessions awarded by each of them and related companies, as well as many other cases. In the Commission, we have examined this draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U125	The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent. We must vote for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - 6, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U126	Colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I call on the Saeima to vote in favour of this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U127	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U128	Colleagues! If you have some good ideas to improve this draft law, then let us wait until 30 March. And we plan to see the draft law at second reading on April 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U129	April 20th, huh? April? Yeah. Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 30 March of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 20 April this year. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On progressive tax systems” of 10 657 Latvian citizens”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U130	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 9 December 2014 the Saeima received a collective application of 10 657 Latvian citizens “On progressive tax system”, in which the Saeima proposed: to draft a law establishing the rule that one of the main criteria for developing tax policy would be to reduce inequality. On 11 January 2017, the Commission met for the first initial evaluation of the collective application, in which it heard an authorised representative of the applicants. He reported that currently inequality in Latvia has reached the highest unacceptable level in civilised society, which means that taxes are higher for those with low income but very rich costs very little. Progressive tax system is the basis for the formation of the middle class of society in Latvia, so that every member of society can earn a decent salary through fair work. The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance also took part in the first evaluation of the application, who reported that the Ministry of Finance is ready to achieve greater progress in drafting the relevant guidelines. He noted the topicality of the application, agreed that the tax system should be simplified and informed that guidelines were being developed for 2017-2021. The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance also reported that this addresses two issues. One of these is the reduction of inequalities. At this meeting, it was decided to continue the examination of the application and to listen to representatives of other institutions at subsequent meetings of the Commission, namely those concerned by the request contained in the collective submission. The Commission continued its assessment of the application on 8 February 2017. At this meeting, the representative of the Ministry of Finance informed that the Ministry of Finance could look in the direction of progressive tax system, both by increasing the non-applicable minimum, and by differentiation of personal income tax rates. The representative of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia expressed the idea that introducing such a tax system, when the higher earner pays higher taxes, rather than promoting the development of the country, would slow it down. The representative of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia informed that a progressive tax system would increase the profits of envelope wagers, as well as further distort competition between the legal and “grey” economy. In Latvia, a non-linear or indirectly progressive system of tax rates already exists in the legal economy, which is ensured by establishing the non-applicable minimum personal income tax and reliefs for a dependent person. The representative of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia expressed the view that the best model would be to reduce the rate as much as possible for companies with a high labour cost and a higher value-added economy, but the most unfavourable model was referred to as a progressive tax rate. At its meeting on 1 March 2017, the Commission also heard a representative of the Ministry of Economics. He expressed the Ministry's opinion that this application should be seen in the context of new tax reforms, as well as that representatives of the Ministry should consider how to develop the economy and what concrete measures should be taken. The representative of the Free Trade Union of Latvia stated that if Latvia had a lower share of the shadow economy, it would be possible to discuss which road is better. He pointed out that trade unions disagreed with all the arguments of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia on this issue, however, he admitted that this would slow down the large increase in wages and would have a positive effect on the small wages. The speaker pointed out that representatives of the Free Trade Union of Latvia had submitted many additional proposals, but the main argument is that the Union strongly opposes the increase in social contributions. Having assessed all the information received, the Commission prepared the Mandates, Ethics and Applications together with the Legal Bureau and supported the draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the Latvian citizens’ collective application “On progressive tax systems”” at the meeting of 8 March 2017 and decided to instruct the Ministry of Finance so that the working group on the drafting of the Tax Policy Guidelines for 2017-2021 will evaluate this collective application.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U131	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On progressive tax system” of 10 657 Latvian citizens”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today at 5 p.m. Member of the Parliament: Klementyeva, Potapakina, Ribakava, Orlova and Zarins Minister for Welfare Janis Reirs, on the increase of small pensions and the increase of the non-equitable minimum pension’. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response because he is on mission. Member Elksniņa, Tutina, Agešina, Orlova and Potapkina question to the Minister for Economics Arvilas Aseradens “On a system of mandatory electricity procurement”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On 5 August 2014 Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No.443 “Regulations on State Aid for the Purchase of Living Space or Construction” for Member of the Minister of Economics of Bondara, Kleinberga, Betes, Melgails and Viļuma. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On the question of Member Zarina, Arthur Rubika, Jakimova, Raimonds Rubika and Adamsons, Minister for Economics Arvils Aseradens, about the validity of acquisition of shares in JSC “Conexus Baltic Grid” and the relevance of this transaction to the public interest.” The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. Therefore, today is due to reply to Members' questions at 5 p.m. Members' questions have been received. Members Zarins, Tutins, Agešins, Pimenovs and Ribakovs presented the question “On the sustainability of the state special budget”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “Ivar, are you special?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U132	Hello, colleagues! Yesterday, when we discussed the Prime Minister's report on the work of the government, the Prime Minister said that his team was working... The Cabinet of Ministers headed by him shall serve as a single team. But we pointed out to him that there is one problem, at least one, that in this “single team” one minister, namely the Minister for Welfare, says that there will be no special budget for the country... is not sustainable, but the Minister for Finance says that it is sustainable. We asked for both calculations, but neither one nor the other to prove their claims was unable to produce. Then we promised yesterday to the Prime Minister that we would turn to him so that he would give us these calculations on behalf of this “single team” so that we could make sure that this country's special budget was there. For our part, we are fulfilling our promise today. Let's wait for the Prime Minister to do his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U133	So we refer the question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis for a reply. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Member of the Saeima, Gunārs Kūtris, for reporting the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U134	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Gaidis Berzins, Boriss Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Gundars Dauge, Ints Dālderis, Raivis Dzintars, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anrijs Matīss, Romanas Mežeckis, Nikiforovs, Andris Siliņš, Laimdota Straujuma and Ilze Viņķele.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-16-PT12-410-U135	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
