ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Let's start the Saeima meeting on June 15, 2017! Dear colleagues, if you speak louder than me, I am afraid you will not hear yourself or me. Dear colleagues, Before we start to examine the agenda of the approved sitting, we need to decide on possible amendments to it. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking for changes to the agenda of today's meeting and for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on General Education to be included in it. Do Members have objections? ( Interferences from the drug: “There are objections! ” ) Members object. Oh, Juris Viļums wants to talk. One - for, one - against. Mr Viļuma, you will obviously speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U2	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen! The general education law is quite important for all of us, but I am most saddened by the way in which this particular draft law, let us say so, passes through the Saeima immediately after the elections. Last week, we received this bill shortly before the sitting. At that time, we had no time to get to know it really. It's just a week. Today, it is being put on the agenda and approved at first reading again in an emergency way, and next week, respectively, in second reading. I do not think this is acceptable. I am not going to go into more detail at this point in the substance of this draft law; I am simply calling for such a quick and hastily not to deal with such important issues. All the more so because the specific draft law, when we looked at it in the Commission, has revealed a rather serious, serious error. If such a draft law had been tabled by one of the opposition parties, you would certainly hear the accusation. The problem is that the draft law states that this does not affect the state budget. That's not true. This will certainly affect the national budget. Consequently, I call for this proposal to be rejected for the specific draft law to be included on today's agenda. I call for a 'no' vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U3	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U4	Good morning, colleagues! I think we cannot afford the luxury that Mr Viļuma called for: not to go into the substance of the draft law. We need to go into the substance of the draft law. And the nature of the bill is as follows. In 2015, Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile at the Cabinet of Ministers with the support of Laimdotas Straujuma as a prime minister in a almost bloody battle after extremely difficult and difficult discussions, it was achieved that regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers were issued, which set the minimum threshold for the completion of secondary school. In particular, this regulation, which determines how many children can open secondary school classes, has been in force since 2015. So there's nothing new here. Since these discussions were so complex that, largely behind them, we lost the main focus, namely the children's interests, the children's right to quality education, the work was done on big trains and we did not break this tail. In particular, the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers had to be provided for in law as well. We can correct this right now. At the moment, we can not turn this decision back and leave children behind as hostages in schools where it is not possible to decide that there may be a need to change due to the underperformance of classes. I hope that we will work on the draft law at first reading today. In addition, I would like to point out that transitional rules will be laid down, namely that municipalities will be able to adapt to situations where the number of children is insufficient for one year, but forecasts indicate that the fulfilment of the classes could take place over the next two years. Please stop the practice of taking hostage children in schools with insufficient performance and quality! Please support inclusion of the draft law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting, including the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on General Education! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 14, for - 6. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for amendments to the agenda of today's meeting and its draft decision “On the appointment of the Jekabs Stream as Head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking for changes to the agenda of today's sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to Sport Law” at first reading. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include it in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations” at first reading. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of today’s meeting and to include in it a draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations set out in the Law “On the State Budget for 2017”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the work of today's meeting... No, I'm sorry! ... asks to amend the agenda of today’s sitting and to include the draft decision of the Saeima on the change of the date of the review of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” (No 903/Lp12; urgent) at the Saeima sitting on 22 June 2017. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Five Members - Āboltiņa, Adamovičs, Dalderis, Gauguks and Straujuma - are asking for amendments to the agenda of today's sitting and for them to be excluded from the draft law "Amendments to the law on the markets in financial instruments" and do not see this draft law until a further decision by the Commission. According to the parliamentary roll, one Member can speak "for", one can speak "for". Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U6	Dear colleagues, Last week we survived the passion for the credit institution law, and this week we have already had a new and wonderful example. The draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments" provides for today's third reading and we asked for it to be excluded, stating that the draft law has been legally opposed by the Ministry of Finance in particular and sent an opinion to two pages, which states: "It follows from the proposal to supplement the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments by Article 74.1 as an additional protection mechanism for the protection of minority shareholders' rights that minority shareholders are in a more privileged position vis-à-vis majority shareholders. In particular, it is necessary to assess the situation where the majority shareholder has no financial resources to buy back the shares. This may lead to an additional burden on the majority shareholder by the minority shareholders, requiring the redemption of shares, or even to the insolvency of a financial market participant. Thus, the Ministry of Finance asks that the draft law in this version be rejected, returned to the Commission and reviewed. In a letter to three pages, the Ministry of Justice points out (I will quote only the last sentence): “In view of this, in the view of the Ministry of Justice there is a risk that the wording of Article 74.1 of the proposed Financial Instruments Market Law might be contrary to the Satversme, as the rights of the majority shareholder overrestrict the property - impose an obligation to buy back the shares of other shareholders even after the violation has been eliminated.” The existence of problems with the specific provisions of the article has already been pointed out by the Legal Bureau at second reading. And the Legal Bureau asked for these opinions. Do you think that at the third reading, was the commission prepared to see these legally well-founded objections indicating that there might be risks related to the Constitutional Court? No, no! What do you think: Why? Do you think that “pastors” are only there? No, the “postmen” are here too! If you want to understand these beautiful schemes, in which way “posters” work so well: they do not go on their own, but use a smaller party to whom you can simply be asked to submit this proposal. A representative of a party who, as mentioned in the public space, is connected to one of the last week's detainees - Mr Raituma - has brought this proposal and presented it. In the Commission, this was suddenly strongly supported and no legal argument was taken into account. Of course, this question... This amendment seems to be general. But we know very well that there is a western city, where there is a company, where there is a minority shareholder who, in this way, wants to make it possible for him to dictate the rules for the big shareholders suddenly. Dictate for three years! It's okay, then maybe investors won't come back to Latvia! It's okay that we're going to make a strange idea of ourselves again! But that is what we have been told by someone whose orders are executed without reservations by the STECF Group, while the small party is happy to serve. For the deal to be complete, the little party also needs something. And on June 1, amendments to the State Funded Pensions Law prepared by the opposition... The coalition had agreed on Monday, the coalition had agreed on Wednesday: "We will not support the opposition's proposals! If something important is in it, then we can go to the commission - the committee responsible, Mr. Wucaan! - themselves to submit it!’ No, no! With a cut face while the Saeima Chairman reads the agenda, I am told: 'We will support it!' The national association shall receive an order and support. All of us are in favour! Come on, come on, come on! Both the little party happy, the big party, and the owner happy in the western city! Today we have another shameful amendment, which is legally incorrect, which threatens that Latvia would be an attractive country for investment, because simply for the benefit of someone to avenge someone else, we are amending the law. We propose that it be removed from the agenda, that we see and find a legally correct solution, if possible. But no! This is not possible, because everything is needed right now and now, and the vote in this Saeima is probably enough. Colleagues! I really call for this draft law to be supported and ruled out, and for the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to make and prepare a legally correct solution, which we will not be ashamed of when the President of Latvia returns to it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U7	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has addressed the issue of minority shareholders' rights in the Latvian financial markets several times. This is not a fresh question, it is a question to which we regularly return. It has been worked for both the 10th Saeima and the 11th Saeima. And the reason why we have to talk about this is exactly what Mrs Āboltiņa said: it is the Latvian financial market, or the public financial market. Each of you can open the Riga Stock Exchange website and see how many Latvian companies are publicly traded and liquid. Liquides - this means those with which activities take place regularly. On a daily basis, shares are purchased and sold and are defined as the so-called market price. In Latvia, the companies listed on the official Baltic exchange have about six... five or six, while Estonia has some 20 companies. In Lithuania - about as much. Why am I talking about this? Because there is the so-called second list on the stock exchange, which has enough Latvian companies. But if we look at the liquidity of these companies' shares, then we see zero or very small numbers in front of them. This means that shares are traded once. And the question arises: why does that happen? This is due to the fact that the majority of these companies are owned by large shareholders. So there are those who own the basic package and there are minority shareholders. When buying shares in such companies, they are not guaranteed that they will be able to sell those shares at market price. And that is why this market for our funds has been virtually inactive since the financial crisis in Russia in 1998. And this has become a big problem that has to be addressed in some way. As I said, the Commission has come back to this issue on several occasions. The initiator of the question has usually been the association of minority shareholders (such a non-governmental organisation exists in Latvia!) . And this time, really, the Commissioners were ready to look at the issue in substance and to the end. Those risks which Mrs Āboltiņa spoke about and which are related to a separate article of the Satversme, say, inconsistency, and so on, were discussed at the committee meeting. Both from the Legal Office and from other institutions were the following: it is necessary to make a political decision that everything therefore depends on the will of Members; that in any such situation where the interests of the opposite parties exist - and in this case it is the interests of the big shareholders and the interests of the small shareholders! - As legislator, we have the opportunity to express our views. I do not deny that there was a debate in the Commission on this matter. But the majority of the commission decided to express our support for the fact that once we need to defend these minority interests, and it was also voted on. That's what I wanted to tell you. As you decide, this will, of course, be a decision of the majority of the Saeima in this case. The Commission has supported the promotion of this draft law in the version prepared for third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U9	Thank you. One Member has spoken in favour, one against amendments to the agenda. Please call me! We will vote on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting, excluding from it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” and without looking at this draft law until a further decision of the Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! To - 41, to - 16, to - 21, to - 21. The agenda has therefore been amended and the draft law is excluded from the agenda. Dear colleagues, Let us start by looking at the agreed agenda. The first section is entitled ‘The Bureau reports on draft laws submitted’. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Forest Law’ presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be designated as the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On the appointment of Jacob’s Stream as Head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U10	The Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption discussed and unanimously supported the Saeima’s draft decision “On the appointment of Jacob’s Stream as Head of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau”. The Commission met with the candidates for the post of KNAB president already last week, at its meeting on 6 June, and decided to support his candidacy for the post of KNAB president. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U11	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Artus Neminiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U12	Good morning, Mr. Stree! Every new start needs a leader. Today is the day when, I am sure, Mr Strees will be elected as the new head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption. But in order to make it easier to work, Latvia needs the Law of Lobby, which the President also stressed last week in a seminar on the need for regulation of lobbying. With this, I would like to announce that I have received support from the new head of KNAB, who in a few minutes will officially become such. On participation in the working group, on drafting the Law on Lobbyes, establishing the Register of Lobbyes until the end of this parliamentary term... The working group will work at the next part-session for six weeks... We will work for eight weeks at the next part-session. Each group will receive an e-mail and you will be able to delegate one representative from a group that has been elected here in the Saeima. The working group will be attended by the Legal Bureau of Saeima, Ombudsman, Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia, Employers' Confederation of Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “The agenda is confirmation of Jacob’s Stream!” ) The Presidential Chancellery will support this case, and the Advisor to the Association of Commercial Banks...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U13	Mr. Neighbours, talk about the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U14	KNAB will be easier to work. This case is necessary for the state, but there is no lobby law at the moment. So I've officially announced that the Law of Lobby... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Disable the microphone!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U15	This is not the case with statements. Talk about the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U16	... will be until the end of this term. So, Mr. Streames, I really congratulate you! May you have endurance and strength to build KNAB! These responsibilities will not be easy. But I really... Congratulations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U17	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. I recall that only the draft decision - on the appointment of Mr Strees in this post - can be discussed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U18	Can I also be given extra time to talk? ( Milestones.) In principle... Hello, brothers and sisters! I call on you to vote in favour, but at the same time I say in favour. I let my speech go again... will draw up some sort of an ancestor and will once again be published by journalists. My speech is more directed than at people who judge emotionally, but rather at those who had good maths at school. Why “for” and why “but”? There is no better specialist at present who could fight corruption in Latvia. At the moment, I believe that he is the most experienced and knowledgeable. The data submitted about him show that he is one hundred percent loyal to NATO troops. So at the moment we can also understand it: if NATO troops give back one of their best employees, then it means that NATO is also concerned about the corruption situation in Latvia. ( Milestones.) Okay. Why “but”? In fact, KNAB has not been fighting corruption in the country all the time. Why “but”? The facts show that corruption is organised and covered by former KGB staff, the network of agents and its followers. Why “but”? Part of this Network of KGB agents is covered by the Security Police and the SAB. Why “but”? By placing good people in a bad system, the system destroys people. Why “but”? Because the system has to be arranged first. Political parties must be financially sufficiently independent and have sufficient resources for electoral campaigns. Don't let political parties drink water out of the well as a guard in the desert. Lots should have plenty of water so that they don't drink the water that's in the well. Next “Why”. The system must be set up. Officials who organise public procurement, who organise work in our country, must be sufficiently motivated, well paid to achieve the objectives, and simply punished for the violations. Next. I also said this to Mr Strees: the staff of KNAB must be sufficiently motivated and sufficiently remunerated to attract the best specialists. That is what I said to Mr Strees: I personally would be afraid of fighting corruption. ( Milestones.) There must be these guarantees, security, so that... And even after they leave... Why? Because, in fact, KNAB's manager has to fight against companies that earn millions of dollars a year, which are able to hire security services (I also hire security services in my company). And these security services often cross our law enforcement system, our security system and, in many cases, the KNAB itself. Next. At the moment, I think that Mr. Strees is absolutely not a well-motivated team. As far as I know, seven years of work is needed to succeed. I'm afraid he doesn't have enough time to set up a team. And the last thing I want to say. Why “but”? When I Was Close to Corruption (Dep. S. Aboltiņa: “Then Mr. Streames will come after you!” ), then actually the KNAB leaders... had to fight against those people who appointed and supported them in this position. At the moment, I see the appointment of Mr Strees as more than the last attempt to fight corruption. It's my view: it won't work, it won't work! - If we do not change the system and do not really support Mr. Streame.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U20	However, I call on the honourable Members to return to the specific draft decision and not to focus on abstract theories. For my part, I would like to say that we met with Mr Streame at the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. We 12 Members each had one or more questions for him. The answers we received were quite hopeful, let us not say perfect, because a person comes from a system that doesn't try much to talk but more to do. But I think that, let's say, he's gonna fix it in time, and I know that with tomorrow he's got a pretty detailed schedule, a meeting with journalists and... Well, for one thing, I can agree with what Mr. Nunozol said. It seems to us that, if KNAB will "buck" its boss this time, then obviously this will be the last attempt to maintain such an organisation that spends so much money, but so far it is - in recent years! - Quite inefficient, I guess it's gonna be hard. I ask to support Mr Streames and give the office the opportunity to recover from the previous crisis, restore citizens' confidence and really fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U21	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? There is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of the Jekabėna Stree as Head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. Congratulations to James Straums on entering the new office! (Applause) Dear colleagues, Before we start to discuss the next item on the agenda, we still need to decide on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law “Amendments to Forest Law” drawn up by the Commission be placed on the agenda of today’s meeting for consideration at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials” to be reviewed at the first reading of today’s meeting without re-examination by the responsible commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for amendments to the agenda of today’s sitting and the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” (first reading) to be included in the section “Review of draft laws” as the next question on the agenda item 12 – the draft law “On Transfer of State Forest Land to Valmiera City Municipality”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. Dear colleagues, We shall continue to examine the agreed agenda. Examination of draft decisions Draft decision “On changing the date of consideration of the draft law “Amendments to Construction Law” (No 903/Lp12; urgent) at the Saeima sitting to June 22, 2017. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the change of the date of consideration of the draft law “Amendments to Construction Law” (No 903/Lp12; urgent) at the Saeima sitting to June 22, 2017”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U22	Good morning, colleagues! We are working on amendments to the Buildings Energy Efficiency Act at second reading - given that the law is urgent - so last, final reading. In total, 11 proposals have been received by the Commission. One of these is the proposal of Arvil Asheraden, the Minister for Economic Affairs of the Prime Minister, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U23	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U24	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U25	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U26	3. - The proposal of Prime Minister Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U27	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U28	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U29	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U30	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U31	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U32	6. - A proposal by Arvil Asheraden, a member of the Prime Minister's Economic Minister. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U33	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U34	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U35	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U36	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U37	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U38	9. is a proposal from the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima, which includes proposal 8 and has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U39	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U40	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U41	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U42	Last, 11 - the proposal by Arvil Asheraden, the Minister for Economic Affairs of the Prime Minister, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U44	We have therefore examined all 11 proposals. I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings, second, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Information Technology Security, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U46	Dear colleagues, Five proposals have been tabled for the third reading. The proposal is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U47	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U48	The proposal is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U50	Proposal 3 is the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis, which is partly included in the proposal 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U51	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U52	4. - the proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U53	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U54	And 5. - the proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U55	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U56	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security" in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Bars’, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U58	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! See the bill “Amendments to the Law on Barn Courts”. The Legal Commission has received and examined five proposals. 1. - the proposal of welfare minister Reira. It is partly supported, included in 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U59	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U60	2. - The proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides for a new procedure for the development and publication of ethical principles and behavioural standards of orphanage employees by the Latvian Association of Barents. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U62	3. - a proposal from the Minister for Welfare which has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U63	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U64	4. - a proposal from the Minister for Welfare. It is partly supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U65	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U66	And 5. - a proposal by the Legal Commission for the entry into force of this regulation or its application from 1 September of this year. It should be noted that until 1 September of this year, the regulation included in Section 4 of the Law on the Barents and thus determines the procedure for drawing up the principles of professional ethics and accessibility of orphans. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U68	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Barents to be discussed in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U69	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the adoption of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Barents in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Press and Other Media", third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Lolita Čigāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U70	Dear colleagues, We are working with amendments to the law “On the Press and other media”. The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission received six proposals for the third reading of the draft law. 1. - Mr Valaina's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U71	Members agree... I'm sorry! Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U72	Dear Bureau! Honourable Members! Of course, Mr Valaiņš' proposal is well understood and states that (The head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) local authorities’ information expenditure is therefore not a press release. It's logical and understandable, but the question is, what happens when they're not these municipalities... These press publications? It would therefore be logical for them to be governed by another law, namely the Law on Local Authorities. However, such proposals have been tabled there, but they have not been dealt with for a very long time. Thus, in fact, these costs remain in the grey zone. And if they remain in the grey zone, it would probably be important to understand what the will of Members is then to adopt such a point. And that is, certainly, the will of the Members cannot be that, as a result, they are expenditure that is not regulated by anything, and they can do what they want. It is a wish that they are not really press publications, not only in legal terms, but also in substance. For these are expenses that publish municipal statements and municipal documents and information to citizens, instead of publishing interviews with municipal employees and Members, and are formed on fictitious press publications, which, in turn, have no regulation. I think that we understand this proposal in this way, and I think it was important to say it from the platform as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U73	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Lolita Chiganė.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U74	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, Mr Cilinski spoke about an issue that was widely discussed at the Commission's meeting. Indeed, Mr Cilinski is that there is no law defining what the local authority's information publication is. But this is the law on the press and other media, and because we cannot get... It is as you said that a proposal for an amendment to the Law on Municipalities has been tabled for a very long time, namely to define local government information expenditure. Unfortunately, this process is drawing very, very long. A compromise text has been found that satisfies a very large number of parties, but still does not go ahead, and at the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, it has been argued on several occasions that the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government must finally get there and that the law should be moved forward. The President of the Commission, Mr Dolgopolova, has always said that we are too close to the municipal elections, and therefore we cannot change the order in which the elections take place, and therefore we cannot change this law. I do not, of course, agree with this argument, because the status of information expenditure is in no way linked to the electoral administration. But, well, the municipal elections have now passed, and I very much hope that, in response to Mr Cilinska's call, the National Administration and Municipal Commission will receive and incorporate this very necessary, clear amendment into this law. After fundamental discussions, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs agreed that Mr Valaiņa's proposal, it is this proposal, should be supported, because we are going halfway forward, introducing clarity that municipalities are not spending the press, but issuing something else, and we have not defined something else. But here at least we have made half a step forward, saying that it is not the press. In the Commission, as I said, this proposal, Mr Valaiņa's proposal, has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U75	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U76	The Commission is therefore asking Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U77	Does anyone insist on the vote? No, no. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U78	2. - The proposal from the Member's neighbor. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U79	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Artus Neminiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U80	The essence of the proposal is to prohibit municipalities from publishing their newspapers. And that's what we've been talking about for a long time. Six months ago, the Saeima rejected this type of proposal. Now it's written in other letters, but the idea is the same. Local governments have to issue information reports on how many sittings have been held, what decisions have been made, and do not have to deal with rogue journalism, and do not have to write praiseful articles about how good or bad a council employee or manager is. Because bad will never be written there. This distorts the market. Local authorities must deal with regional press publications for economic operators and not for the local authorities. If, in the case of Latvia, there is a place where there is no regional press, such a case is regulated by Section 88 of the Law on State Administration Structure, which provides that in such cases the Competition Council, which makes up the research, then the municipality can set up its own capital company and issue the relevant regional newspaper from the municipality. The State does not have to carry out the functions of the private sector. In the Commission, this proposal was not supported by Dzintaras Zaķis, Brigmanis and, of course, SASKAŅAS two Members, but supported by Mrs Mūrniece, the head of the Commission, Mrs Laizāne, Mr Kaimina, Mrs Chigāne... One voice was missing. I guess I called everyone, right? This could be a wonderful gift to Raimonds Vejonis on his birthday today. ( The utterances: “Tomorrow! ”) “Today!” ) Those who do not know do not speak. Dzintar Zakis said that... What will happen then to the university publications, which will be with “The Name of the Jurist”, which will be with “The Guardian of the Fathers”, which will be with “The News of Latvia”? About university newspapers. If my proposal is supported, then in university newspapers... The Law on Higher Education already provides that there should be scientific press publications for universities themselves. About “Latvijas Vēstnesis”. It has already been recorded in the law, and it does not interfere. About “The Guardian of the Fathers”. The Ministry of Defence can set up a foundation or association and then issue a “Father’s Guardian”. On “The Name of the Lawyer”. The same as “Latvijas Vēstnesis”: it is a capital company that will become an agency. And that doesn't interfere! This has already been recorded in the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information. So there's a question of political will here, colleagues! Oh! Who else supported? Of course! Forget to name - supported by Latvian Municipal Union, supported by the Competition Council, supported by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, supported by the Latvian Press Publishing Association. All these institutions and groups of people that I have called support for all this, and it has long been a matter of talking about this. I very much hope that the opposition will also support this proposal and we will ban local governments from buying taxpayers' money! This is a distortion of the market and should not be. My other proposals relate to this proposal. Therefore, there is absolutely no place for any concern that this proposal could in any way cast shadows on what I have already mentioned. That's not the case! The Legal Bureau has acknowledged that there is no reason for concern. This is just a question of big local government leaders. Only for them! I am asking for my proposal to be supported and for the local authorities to be allowed to issue information expenses only, and not the press. Municipalities do not have to deal with mass media expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U81	Thank you. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U82	Dear colleagues, Member Kaimiņš tends to stand up with a stormy activity, which has little meaning and little contribution, establishing various working groups, calling questioning people, wearing them and the like. But in this situation, the Member has managed to formulate a correct and good proposal, which was acknowledged by the various parties involved in the discussion and also by the Legal Bureau. The Saeima has already taken the first step in this law. We have said that freedom of expression does not belong to institutions. Freedom of expression belongs to individuals who combine, for example, by establishing press publications and exercising their freedom of expression. This norm was very old-fashioned, lagging behind, and we corrected it. We took the second step in supporting Mr Valaiņa's proposal and saying that this law does not apply to information expenditure by municipalities, so it is not a press release. Mr. Neighbours proposes that we go further and say that there is no press release by legal persons governed by public law. Thus, state and municipal institutions, capital companies and other types of institutions do not issue press releases. They are spending something else: informational expenditure, which we will hopefully once define in the Law “On Local Government”. With regard to the specialized expenses that our colleague Zaķis will be coming to tell us about - “Latvijas Vēstnesis” and other specialized expenses - we were told very specifically by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima that it has to be discussed in individual laws and each of these publications has such separate laws. In this case, my fellow Members, I would ask you all to look beyond what Mr. Neighbours has done, and not always to make us happy, and to support this proposal simply because it is qualitative in nature. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Simplely support the proposal! Please support the proposal!’ ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U83	Thank you. The name of the Member Dzintārs Zaķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U84	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the situation is that Mr Kaimina and Mrs Chigana have a very good aim, but this solution is not really being sought where it should be. In other words, there is a great deal of hunger going on at the moment. There are a number of municipalities in Latvia, which own capital companies that spend their expenses. They will not be covered by this amendment. We now took out the informational expenses of the municipality, placing them thus outside this law. This means that they will be able to continue to praise themselves calmly and do everything that Mr. Neminina does not want to do. This will take place until the local government law is put in order. So again, the law “On Municipalities”. In my opinion, the right solution is not to try to make amendments to this law now. In my opinion, the right solution is to press the law “On Municipalities” with all force. The situation with what the previous speakers have already mentioned here is not as simple as you said - with the Guardian of the Fathers, with the Word of Jurist, with the expenditure of universities. The Legal Bureau sat in the commission and always said: “Yes, but you will have to solve the fact that all these expenses will be spent... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “No! Don’t lie, Zaki!” ) all these expenses will have to be converted into capital companies. On the other hand, the Law on State Administration Equipment, if I am not mistaken, provides that any situation for the State must be addressed in the cheapest possible way. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Stop lying!” ) And it is not the cheapest that we will now have to make new capital companies so that we can spend all these expenses... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Now it’s not true, come on!” ) Take a verbatim report and read it! If you want to hear what you want to hear, but you don't hear what everyone in the commission is talking about, then it's rather sad. I therefore call for this draft law not to be supported... this specific proposal. And if, in the case of any of the applicants - or Mr Neighbours or Mrs Chiganas who is supporting the cuneiform - bring a really package of other draft laws and are prepared to amend all other laws right away, then it could still be possible to have a discussion. At present, if other laws are not amended, the country will have only considerable expenditure. And Mr. Kaimiņš runs counter: he has always protected public taxpayers' money, but now suddenly he is ready to invest in the creation of new capital companies. It's not fair and it's not fair! I therefore call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U85	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U86	Hello, second time! I invite you to vote against the proposals of the owner of the “dog method”! Why? Because the media is a very important thing in a democratic country. Where there are more than five thousand voters, there, in principle, the situation of democracy is very dependent on the mass media that flushes their brains. Whatever we say and no matter how heroic we want to express ourselves, a person in his psychotype is a very manipulative person, especially with public opinion. What else do I mean? You don’t have to stick to that strange slogan – “independent media”. There is no independent media! Every medium belongs to a owner, and every medium is manipulated by that owner and expresses the wishes of that owner. Let us be aware of this! And if we take the municipality away from standing in front of these independent media, we will just destroy our country or our municipality. Then our tone will be determined by so-called independent media. What concerns me most right now? Those independent media that exist in Latvia and that do not belong to the state of Latvia by 80 per cent. I personally would stick to the Singapore principle, because mass media are washing the brains for us and our constituents. If we don't put anything in front of this brainwashing, then it'll be the way they're owners want. And the municipalities must be able to stand in front of this flushing. Yes! The problem is that in many cases this media is used by the local government position. Let us then take action and fight for this not to happen, but let us leave the opportunity to stand in front of these so-called independent media! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U87	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U88	Dear colleagues, We very much like imposing all kinds of restrictions, but will we achieve the declared objective with this proposal? Does it automatically guarantee the independence of the media if the media is established by a legal person under private law or by a natural person? I don't think so! I would, however, like to disagree with the interpretation of the principle of freedom of expression proposed by Mrs Chigan. Colleagues! Freedom of expression involves not only freedom to disseminate information, but also freedom to receive information. And municipalities have a duty - a statutory obligation! - to inform the public of their activities and of the facts and actions and of the circumstances of interest to the population of the municipality concerned. I would like to emphasise: the municipality has a duty to do so! At present, the Law “On Municipalities” does not specify which methods can be used to fulfil this obligation. If you want to regulate, please make amendments to the relevant law! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Žigāne: “It’s already incorporated!” ) But here it is definitely out of place. This will not achieve its objective. This, contrary to what Mrs Chiganne said, restricts freedom of expression because it limits the possibility of obtaining information. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U89	Thank you. The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U90	Minnosol - ZZS. Cilevičs. What else was against it? It happens that the big cities are just. That's it! One municipal edition... No, it's not a release... The newspaper costs 33,000 a year. On average. 33 000 euros are taken from taxpayers to issue a newspaper, which is not an information publication. If we speak allegory, then let's imagine, there's a machine that doesn't have fuel and has one tire through. What must be done first: to pour fuel or replace a tyre? In principle, two works have to be carried out. Start it! No matter what you're doing, that car will go ahead. In this case, Mr Zaķis, in support of this proposal, this machine will begin to move forward, i.e. there will be no influence of the municipality. And the brainwash, which was already mentioned by the praised Member. It's already that brainwash - with these municipal expenditures! That's what it's like to wash! The municipality should be informed, not washed. Then let these same municipalities begin to do painting just as well! Why do artists paint paintings? After all, this can be done by local authorities. And that's exactly the same thing. Please support my proposal. Thank you. Oh, by the way, I can even say: this is not my proposal! May this be another proposal! Imagine that this is not my proposal, but that it is Oyars Ērika Kalniņš!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U91	Yes! Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U92	Honourable Members! I fully agree with what Mr Kaimiņš and Mrs Chiganas have said. I looked at the expenses of some municipalities and, you know, they were, so to speak, really sad. There was, to be honest, nothing to read. And if we look at the economic activity of municipalities, say, waste management or transport, there are also quite sad things. In my opinion, there must be some universal principle. If Mr. Kaimina believes that the municipality does not have to deal with it, then we must adopt a law that really prohibits the municipality from doing business. If we do not have such a law, which prohibits the municipality from doing business, then I have little doubt whether we can selectively indicate, prohibit or authorise, let us say, that the municipality may or may not deal with these matters. Local governments, in line with the Charter of the European Union, for example, may set up and many municipalities have already created a gallery of paintings. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What will appear in the paintings?Oh, no, “ Local governments can set up a radio studio. No one can ban this. In the European Union, many local authorities have their own radio and television studios. It is not prohibited by the Charter of the European Union. And here I am terrified by the fact that we can violate the principle of the European Charter of Local Authorities, namely that the municipality is an association of free citizens, which can do absolutely everything that is not prohibited by law. But now we want to ban by law the issue of this newspaper, which I don't like because - I stress! - I haven't seen any such an interesting newspaper. Consider what happened 10 years ago when “Daily” belonged to the publishing house Bonnier. The district’s newspapers were massively bought to force them to share the same view. We know what these newspapers advertised both for the family, for traditional values, and for some other opinions. That is why I think that, in accordance with the principles of the municipal charter, if these local people do not like how this council spends their money, then they must re-elected that council. Of course, I can argue that such newspapers have an impact on the opinion of the public. So we believe that all the people living in municipalities are stupid if they agree, say, with a thought that issues some kind of municipal newspaper. In any case, as I said, despite the fact that I have not seen interesting expenditure by the municipality, I will refrain from supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U93	Thank you. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U94	Dear colleagues, Mr Cilevičs, Member of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, has a very strange understanding of the issues of freedom of expression. When we discussed this draft law for the second reading, the representative of the Saeima Legal Bureau said that Article 1 “Freedom of the Press” of this law reflects colhoza thinking. We have received this amendment to Article 1, but Mr Cilevič still lives in colhoza thinking. I am just surprised that Mr Cilevičs, who has long represented the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is the oldest human rights organisation and in which the principle of freedom of expression is one of the basic principles, does not understand in such a way that by this law no one will prevent municipalities from informing citizens, will not prevent the publishing of ballot papers, brochures, newsletters, informational publications, will tell about the repairs of heat streams, about various other needs, will not prevent municipalities from communicating with their citizens. It will only be said that this is not a press release. If Mr. Cilevič does not understand this and Mr. Kirštein does not understand it, I am sorry, you are stuck in colhoza thinking!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U95	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U96	Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that some colleagues, when they lack arguments, are starting to use personal attacks and insults. In my view, this is not in line with the principles of our Code of Conduct. And I won't do the same thing. Regarding the interpretation of human rights... I didn't do anything but a definition. Perhaps some of our colleagues, who consider themselves to be very large professionals, should also read these definitions from time to time to remind themselves of what freedom of expression is. Thank you, Mr. Neighbours. Speaking for the second time, he actually very clearly lit up his motivation. What did Mr. Neighbours say? Very clear: Do not act in our corporate interests. Let journalists write that journalists deserve it, but you don't come in there! And that's it! Thus, in fact, municipalities are offered to pay and earn the newspapers that are established and issued by legal entities. Colleagues, it's called lobbying! I have heard many times how Mr. Neighbours, from this troupe, spoke very keenly against lobbying, and so on, now Mr. Neighbours is doing exactly corporate lobbying, not anything else. I think that this proposal should, however, be rejected. And maybe we'll go on with the work we've started... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I agree, Mrs Chiganas, that, in support of the proposal 1, we took the first step in the right direction in principle. And quietly, without lobbying, without corporate interests, we will continue this work!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U97	Thank you. The name of the Member, John Crag.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U98	Dear colleagues, I am not here the biggest speaker, but unlike many of my colleagues who have spoken here, I am in the municipality every week. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “I also!” ) I fear that you do not even know what a municipality is. Mr. Neighbours, if you need to talk here, then... You know, it's just getting pathetic, listening to it. When there are no more arguments, the personalities are discussed... Well, that's a very primitive method, but what are you gonna do? There's always been some actors in the family. I remember, there's been a lot of actors here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “The thing is talking!” ) The case is very simple. The municipality simply needs such an informational edition - and not the municipality, but the residents! And to find out about this issue, basically began baking nothing about anything. Here we can already fry, but there are no problems on the ground. Everything is happening there - unlike these pointless, empty discussions that are here. A Sociological Survey (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Where is it?” ) (I will bring you the results, Mr. Kaimiņš), and there 90 percent of the population said that Livani...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U99	You can't talk to the hall!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U100	... information publication of the municipality council “The News of Līvāni Municipality”, which is published once a month after the meeting of the council and contains simple information material and something else that is applied there... the people said they needed it. And I deeply understand Mr. Kirštein when he says, “Well, there’s no interesting newspaper!” Yeah, it's not. There's nothing to read. Indeed, Mr Kirštein, you are intellectual, that is beyond doubt, and I would wonder if you had something to read there. There's no publication... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Why should be the press publication?” ) what we are talking about here, which cannot be published. Practical information is published there that, in fact, if you live in another municipality, you are not even interested. But it is necessary for the residents of a particular district or parish. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “You are from the colhoza, Cuz!” ) By discussing it so passionately here, we have, in fact, long forgotten what citizens expect of us. Think about it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “How many times have you been mentioned in that Livani newspaper?” ) It makes no sense to speak. If you come with the idea that you need to organise a gallery of paintings, well, it shows your understanding of what is happening in municipalities, and that is, I think, simply sadly low. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “In each! Every one! Why should you be in that Livani newspaper?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ") I call for this proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U101	Thank you. Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U102	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! I call for a distinction to be made between local government expenditure. Mr Craga is so zealous in defending the printed materials of local governments that he forgets how often they look and what damage they do. What do they look like? Detective with continuation. Every week the television programme is published for all channels, crossword puzzles, ads that are not in any way related to the daily work of the municipality. Why do I list all this? Because the citizen is completely pleased to receive this publication: he does not have to spend real press, real media, which is being ejected from the market. In several districts, in several regions, in several municipalities, it is really independent - independent of the municipality! - There's no press anymore. There is only a municipal edition, which, like Russian television, is filled with entertainment to hold the viewer, and everything else is propaganda - the famous materials of local governments. Do we want to protect those expenses?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think it has already been said on several occasions that the local government's publication should be purely informational about what is happening in the local government, what decisions have been made, what temporary burdens will be, for example, by repairs and so on, and so on, that is, ads relating to the local government's work. However, in no way should such expenditure have the possibility of extorting from the market normal (in full terms) press publications - those which are in line with the concept of the media. I call on you to support the proposal made by the Member in the Neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U103	Thank you. The debate is closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The neighbor's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 35, against - 40, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U104	3. - The proposal from the Member's neighbor. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U105	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U106	4. - The offer from Member Dambe. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U107	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U108	5. - The proposal from the Member's neighbor. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U109	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U110	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U111	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U112	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U113	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”” at third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Road Transport Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U114	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Road Transport Act. Overall, one proposal has been received for the draft law, which is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U115	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U116	In view of the fact that we have examined the only proposal put forward, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U117	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Law” at third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. Draft law on the transfer of state forest land to Valmiera City Municipality, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Inesis Boķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U118	Good morning, honourable colleagues! To the third reading of the draft law “On Transfer of State Forest Land to Valmiera City Municipality” (Interface: “The conflict of interests!” ) no proposals have been submitted. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U119	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On Transfer of State Forest Land to Valmiera City Municipality” at third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Inesis Boķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U120	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” (No 931/Lp12). The addition to Article 44 is necessary to enable the municipality, in very specific cases, to develop an administrative area by improving the quality of life in the region for all citizens, as well as by promoting employment and economic development in general. The Commission has drawn up this draft law, which provides for the addition of Section 44 of the Forest Law to Part 4.1. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to make this draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U121	In accordance with the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote in favour of granting urgency to the draft law. Please call me! We will vote in favour of granting urgency to the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U122	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U123	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals as well as a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U124	Given that Members have supported the draft law at first reading with no reservations, I call for this draft law to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U125	Are there any objections to Members if we are considering this at second reading without having to look again at the Commission? Members shall not object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U126	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U127	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U128	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law "Amendments to the Commercial Law" at the third, therefore final, reading. A total of 32 proposals were received by the Commission. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which has been partly supported and included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U129	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U130	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U131	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U132	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U133	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U134	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U135	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U136	5. - Dzintar Rasnač's proposal. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U137	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U138	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U139	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U140	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U141	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U142	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. There is no support in the Commission. 9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U143	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U144	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U145	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U146	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U147	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U148	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U149	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U150	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U151	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U152	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U153	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U154	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partly supported and included in proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U155	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U156	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U157	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U158	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U159	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U160	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported and included in proposals 17 and 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U161	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U162	The 19th proposal, which includes, in part, the previous proposal, is a proposal from the responsible commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U163	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U164	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U165	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U166	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U167	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U168	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U169	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U170	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U171	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U172	24. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U173	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U174	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The next proposal - 26 - has been partly supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U175	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U176	The 26th proposal, which includes the previous proposal of the Minister of Justice, comes from the committee responsible and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U178	27. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U179	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U180	28. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U181	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U182	29. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U184	30. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U185	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U186	31. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Partly supported and included in the next proposal 32.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U187	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U188	32. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U189	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U190	So, colleagues, we have examined all 32 proposals and I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law at third reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U191	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Commercial Law" in the third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Animal Protection Act, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U192	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Animal Protection Law. As you are well aware, these amendments to the Animal Protection Law provide for restrictions on the possibility to use animals in attractions and circuses, by stating that in future only those animal species which are included in a special list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers will be used in attractions, including circuses. This is the wording of the third reading compromise that has been created in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy: a positive list of animals that can be used either in circus or in attractions. And there are also 12 proposals for these things. Thus, Proposal 1 provides that the Cabinet of Ministers will draw up, on the basis of certain criteria, a list of certain species of animals which may be trained and publicly displayed as entertainment animals, including circuses. And this proposal, colleagues, is linked to 2 and 7. - proposals from the committee responsible. This is a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U193	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate is for Ms Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U194	Dear colleagues, At a time when, in two readings, the Saeima has clearly rejected the authorisation of wild animals - free and captive - to use the circus and has left another possibility - to ruin everything that we and animal defenders have spoken and accepted for several months and that has been supported - I will remind you! - Working group of experts from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Service, Latvian University of Agriculture, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Ministry of Nature Protection, Ministry of Culture, Riga National Zoo, as well as non-governmental animal protection organisations: Animal Freedom, Animal SOS, Animal Friend's Foundation, Latvian Central Animal Protection Society, Animal Society Ulubele, we are invited to do nothing today. Don't decide anything? Don't write anything in the law? I quote the proposal: ‘Publicly, in the form of sightseeing animals (including circuses) are allowed to appear species whose list has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of the criteria.’ So let's get everything back to decision-making at the Cabinet? To start everything from the beginning, to form new working groups again? ( This has been working under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture for a long time to bring this bill to the Saeima.) Is there no need for Parliament at all? Let all of this be decided by the ministries? Moreover, the delegation referred to in the proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers is very wide in law. And the criteria can also be set by the Cabinet of Ministers? So the list of so-called authorised animals could be one, two or so hundred animal species? In essence, this is a treacherous proposal that allows the use of animals of wild species, but the Saeima has already rejected it twice. At the request of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, in preparation for the third reading of the draft law, the Ministry of Agriculture submitted a qualitative proposal for a mandatory clarification list, and this did not provide for (!) the possibility of using wild species in the circus. What else do we want?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The European Federation of Veterinarians, whose aim is to promote animal health, welfare and public health, has long been recommending that all European and national competent authorities prohibit wild mammals throughout Europe (I stress, mammals!) use in travelling circuses, because there is no possibility to meet the necessary levels of physiological, mental and social needs of these animals. On the one hand, the defender of the old circus model, my colleague Jūlija Stepanenko, has saturated public space with an opinion (I quote): “If only the Saeima and the government would also bring together associations of children, families and socially vulnerable groups, as they are doing now with animals, if journalists were to follow every gesture and expression of human societies as closely as possible, then I think we would live in an ideal country.” ( End quoted) But on the other hand, it itself calls for the opposite: to continue with the issue of animals for months, perhaps even for years in an empty public space, while the hidden reason is to leave everything old. I can take two more minutes... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U195	Do Members have reservations if Mrs. Ribena also uses the second time - two minutes? Keep going, you have two minutes! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U196	We live in a parliamentary state. The decision has to be made by the Saeima! The majority of society, especially the younger part of society, calls for a ban on the use of wild animals in circuses, both in freedom and in captivity. Over a long period of time, both society, the media and the Saeima have spoken of ethics coded in our culture and traditions of centuries. As was the point at one time of the gladiators' fights in the arena, it is time to put an end to the torture of wild animals in the circus - pundura, bardain women and Siama twins. I call on the Saeima not to spend too much time or delay. I invite you not to shift your responsibility to the Cabinet of Ministers. Colleagues, it is time to make a decision! I call for this proposal to be rejected, as well as all further proposals related to the establishment of the Cabinet of Ministers - proposals 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U197	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U198	Dear colleagues, I think that, when actively discussing this draft law at first reading, second reading, even before the third reading, it is almost clear to everyone whether he is for or against wild animals in the circus. And I would not speak today if we could understand clearly when we read the proposal how to vote to achieve one or the other objective. Unfortunately, this is a difficult situation today, and when I read the proposals, I think that people - even with legal education! - it is not clear to the end: how it is necessary to vote in order to achieve one objective or another. I therefore considered it my duty to draw your attention to the substance of the proposals that have been tabled. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy considers it to be a compromise. But what can be the compromise if there are two options: to be or not wild animals in the circus? What is it about compromise? Let it be disciplined - it is not a compromise, because it does not satisfy either side. And so I think there is no reason to believe that 1, 2, 7 and 11. - the proposals of the committee responsible - there is some compromise. In essence, these interrelated proposals provide that wild animals will remain in the circus. There will be a list of individual animals to be included - maybe the pigeons will be, maybe the elephants will not be... But in principle, wild animals will be in the circus. ( Interface: Which proposal is "for" about which?) ) If you think this is right, then you can support the Commission’s proposals. If, in your opinion, wild animals should not be in the circus, then you must vote against "no" 1, 2, 7 and 11. - proposals from the committee responsible. On the other hand, support must be given in full! - A proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture. My personal view is that we must act in accordance with the first and second readings and prohibit the use of animals in circuses. So please do not support proposal 1. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U199	Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. But there is a proposal from Members... So, I guess two proposals have to be read... The first proposal is, therefore, from Members Mr Smilten, Mr Bondara, Mr Brigmann, Mr Agešin and Mr Dzintara: to continue to examine the entire agenda without interruption until all issues are examined. And there is a newer proposal: instead of traditional 30 minutes, to declare a break for five minutes after the examination of proposal 1 - that is, the proposal that we are currently looking at. And this proposal has also been tabled by five Members - Smilten, Berzins, Mežulis, Brigmanis and Skujiņš. Do Members have reservations if we are considering this proposal 1 and then declaring a break for five minutes, and then continuing the sitting? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ; “Ir!” ) According to the Rule of Procedure, one can speak “for”, one – “to”. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U200	Colleagues! I understand that exceptions can ever be made - when there is very little left to discuss. Then we can do no break. But this norm is completely absurd! At the last sitting, we did not take a break and worked continuously over 12 noon. Well, it's not a normal job! Just stop! For us, the order book of the Saeima sets out the order in which we work. Of course, we can also consider the possibility of voting on this first proposal, because perhaps after the vote on this proposal there might be a need for clarity or correction and then a half-hour break. But this is the only thing I call for to vote on. Otherwise, we are really turning into an absurd... It's about: we finish as soon as possible so that we can leave or... What's going on here?Oh, no, no, no, no, I want to schedule time normally. Order roller predicts: from 10.30 to 11.00 - break. Please note that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U201	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U202	‘Consumers’ solidarity. Why do you think it is... This proposal, which you have heard - for work without interruption - has been signed by the representatives of all the groups, including the group leader, Raivis Dzintars, including the opposition, who is very well aware that we can deal with this issue. Then there are no more issues to be debated. Why do we need a break? Well, we've got a call that the bill we took out of here must get back. The sitting is already... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Solvita, I don’t believe you!” ) The sitting has already been convened... We need to get back the law on the market in financial instruments. And then suddenly, the “debtors” solidarity... ‘postmen’... And let's go! And now we are talking against it. The meeting may also be convened afterwards. Not the first time, not the last time we work without interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U203	Thank you. So, as my Legal Bureau advises, first of all we must vote in favour of the proposal to introduce a break - five minutes - after the examination of the proposal 1. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “Why? We shall vote on the motions." ) The order of submission, yes... Yes! Mr. Urbanovich is right. The most radical proposal must be voted on first. Consequently, on the proposal to continue the Saeima session without interruption. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What’s going on?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, “ Please call me! So let us vote in favour of the proposal to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda have been discussed! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 10, for - 2. So let's continue the Saeima session without interruption. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U204	Good afternoon, third time! I call for the vote in favour. Why? ... ( Long break.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U205	Mr. Nunozol! Your name.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U206	Yes! I'd really like to... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Why for? We don't have such circus animals in Latvia. And everything that's happening here now, I think it's a social experiment. I would like to give an example, which seems not to be relevant to this issue, but which is a very important example of the situation. I watch television from time to time, and television recently had an experiment with women’s audience, whose beginnings asked the woman: “Can you cheat your wife or husband or can’t?” She said, “No way!” Then, during the social experiment, when talking to these women for several hours, the woman expressed the following opinion: “You can cheat if a man doesn’t bring enough money at home.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “It’s another question, Mr. Nanozol!” ) Why is there a social experiment? Because the survey was initially carried out and the majority of the population said that animals should be in the circus. The majority of the population said that animals should be in the circus! But now they are doing a social experiment: “How will it be? How will the Saeima decide? We'll put people down to the Saeima, put them in a baby's cage, and maybe then the Saeima will decide what the majority does not want." Is this possible? Yes! As I can see, it is possible to do it. Despite the fact that initially the majority of the population said that animals should be in the circus, the Saeima has decided contrary to the opinion of the majority of the population. So the social experiment has succeeded: it is possible with standing outside, with loud shouting to achieve, change people's opinion, our opinion. The most unpleasant thing for me is that a couple of days ago, the children were put in the cage, and they were told to sit at the Saeima. Finally, I call on you, dear colleagues: let us make a better deal... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We lack tax money in the economy. Let's take care of the economy! Let us not raise taxes! Let's get the economy fixed so that the money comes! Let us spend our time not on social experiments, but on our children.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U207	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U208	Dear colleagues, This issue is not so important as to be in first or second place in Latvia. Unfortunately, looking at how the mass media is spreading and paying more attention to this issue, I just find that the matter of circus has, in a way, exposed the so-called organization of animal defenders, whose members have shown themselves, so to speak, from its worst side. Because we see that they are very keen to defend animals, but at the same time they are not talking about the welfare of animals allowed for farming, nor of wild animals, nor about the welfare of animals kept in private collections. No one is interested in this issue. This issue is completely uninterested by these animal defenders, and the issue of the ban on total fur animals in Latvia is even somewhat frightened. Despite the fact that two years ago signatures were collected and various campaigns were taken, this time animal defenders do not want to talk about it. They have come to the Saeima today to talk about a couple of pigeons and one llamas that we may allow with this exception. Members are currently under pressure from a narrow group of interests, which seems to represent the interests of the animals. Such similar organisations in Europe are also linked, according to Europol data, to domestic terrorism and threats to national security. (In 2011 the participants of the Hague Europarlament-Eurojust conference agreed to join forces against such extremists.) In Latvia, too, this organization, with its amazing effort and organisation, actually terrorises Members. This is a very strong pressure both on the government and on the Saeima, and in the course of this draft law, I had to make sure that. What, then, is the story? Ladies and gentlemen, let us not speak in half truth. The story is that Latvia, just like the other European countries that have achieved a ban on the use of wild animals in circus, should set out a clear list and clear criteria for what particular species of wild animals we will allow to use in circus. Just as it is in Belgium, Denmark, Estonia and other European countries. All countries have these lists, and there is no need to mislead the public that drawing up this list is something special. And this list does not have to be dealt with by the Saeima, it does not have to be done by the ministry, under whose direction the working group was unable to come up with one sentence for three years, but when it came up with this sentence, it actually created a legal brother. It has also been indirectly recognised by the Legal Office. If we ban absolutely all animals of wild species, despite being allowed to be used in agriculture, we will also lose the performance of world-renowned illusionists such as Jelena Palčevska and Sergey Stupakov. We're not going to see these performances anymore. Artists will choose not to show them in Latvia, because it would be a violation of the law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) Similarly, all social care institutions and children's homes will no longer be able to obtain free tickets to various such events, nor will they be able to visit these artists. Ladies and gentlemen, we now simply have to decide whether we are joining the list of countries that have listed precisely the species that are allowed. The Ministry of Agriculture has made it clear that there will be no bears, no tigers, no elephants. The Ministry of Agriculture itself makes this list. Either we join the list of these countries, or we - just like Greece - completely ban all animals. The Ministry of Culture has already said that there will be no animals in Riga circus. ( The dismantling of circus stables is already under way.) Or like Germany... We can also join Germany's position, because Germany's quality... is actually an example of the welfare of all animals and with travelling circuses shows an example for the whole world. I call on you to support the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U209	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U210	Stepanenko, you're one cunning Member! Dear name, it's not a compliment. There's a third reading, and I think you didn't stay in the Saeima overnight, do you? You came to the Saeima's feet in the morning, you saw people pickling out. Society demands circus without animals in Latvia. Now some kind of tunnels in some way... Stepanenko, how you got it ready, I don't know, but this is the list... This here's the list that's made... Last week, Julia approached me and said: “Artus, support! Support, please have these animals in the circus!’ And I said to her as a joke: “Yes, but that's your list - your list! - non-golden fish.’ What did you say? You said: “There will be! Let's put it in!' It was a joke. I don't need a golden fish there. The mouse, the rat, the guinea pig, the golden hamster, the Chinese hamster, the sand mouse, the rabbit, the dog, the cat, the frog and the zebra fish are there. Society demands - Latvian society demands! - circus without animals. Will you vote in favour today? I hope that animals will not be used in circus in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U211	Thank you. Name to Member Klim Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U212	Good afternoon, colleagues! However, I will ask you to remember what Mr. Judine said. This vote is not about what animals or pets or some wild animals to be or not on a separate list; it is a question of whether or not to be at all. And before we vote for this proposal, some mystical list that is not yet... And, as we know, during the process of drawing up the lists, these lists tend to “put” different moments, which initially are not intended... But when you vote for it, remember also Section 4 of this law, which determines the cruel treatment of animals. I quote paragraph 10 of this article: ‘... the use of an animal to carry on activities which are not inherent in the natural environment of the animal concerned and which exceed its natural capacity and which are likely to harm and cause suffering to the animal’s health’. In theory, we could ask this animal to do only what he does in nature. We can look at our pet at home without any problems or go to a zoo and see what the elephant does in nature. And then who wants to go to the circus to watch what you can see elsewhere? That's it, in my mind, in duality. And then what will we put on that list what animals? Those with a low pain threshold, cold - skinned animals, snakes, whose only natural properties are toast and strangle? ( Insight: “Yes! I like it!” “The Saeima also has snakes!” ) Well, we haven’t seen a singing snake, have we? So we're gonna stop this double-heavy, but let's decide to be animals in the circus or not! I call for all these proposals to be rejected. And if someone feels that animals are free and happy in the circus, I recommend opening a social network in Youtube and entering it in English “Urgent Treatment of Animals in the circus”. You will see as many videos as you can about how these animals are smashed, knocked, and even tortured with power to submit to the trainer's commands. I don't think your kids should see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U213	Thank you. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U214	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, If that passion and the burning of animal rights were put on the right track, we would already be one of the welfare lands not only in Europe. What makes me so happy? The passionate defence of animal interests instead of the protection of the pensioner would not protect the social interests of people with the same passion and zeal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “Defend also pensioners!” ) When we talk about child rights protection laws, serious amendments, there is no debate at all. I am now returning to these proposals once again. It is easy for me to talk about these proposals: I am not part of a circus fan. The circus without animals, we already have one - I can name the address. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Where?” ) Is there a need for animals or is there no need for animals? All those who are passionately defending animal rights and so on... In that case, I call for serious consideration and support to the Ivars Zarins proposal, for its full acceptance, and for everyone to start with themselves. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rīna: “Not at third reading!” ) I simply have to talk about this: I am not part of the carnivores. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You belong to the SAVE!” ) Before defending something, give up meat foods, leather products and so on! ( Milestones.) Why is this hypocrisy? I fully agree with Mrs. Ribena on the place and role of the Cabinet of Ministers. But we ourselves, Mrs. Ribena, have delegated these rights to them, and the Cabinet has long taken no account of what Parliament decides. For some reason, I have not heard from colleagues in the coalition that the Cabinet has not yet adopted at least 180 MK rules. But these are absolutely other issues. The substance of this proposal on circus is Mercanthylism. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “No, mercy!” And it's not... here shouldn't be talking about or against animals in the circus. Once again, neither I nor my family are members of a circus, just like those of many other events. But there are a whole range of people who visit the circus. And why do we consider ourselves entitled to limit them to this right? I call for these proposals to be supported and for the circus to end, which has already been going on for months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U215	Thank you. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U216	Dear colleagues, I will reply briefly to your criticism of the third reading. Mrs. Reivena, yesterday the Legal Commission supported your group's third-reading amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, which are not at all consistent with the wording of first and second readings. So we're really going to be... Let us not be hypocritical, but let us work, honourable colleagues! And when it comes to the cruelty that so much likes to call on animal defenders. Let us look at the welfare rules for these circus animals. They are not fully developed, but there is a requirement for the training of animals: “Training an animal should not use physical techniques that cause fear and cause conditions that can harm the animal’s mental and physical health.” So all you heard is absolutely a lie! The law already provides for a ban on cruel treatment for the training and training of animals. And finally. Dear colleagues, if we are talking about humanity, I very much expect from those colleagues who are so sensitive to animal rights today, I very much hope that you will be as human as you are now humane to animals in all your remaining votes during this term. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “The fur is not a third-reading issue!” ) We will see how humanely you will respond to tax reform, health reform and other human rights issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U217	Thank you. Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U218	Dear colleagues, I apologise to those who wanted to end the sitting more quickly and go to welcome the President or others. literally one sentence for those who say that there should not be so much discussion about animals. In my opinion, this law and these amendments are not about animals; it is about us, people, about our value system - what value system we belong to and what value system we would like Latvia and our people to belong to in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U219	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the committee's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 47, for - 1. (Applause) The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U220	Yes, colleagues! 2. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported. It is a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop criteria and “a list of animal species that should be allowed to be trained and presented to the public as entertainment animals (including circus)”. I'm on the proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U221	There seems to be no real vote. I'll find out now. But this is certainly to be debated. The floor will be held for Ms Inguna Reibena. But it is not put to the vote...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U222	Colleagues! So that we do not make mistakes in this legal foam, I will just tell you, before every vote, how we have decided twice. In this case, too, we should vote 'no' or not at all.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U223	The debate is closed. But this proposal cannot be voted on in substance, because we rejected the previous one. We shall proceed with proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U224	3, Colleagues, is the proposal from Member Ivars Zarins. He offers to go further - he calls for a ban on raising fur animals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U225	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U226	Hello, colleagues! This proposal is not only about furs, but also about consciences... ( Milestones.) In particular, I prepared this proposal, inspired by my colleagues. In the last two readings of this draft law, I listened to their frightful speeches, in which they called for our younger brothers to be taken care of, ensuring by the law that they are not kept in captivity in crows, tortured conditions, and pointed out that we must show humane treatment of animals, we must go along with time to progress. Then, believing and trusting that all these speeches and your votes have been true and that the goal that you have expressed from this tribunal was what you are talking about here and that these values are important to you about which you are joining and that they are not being done for other purposes (for example, to help release from the Riga circus some desirable real estate located in the center of Riga, which will now be brought in order and repaired as state funds), I have prepared and presented this proposal, which aims to ban the cultivation of fur animals in Latvia from 2023. Compared with circus beasts, the fate and conditions of these animals are even more cruel and inhumane. And they are kept for one purpose, to kill them. Do you know what maintenance conditions are there, let's say, in a trap? 0,4... 0.1... Three otters are kept in one quarter of a square metre. ( Interface: “More! ” ) Know how the otters live in the wild? They live in isolation and spend most of their time in the water. Their life range is several square kilometers. Compare this zero, comma... with one quarter of a square metre! It's millions of times smaller. ( Interface: “It hurts the plants! ” ) The leaves are similar. One fox is kept in a cage less than a square metre. You have seen how hopeless and determined they are forced to stay in their cages and wait for them to be killed? You know how foxes are killed? Analyzing the electrodes. As the fascists did in the concentration camps, the odours are poisoned with gas. This inhumane and cruel industry has already been banned by many European countries, such as Slovenia, Austria, the Netherlands, Croatia and others. We will not be the first to decide to do this. I am truly pleased that we, the Latvian legislators, are ready to take this humanitarian step and get rid of these stone age chains. I now want everyone to hear the argument by which the opponents tried to get this proposal rejected. It was quite peculiar. In modern language it is called alternative facts. Therefore, listen to them so that they do not have to listen again to those who will come and speak. The fact is, there's one. Such a proposal cannot be put to the third reading, as it has not been debated. Mrs. Reyben, this is for you. Sorry, but what have we debated here in all these readings, if not precisely about the need for humane treatment of our smaller brothers? And it is only on the basis of what has been said here in the debate that this proposal has come up with. Do those who now oppose it admit that this has actually been a market for hypocrisy and that no one really thinks so, but only cover with some very different objectives of this debate? Alternative fact number two. This proposal has been put forward to track the adoption of the whole draft law. It's completely absurd! I recommend: learn, please, mathematics and logic. In particular, if this proposal is supported, then the whole draft law will also have the necessary number of votes. Because if you do not want to vote against those who voted as if against these circus beasts, the votes that will support this proposal will suffice. The fact is three. This proposal would result in job losses for the economy or people being deprived of jobs. Colleagues, it will actually be the opposite. You see, this proposal from the opponents would only be justified in that sense, if I proposed that this proposal enter into force immediately - at the time of adoption of the law. In turn, I offer a long enough transition period - 2023. This means that those who have built their business on animal suffering will have the opportunity to return their investments, their investments, and those people who are now working on these farms will have the peaceful opportunity to find another job because... Colleagues, that's what it is? These farms are mainly located in regions. These are about 400-500 people in all regions of Latvia. Together, these are places where there is a catastrophic shortage of labour. These are places where investment in new productive projects cannot be made. You just don't have a workforce. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “Time! All right, we got it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U227	Mr. Zarins, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U228	I'm done. Therefore, my proposal, colleagues, is to support if you really have important compassion and humanism and your principles do not end with just some amount of money. Remember, this vote is not...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U229	Mr. Zarins, it's been 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U230	... for furs, but for consciences. This is the moment of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U231	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U232	I remember that when we worked on this draft law at second reading, Mr Zarins from this troupe made it very clear that, for the third reading, he would put all the hypocrites in the atmosphere and put forward a proposal and then we would see what is... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš from the grass: “That’s it! Let's see!' ) We will certainly see. But I think what is the real purpose of presenting the proposal in question? I'll be honest. If it were a bill, I would definitely support it. This corresponds to what I think and what I think about this issue. But what is the purpose of making such a proposal for the third reading? The aim is very simple. By adopting such a proposal at third reading, the President of Latvia will have reason to refer the draft law back (Dep. I.Zariņš: “Did you listen to the debate?” ), do not sign it. So what do we want, Mr. Zarin? Do we want the story of wild animals to be closed and to have any result, or do we want to do more with this bill? I therefore think that this proposal, which has been tabled, as you rightly pointed out, to the third reading, unfortunately cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U233	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U234	Dear Mr. Judin! All respect for you... But you have just shown a very bright example of duality. ( Interface: “As usual! ”) ) You don’t have to figure out any conspiracy theories. You are in favour of humane treatment of animals, Mr. Zarins, too. But you don't believe him and you're looking for some conspiracy theories there. Is it not so? — Dep. A.Judins: “Play a transcript!” ) that you are doing what is popular? Because, you see, there are people who think about circus, they see... And you just, well, want to increase your popularity, referring to the fact that society wants... and so on. But what happens in those vagaries is not seen by the general public. Do you want to say that in circuses, attitudes and handling of animals are more cruel than in those wilds? Then read the materials prepared by Mr. Zarins! Because what happens there is much worse than what happens in circuses, where there is control, where there is regulation and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “But to the third reading!” ) Not in any case that has been submitted to the third reading should be rejected. And it is not said that the President of Latvia will definitely return to us. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “present the project and work!” ) I think that in this case, if we really have forgotten a situation that is, in fact, much more serious than in circuses, then our mistakes need to be corrected - the sooner, the better. Not waiting for a few more years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “Why didn’t you submit to the second reading?” ) Does it involve any lobbying, that there, in the wild, some money will change and so on? I really don't know. Mrs Āboltiņa spoke very openly from this troupe both today and at the previous sitting. I congratulate you very much. Well, let's talk to the end! If you are in principle, then you must support this proposal. If you choose some cherry from the cake and defend what is popular for you to get political points, then you will vote against it, and we will now see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U235	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U236	Yeah... Colleagues, I'll try to be brief. It must be, however, that Mr Zarins is not the superwarner who, as he said last week from the tribunal, is fighting for roads, for health, that is to say, for an increase in expenditure in the budget for these sectors. But what's he doing? He put forward a proposal that will actually take the money out of the state budget, reducing tax revenues by around EUR 3.2 million. He put forward a proposal which would reduce the number of jobs by about 500. And these 40 farms, these animal farms, will be eliminated in 2023. Yes, maybe that transition period is acceptable, but, Mr. Zarins, what are you offering instead? Then come up with a proposal instead of a proposal to solve the problem in rural areas where there are these jobs, the number of which will fall and are already falling. How are you going to do that? If you put forward such a proposal, I will also support this provision on the closure of this sector.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U237	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U238	Colleagues! Now you have seen bright examples of demagogy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “Oi, Zarin!” ) Very original, Mr. Putra! How long have you been working for the Saeima to recommend to me how I can offer you suggestions on how to build our economy and how to develop jobs in the context of the Animal Protection Act?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Such proposals will exist, and that is what this proposal will also help to do. Because what we are talking about is this business with very low productivity. We create quite a small added value there, and we create in a non-ethical way. What we know and see in our own eyes is that there is a lack of labour in the regions. This would be an opportunity to get the potential for new investment in more productive projects here, because investment does not just come in because there are no people, there is no one who works. Find out what is happening in the regions! Go on. You mentioned the President of State. Total stupidity! Even if he gets back... Excuse me - who makes decisions - are we or the President of Latvia? And if we decide, we have the political will, then we will also adopt this law, even if it is returned. And why is this proposal at third reading in this case? Because you yourself promoted it. That is why the following proposal was also made at second reading. From your own debate. You called for it yourself. And now answer for your words. If, on the other hand, you are afraid to show the general public that you are hypocritical and that in fact you are not interested in everything that you are talking about, then you will immediately demonstrate it. Colleagues, this vote is not about fur, but about consciences, and it will be a moment of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U239	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( Insight: “It’s enough! ”) ) Not applicable. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Zarin's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U240	4. is the proposal from Julia Stepanenko, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U241	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U242	5. - The proposal by Ringold Arnis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission is supported. It clarifies the wording in legal terms and is linked to the European Union's directive on testing animals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U243	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U244	6. is the proposal of Julia Stepanenko, which has not been supported. The version of Stepanenko is about the Cabinet of Ministers drawing up a separate list of animals which can be used as entertainment animals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U245	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate is for Ms Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U246	This proposal, too, in my opinion, cannot be put to the vote. But if we vote, we vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U247	The debate is closed. Mrs Ribena is right: this proposal cannot be put to the vote. I believe that the next vote is not possible either. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena: “That’s it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U248	It is then legally apparent that Proposal No 7 will not be put to the vote either. That is the Commission's proposal, which was already supported by the Commission. Consequently, if there is no vote, the transition to Amendment 8 which could be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U250	8. is the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ringold Arnis, who has been partly supported and included 11. - the proposal from the committee responsible, which relates to proposal 5, which provides legal clarification of the wording in accordance with what was previously said...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U251	Yeah. Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate is for Ms Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U252	This proposal is welcome. We must vote in favour! ( Intersenses, laughter, applause.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U253	The debate is closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U254	No, not to be added. The proposal has been partly supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U255	Yes, but 11 cannot be voted on in substance.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U257	As far as I understand from this draft law, which we have been talking about for a long time, is, in substance, to be voted and, if we do not support it, then the draft law should be returned to the Commission. But I don't want to influence anyone's opinion. This proposal is therefore partly supported. Members shall not object. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U258	No, then we have to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U259	Oh, then... Okey, we are voting on Amendment 8 so that the will of Members is absolutely clear. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 48, against - 4, refrains - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U260	It seems that proposals 9, 10 and 11 should not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U261	Yes, they are not put to the vote. And it does not seem to be possible to vote 12. - Member Zarin's proposal, because it concerns the proposal that we rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U262	12. is the proposal of Member Ivars Zarins, which relates to transitional provisions and concerns the ban on the rearing of fur animals. This is not supported. That means that this proposal is not put to the vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U263	Yes, it is. The procedure? Yeah. Please turn on the microphone of Stepanenko!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U264	The 9th proposal, honourable colleagues, is, in my opinion, put to the vote, because it concerns the entry into force of Rule 27.1. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U265	11. shall apply to Article 27.1. It included...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U266	The opinion of the Legal Bureau is that it is not possible to vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Yes! That's it! The point of view of the neighbourhood is the same - not to be voted!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U267	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all 12 proposals and I call for the vote on the amendments to the Animal Protection Law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U268	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on the protection of animals! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 4, for - 17. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvīds Platopers.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U269	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” was prepared on the basis of the decision of the minutes of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 22 April 2014. The draft law provides for supplementing the law “On the Protection of Cultural Monuments” with the compositions of administrative violations that comply with the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U270	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals. ( Long break.) Time-limit for second reading of the proposals? Please give a deadline on behalf of the Commission. Mr. Platoper! On behalf of the Commission, you should give the deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading. (Laughter) Depp. A.Kamiņš: “Platper, collect!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U271	September 1st.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U272	September 1st. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the General Law, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvīds Platopers. Mr. Platoper, your name is! On behalf of the Commission, you are required to report amendments to the Law on General Affairs at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U273	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on airbones’. The aim of the draft law is to ensure adequate protection of the coat of arms of public persons by providing for administrative responsibility for the violation of the regulations on the use of coat of arms and attributes with the state coat of arms and for non-compliance with the procedure laid down in the Law on General Organs regarding the registration of the coat of arms of local government and public persons, as well as for the manufacture, distribution or use of attributes not approved in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on General Organs within the framework of economic activity. I call for the vote and support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U274	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Ģerbonis! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U275	September 1st.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U276	September 1st. Members shall not object. Draft law “Amendments to Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale Landings Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvīds Platopers.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U277	In order to ensure the implementation of the system of codification of administrative violations of sectors, it is necessary to supplement the law on coats of arms of Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale with the norms, which provides for administrative responsibility for the illegal use of coats of arms of cultural and historical areas, non-respect for the coat of arms of Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale, as well as to determine the competent authority subject to the imposition of a penalty. These amendments will replace the relevant norms of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. I therefore call for the vote and support of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U278	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale German Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U279	September 1st.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U280	September 1st. Members shall not object. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of a Public Person”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U281	Hello, dear colleagues! Before the first reading, the National Administration and Local Government Commission has examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of Public Persons” submitted by the Parliament’s Social and Labour Affairs Commission. The draft law provides for the possibility for a public person to transfer the property for use in unpaid use to a public social enterprise. This draft law is necessary to bring the norms into line with the draft law on social enterprise. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U282	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of Public Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U283	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 15 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U284	August 15th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the Saeima, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U285	Hello, dear colleagues! The National Administration and Municipal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” before the second reading. No proposals were received. Request to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U286	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U287	Please submit your proposals for third reading by 20 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U288	June 20th?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U289	Yeah, June.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U290	By June 20th. Members shall not object. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Documents for Persons”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U291	Dear colleagues, this draft law is related to the above. When examining the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Documents for Persons” at second reading, the Commission has supported one proposal of the National Administration and Municipal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U292	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U293	Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U294	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U295	And please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U296	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Act on Documents for Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U297	Please submit your proposals for third reading by 20 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U298	June 20th. Members shall not object. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U299	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission received 17 proposals for a second reading. Most of the proposals submitted have been drafted by the working group and these are proposals from the Commission. The working group was composed of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor General's Office, the Security Police, the Ombudsman's Office and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. So the proposals. 1. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U300	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U301	2. - the proposal of Ombudsman Jur Janson. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U302	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U303	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U304	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U305	4. - The proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U306	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U307	5. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U308	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U309	6. - Julia Stepanenko's proposal, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U310	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U311	7. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U312	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U313	8 / 8 - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U314	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U315	9. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U316	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U317	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Julia Stepanenko's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U318	This cannot be voted because we supported Article 9, which excludes Article 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U319	11. - the proposal by Member Sergey Dolgopolova, which has been partly supported and included in the 12th report. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U320	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U321	12. - The proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U322	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U323	13. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U324	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U325	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U326	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U327	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U328	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U329	16. - Sergey Dolgopolov's proposal. Partially supported and included 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U330	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U331	And 17. - The proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U332	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U333	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U334	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” (No. 563/Lp12) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U335	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 29 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U336	June 29th. Members shall not object. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on General Education. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ilze Viņķelė.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U337	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to recognise, above all, the draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U338	Under the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote on urgency. Mr. Debtor wants to talk about urgency? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 30, for - 9. The draft law is not declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U339	Yeah, thank you. I would then ask you to look at the first reading without recognition of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U340	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U341	Hello, dear colleagues! I understand that here, when you speak, you always see some intrigues and some kind of interest representation... I will immediately declare that when I speak here, I represent at least 50 secondary schools - in regions and cities! - interests, because I strongly disagree with what the draft law says: that children are worse teachers, worse learning conditions when they study in rural schools. That does not necessarily mean that! I know very many small schools - so-called small schools! - which is full enough, where teachers work much more qualitatively; secondary education is better than that provided by the nearby gymnasium; where children are more capable, where they win much more in the Olympics, is more versatile. Why is that? Because the teacher can devote much more time to each child, much more special attention. On the material base. Yes, there is probably a very different material base for schools, but why is that? Only because the Ministry of Education and Science has for years not developed a common policy to determine the technical means by which the learning process should be provided by teaching the subject, specific skills and competences. Therefore, it is for each parish, district, within the financial possibilities of each city, within the limits of the slippage of Structural Funds projects - the school of which will receive a material technical basis. And another thing I definitely want to talk about here is the question: what are we leaving in terms of decisions of the Saeima, and what are we leaving in terms of decisions of the Cabinet? We had a very interesting meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) yesterday, where, of course, Members of the Saeima were able, within the limits of their competence, to develop their decision-making - or to support the allocation of EUR 11 to one school or EUR 25 to another from the balances left in the budget in the previous year. I think it's such a very "valueful" way... The possibility of using the time and resources of members of the Saeima. Because what question should we be talking about here on the substance? The country's education policy. We should hear the general view of the Cabinet of Ministers, rather than giving the Cabinet of Ministers the tasks in a fragmentary way: “Develop the rules and act as you want to!” So in the country, too, we are going to be completely purge and treacherous, every time we jump from one ditch to the other. Now is the quick decision - to set the minimum number of pupils in classes. Where were you before you decided to equip science offices, to renovate schools? After that, it is so easy to close it all and eliminate it! And again - talking about these secondary schools in regions and cities. If these secondary schools take out secondary schools, their school will have to be kept as primary school. It will not be much cheaper: it will also be paid for heating, maintenance and cleaning of the building. But the region will lose money because it will have to give money to a student who goes to the nearest center of the district. From this we will not make education more qualitative in either the centre of the district or - of course - in the district. I very much call for these amendments to be rejected at the moment in substance and indeed for the Cabinet of Ministers to come to the Saeima at the level of documents that the Saeima must come to, so that Members can judge here on education policy as a whole, not on a fragmentary basis: at which point the class should be closed, at which point the teacher should increase his salary or not increase his salary or at which point the school year should start or close. Let's ask the Cabinet to do the work in essence! And what else is important. We were once promised that this Cabinet would work as a team. This means that education policy in the regions must also be seen in the context of all regional development. But what does the central authority do? It removes resources in the regions at all costs, at all costs, those jobs that could be located in the regions are taken out of there and brought closer to Riga, which has already spread. And I would like to say that, in my view, the education that is being developed in Perry, where there are very large classes, does not contribute to the fact that these children will be very comprehensive and educated. Once again, I call for this draft law to be rejected in substance.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U342	Thank you. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U343	Hello, colleagues! I will perhaps talk less about the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers, which could be the case, I will talk about the substance that is included in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. And I guess it's the salt of the debate that Mrs Silver has just spoken about. Even if we decide to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to develop these conditions, which have already been developed in 2015 (and in essence have already been supported), then these rules are not really correct and appropriate. These rules were addressed to me by Dace Reinika, who is our former colleague, a representative of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, and who is the Chair of the Council of the District Council of Tērvete. She outlined the problem that one year really cannot complete grade 10 and meet these criteria, while next year the number of students in grade 9 is twice as high. Thus, when one 10th grade falls, this criterion may not be met in the three-year period by secondary school - the only one in Tērvete, in the High Hill! - actually can no longer exist. Yesterday evening, I was talked about the same subject by a colleague who was already connected with another group, a representative of the Unity (he has not been our colleague yet), namely Guntis Libeks, Chairman of Jaunjelgava City Council, who also said that in no case should we accept these amendments, this delegation, because the fight that they have begun in the Constitutional Court needs to be fought. I said that maybe we can do without the Constitutional Court, most importantly - to achieve these amendments in accordance with the correct understanding of the objectives to be achieved in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. So that this discussion remained open, and I also understood that Mrs Viņķele, as well as the colleagues in the Cooperation Council with which we were speaking, considered that these exceptional cases should be identified. In this respect, however, I would like to read to my colleagues a letter which Guntis Libeks, the President of Jaunjelgava City Council, has already mentioned, has sent to all Members of the Saeima. I would like to emphasise once again that he has been elected (and quite firmly elected) from the List of Unity to the Jaunjelgava District Council. So his letter. ‘ Hello! The Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima has prepared amendments to the Law on General Education.’ ( Milestones.) That's okay, let everyone else know! ‘ The objective is to provide quality education on the basis of the guidelines for education development, which refers as one of the objectives to the organisation of the institutional network of educational institutions, which can be seen in the context of the provision of quality education services and the efficient use of resources. The guidelines state that general secondary education (Class 10-12), in the long term, would focus mainly on cities of regional importance and local centres. The amendments will potentially affect more than 50 secondary cities and parishes. In particular, they will have a devastating effect on the regions of Selea. Jaunjelgava, where the Secondary School of Jaunjelgava is located, is the centre of the municipality. Jaunjelgava Secondary School is the only secondary school in the region. In case the high school class Jaunjelgava secondary school is not open, the pupils of Jaunjelgava have a former district center - Aizkraukle. ‘ In 2016, the evaluation of the peer-to-peer qualification of schools in 2016 on the results of pupils in the national centralized exams in Latvian, mathematics, English, science, biology, chemistry, physics, history: Jaunjelgava Secondary School takes 22th place from 195 schools. Aizkraukle Municipality Gymnasium took 40th place in the number of gymnasiums in 2016. Aizkraukle 1st Middle School - 105th place in the number of secondary schools. In 2016, the municipality took 12th place in terms of the results of the central exams in comparison with Jaunjelgavas novads. Aizkraukle municipality - 78th place. Youths of secondary age living in Jaunjelgava may be forced to go to a lower education school or some more distant secondary school. This indicates that these amendments do not meet the objectives of the education development guidelines for 2014-2020 concerning the provision of quality secondary education services. In the specific regional context, they are opposed to the provision of quality education services to the population of Jaunjelgava. I hope that every colleague will be introduced to the rest of the letter. Indeed, before we approve this delegation at final reading, the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers provide for such exceptional cases so that the only secondary schools in the county centres can exist and local authorities have the opportunity to provide funding for teachers in these under-classes which do not comply with these rules at their own expense, thus protecting these schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U344	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U345	Hello! The minimum number of students in class or group of classes in general education institutions (in secondary education or in classes 10, 11 and 12), in my opinion, is the responsibility and competence of the municipality, not the competence of the ministry (in Riga, Vāļņu iela 2). Remember, there is more in the counties than there is only a school! School - it's also the center of public life. School - sometimes it is also a library, a cultural centre, a contact point for parents of pupils, where they gather, because they live in different villages, houses, separate homes away from the centre of the municipality. And so it is very important that such a centre stays. I think that only the municipality itself is best placed to understand the circumstances that have arisen in the area in question. The existence of the school in the district also depends very much on the region's viability. I know various school parents who link their future life in Latvia and decide on possible emigration with whether or not they stay in the school in their region. If we liquidate school... But the future of the school depends to a large extent on whether or not this class will be created. The maintenance of the school depends on whether people stay in the district or walk away. And they will not go to the capital, but, as fellow Members have already warned here, they will leave the country. Therefore, in our circumstances, in Latvian circumstances, it is very important to assess all the circumstances, all the conditions before deciding in the capital to eliminate a particular class, a particular school. I am deeply convinced that such a matter must be dealt with directly in the municipality, and I think any other solution could be wrong. I think that was also clear in the ministry very recently. Ten years ago, no one doubted that this decision had to be taken by the municipality. I think something has changed, but in the wrong direction. In any case, I think it is necessary to analyse the conditions in the regions and cities of Latvia before taking a very specific decision. That is why I voted for this proposal from the Ministry to be dealt with in two readings - second and third as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U346	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U347	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank those Members who voted against this matter as a matter of urgency. Because it really is an issue that can affect many people's lives. These people are still at school and decide where their educational institution will be. I think that we cannot decide so lightly, in such urgency - within two weeks - to do so. Indeed, thank you again. I agree with what the draft law emphasises: the quality of education is very important. Perhaps we should also agree that in municipalities that hold on to the preservation of certain schools, although there are only a few students left, these schools should indeed be closed. However, it is not always such an arithmetic, simplified calculation that, for example, 10 children in a class are sufficient and nine are too few, is the best decision in a particular municipality. We also heard in the Commission, when discussing this issue, that, in essence, this draft law, although it is said that it is necessary for children, is more necessary for the ministry. Both in order to promote the optimisation of these schools, and because you are probably already aware of the question on the Jaunjelgava school submitted to many of you in the Constitutional Court, the procedure that regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been issued, so to say, ahead of the respective delegation to the law. I would remind you that schools have received large investments in recent years from both the European Structural Funds and the local government budget, and municipalities have tried to ensure the logistical basis and quality in schools. Especially, as has already been mentioned, in the only school in the district. There are two schools in my home municipality, Dagda, both of which ensure that this logistical base is provided at a high level. In my home school, a gym will be opened in the next few days. The question is, if so drastic now, during the summer, suddenly changes the rules, then who in this gym after the sport? ( The box “You! ”) ) Prior to that, the Union of Greens/Farmers pointed out, for example, that we should trust local authorities in relation to the press, because this is the role of the local government and that the local government must decide how much and what information is to be provided to citizens. Here, too, we must trust the municipalities. If we trust in one issue, then similarly in this, let the local authorities decide. Of course, we can set a minimum number of students, but it must be critically minimal. I don't know, three, four, five. That's not enough. ( Interface: “One! ”) ) Is there one? Maybe one too. Yeah, it's probably not enough one. But ten and nine, as I said... I myself studied in a class where there were no 10 students. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis intersacion.) Yeah, thank you. Thank you to Mrs. Viņķele for the criticism that she has studied in a smaller class. ( The box “Look at what you’ve become! ”) ) Well, here we go! I would also like to say that we put all the questions to the Cabinet too often. First, we wanted to put to the Cabinet the question of establishing an animal list - which should be allowed, which should not be allowed to train in the circus, as well as many other issues. That is the case here, too. This draft law provides that the Cabinet of Ministers will draw up regulations of the Cabinet by 1 August. In particular, on 22 June we would go on intersessional break and authorise the Cabinet to work. It seems to me that the idea has already been expressed here in the Saeima that we can meet as well for one Saeima sitting immediately after the Saeima elections, elect the Cabinet of Ministers, delegate all functions to the Cabinet of Ministers and for four years deal with some other valuable things with other works. We cannot delegate everything to the Cabinet of Ministers! As I said, this is an important issue that needs to be discussed here. Moreover, this draft law provides that the Cabinet of Ministers shall provide for a transitional period within one year in these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. In the Commission, however, it has already been debated that it is too short that one year - it is too little - takes at least two years, and perhaps - perhaps! - at second reading, this proposal could appear. However, there is another such remark that this transitional period would work only in the districts defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers would determine in which regions this transitional period is operating, in which - it is not working. I think that is not fair. Well, I must remind you, too, of the same budgetary process: then, with some amounts, one municipality was supported, but other municipalities were not supported. I... Yes, also as a representative of the opposition, I cannot entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with drawing up a list of the following regions: where this transitional period will work and where it will not work. Mr. Debtor has already mentioned and almost read all the letter received from Jaunjelgava. I will read those letters myself, the end, because the Master of the Debtor was unable to read. ( Interface: “Start from the beginning! ” ) “The forced closure of secondary schools will facilitate the migration and emigration of citizens from national, regional and rural backgrounds and depopulation. Please do not allow this amendment to be adopted.’ I call for this draft law not to be supported at first reading and for it to come back, perhaps in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U348	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U349	Dear colleagues, It is clear that it is necessary to establish a minimum number of pupils in secondary schools, and these amendments are welcome today. But there are problems with the prepared regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers; there are already several problems marked by the Master of the Debtor, but these problems are much broader. For example, it is not very clear why it was once established that the number of pupils should be as large as the number of pupils in Marupe secondary school or Ķekava secondary school, which are small schools, but 18 pupils. There is no explanation for this problem: if one year school grade 10 is not open, then it is really difficult to collect this minimum number in the future if one year is missed. And the problem should also be eliminated that one year is not counted if even this one... if this class is not opened in one year... It is simply not taken into account in these calculations if you want to open new classes in the future. There are several other nuances that must be eliminated in these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. I therefore call on us today to support these amendments to the General Education Act and then to amend the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers at the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U350	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U351	Colleagues! It's a little sad that we don't see the three pines behind the forest. Well, you can't see! And we don't remember what we have commissioned ourselves to the Cabinet of Ministers... In particular, the Commission for Sustainable Development had prepared the task for the Cabinet of Ministers. Mr. Kučinski led this commission. The task of the Saeima was to prepare an optimal network of schools, including children's leaving opportunities, out-of-school training opportunities and bearing in mind a chart of schools to ensure quality education for children anywhere in Latvia. The arguments that municipalities know better... Colleagues, if we relied on the argument that local governments know better, we would live in a small, contentious and selfish state, where there are classes in which... Our colleague here, from this platform, with all reason, can say that five children in a class in the 21st century could go cleanly through... ( Interface: “Why can’t you? ” ) By the way, the existing regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers lay down a minimum threshold of 10 children in class. Otherwise, there may be seven and six, and everyone will have one particular situation, and everyone will have - a sister, brother, relative, cousin or someone else - who will lead that school, will write a tearful letter to the Saeima, and we will be ready to give the whole country and hold children as hostages at their future expense on one occasion. Colleagues, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading and not to depart from what we ourselves, the Saeima, have commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers: to get to the school network, which guarantees quality education for children. And that also means certain school sizes, including high school sizes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U352	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Vectyran.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U353	Dear colleagues, It is a great honour for me today, because several Members have mentioned Jaunjelgava, my home town, and my school, the Newjelgava Secondary School, which I have completed, in which I have studied from grades 1 to 11. Thank you, colleagues. Indeed, I have to talk about my school and talk with great joy and satisfaction. This school is one of the 13 schools carrying out national defence training. It is a school in which there has been a Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and has assessed the work of the school, looked at its infrastructure that meets all the requirements so that we can train young people as well as teach protection lessons. Very good is the sports base. Every year, Latvian youth basketball team has been selected for at least 25 years... 30 years - 30 years - 30 years! - use the sports complex of Jaunjelgava Secondary School during the summer. It is very good, and we keep taking care of it. Here Members have already mentioned, and I do not refer to what they have already said... Jaunjelgava Secondary School is one of the best. It's provinces, rural, school. Yeah, in the center of the district. The educational guidelines stipulated that secondary school should be available in the cities and towns of the region. This was the case in 2014, when the guidelines on education were issued. They were approved by the Saeima in 2014. There was no name mentioned for the minimum or maximum number. It was said that these schools should be developed. In 2015, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers came out, which actually set the minimum, and very quickly started to restrict schools. To be honest, this, as if optimisation, is actually the liquidation of schools. I must say a great deal of thanks to you, Members, that you have understood this matter and that we have not launched this draft law as a matter of urgency, and that we have the opportunity to discuss it thoroughly and indeed to put it in a position to live, study and work there - in our countryside, in our province - our children, our children and a successful society that would strengthen our country, our people. Thank you. Please reject these corrections.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U354	Thank you. Member's name is Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U355	Dear Members, It is not about the number of pupils, it is about the future of children. I want to remind you that 25 percent of high school graduates are unemployed. Young people leave high school without a qualification. The question is, what is their future if they don't go to university? What are they going to do then? I ask for support for this draft law, and if any changes are needed, let us do it! But the bill must be supported and it must go ahead. And for those who are talking about one year, I would like to remind you that the Cabinet of Ministers regulations do not have a number for one year, but have a number for three years. ( The intermediate saying: “But there is one in the law! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U356	Thank you. Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U357	Mrs. Strautums! In the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, the transitional period is three years, but here in the draft law is one year. So there's already an inconsistency here. Secondly. You mentioned the fact that 25 percent of high school graduates are unemployed. But we have to look at where they're leaving that school! Perhaps it is the graduate of that rural school who has found a job. I have to look more wide! We can’t just say: “25 percent is the problem! Now we're closing those schools that don't have 10 students!” One more question. We often talk about the interests of these students and the quality of education. A teacher working at both primary and secondary school can receive better pay. As a result, these students receive better quality education both in primary and secondary education and in the same building. If we now close high school in that building, then only primary school and teacher receive a correspondingly lower salary, and it is more difficult for the director of that school to attract good educators. Here, I think it has been mentioned, but I would remind you that many of these small schools, which currently do not formally meet this criterion - 10 students in class - have a higher rating, for example, in the assessment of the Friendly Call, than many of those so-called your big schools, which have large classes and where the teacher cannot attract individual attention. I agree with the fact that we must make a reasonable effort to optimise schools, but we cannot base this on just one criterion proposed in this draft law. We're... Mrs. Viņķele also mentioned the need to see if this public transport is there... Or how far it is... and take into account other criteria, after all - also that rating in the “Red Call” rating. We can't say now: 10 students are - high school is if there are nine - no high school! I call once again for my rejection.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U358	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U359	Yeah, thank you. I am surprised, to be honest, by Mrs Straujuma's argument: if secondary graduates have no work, then training should be limited to primary education programmes (as far as I understood her logic). If we go this way, then we will also be forced to the wall with the need to reduce those schools to primary school... I think that, however, this is not the right way to go. Secondary education is a norm of the European Union, not an exception to the rules. And if there are no jobs, then the jobs must be created, and that is the responsibility of the government. ( Interface: “Workplaces are created by entrepreneurs, not by the state! ” ) We are constantly talking about this in all sittings of the Saeima, in all commissions. I think that, however, this is a path, the importance of which is also well understood by the existing Prime Minister. But if we are talking about education, it should be said that, however, our goal, I understand, is to strengthen vocational education in Latvia. And that's right! But this does not mean that secondary education becomes a teen bonus, who would like to learn further. No, no! This is the norm for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U360	Thank you. Member Juris Vectyran, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U361	Dear colleagues, The application of Jaunjelgava City Council for examination has been submitted to the Constitutional Court. Why should we rush and adopt these amendments today if the Constitutional Court decides how appropriate and necessary they are at this moment? I think we need to give the highest court power to decide and watch. If we are talking about the graduates mentioned by Mrs Laimdota Straujuma, how many university graduates are unemployed? We can't compare it. I think we should not have such unverified facts. We need to... We do not deny the need for improvement. Education needs to be developed, it needs to be supported. But we can't go so fast, we can now see what's going on. This is also the case in a number of other areas. In the area of education, we must not allow this because it is clear and clear: there is an invasion of rural schools, against schools in our province. That's not right, guys! I call on everyone to reject these amendments. Let us wait for the judgment of the Constitutional Court, then let us look at and decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U362	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U363	Honourable Members! We live, unfortunately, in capitalism, where there is a word such as "competition". Clearly, school cannot be a social rehabilitation institution in this respect. It has other schools. And there is only one objective criterion - central exam results. This was already mentioned at Jaunjelgava Secondary School. I can say one more example. In Bauska municipality there is a village of Victora, and high school, located at the Victorium, shows much better results in central examinations than in Bauska schools. I therefore call, however, for support at first reading. But the commission should obviously incorporate into the next reading the main basic work that promotes competition... This should be something that does not close the school with higher central exam results if these results are lower in the nearest schools or district schools. How do I put it in? So that's the idea. If, for example, there are 10 children but there are eight or nine and there are higher results, it is obvious that such schools should be abandoned. There's not many of them. If we are talking about 50 schools, perhaps there are five or six schools. In terms of competition and quality of education, it would be a mistake to close schools with excellent results and a small number of pupils. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U364	Thank you. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U365	Good afternoon, colleagues! For ten years I have been a director of a large school, which currently has half as many children as in 2001. The number has dropped from 1,000 to 500. And nowhere will we escape, no matter how beautiful we speak, from this demographic situation, when the number of children in the countryside has fallen. I would like to say that these amendments are not aimed at rural secondary schools. If the head of the municipality and the school’s management take care of quality, they will find a way to attract young people to this high school. I would like to say that the position of the Ministry is now that children must learn as close as possible to their place of residence at primary school and that secondary school should be of high quality. Believe me, I can say from the practical experience of life: if there are five or eight children in high school class, they don't know how to play basketball, football in sports... There are sometimes no necessary musical instruments, where there are still laboratories of physics, chemistry and mathematics equipped with the European funds mentioned here. And if these nearly adult young people cannot go 15-20 km and learn the appropriate quality in modern classes and laboratories, what quality are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I therefore have a request to support these amendments. And there's enough time. Either the municipalities in which these secondary schools are located need to attract pupils and ensure adequate quality, either really then they need to ensure that these pupils are studying in the next secondary schools where their quality is. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U366	Thank you. The name of the Member, John Crag.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U367	Dear colleagues, Here so many beautiful, correct, wise words have been said that I don’t even know who to believe here. And I wouldn't have come to talk if I didn't come, so to speak, a little Aldis Adamovich. There is such a small school in Līvānu minority district - Rudzāti secondary school. In the ranking of rural secondary schools this secondary school is regularly in the first three. And there are no public relations professionals, actors, journalists and other people who, when they leave school, find it hard to find a job and who are the people who Mrs Laimdotas talked about - the unemployed. There's physics, chemistry, mathematics - and very good learning! But I will not hide it: it is, of course, very difficult to complete this school with the necessary number of students. Mr Adamovich, I understand that if the Rudzati high school is closed, then of course all these children who are still there will go to Preiļi to study. But unfortunately, in Preoli, as you know, the level is lower. And the story is about it! I therefore believe that local authorities are better aware of what is happening on the ground. Not a ministry. And Mrs. Laimdotas, I liked your example that 50 percent of high school graduates are unemployed. Mr. Vectyran said that I already gave him that idea: 70 percent of university graduates are unemployed. And when Members of the Saeima end their membership (Dep. L. Cigan: “70 percent?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are these stupid things? What is it about statistics?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “), almost all of them, Mrs. Chigan, become unemployed, deducting those who are pensioners. Yes, there are so many examples: when a member of the Saeima is no longer a Member, he is able to be unemployed for a long time. The same applies to some ministers who find it very difficult to find a place in their lives afterwards. So we should not say examples that are pointless! The story is that people simply don't have where to work, and we are unfortunately unable to create jobs with our decisions. And look at yourself -- are you creating a job, or do you even know what that means? I therefore call for no support, and there is no need for urgency here. And let this Constitutional Court take place, and then we will see... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And those colleagues who vote there from the ZZS: well, think a little about the place where you put the hat in your head! Some know what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U368	Thank you. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U369	Dear colleagues, It is really very difficult to talk about education reform and quality if we are doing everything in a campaign-like way. On the question of what we have in the education system as a whole, I heard from Minister Šadurska the radio that it would be good if we started to teach children from six years of age. It sounded like a radio! The Saeima Commission does not even want to hear about this, of course, because they want to leave school from the age of seven. And how many years should we learn? Mr. Shadursky says on the radio to the entire republic: “It would be good if for 14 years... “ [Inserts] “Yes, instead of 14 years, it would be good if it were 13” The National Centre for Education, led by Catlaka, is currently working on the reform of subjects... so-called new content. And now I have one question: that is, that from seven years, but will decide that we will learn from six years? The Minister said it would be. So the kindergarten will start from four years? There are many questions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Boķis: “On the topic!” ) It is painful for me to hear that we have a public service of quality education in the ministry - that is what I am talking about! - quality service, but we say that teachers in small schools, secondary schools, work at a very low level and do not prepare students, and we have secondary schools that have completed school without qualifications and other things... I have a question: What has the Ministry of Education and Science been doing for 27 years?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why is the question today that there are worse results in a school with eight children? We eliminated the training of teachers, an institute that cared for the quality, qualifications and mastery of teachers in their work with children. We're absolutely not worried about it. I'm two years old... Mrs Strautums, I told you that teachers in my sector have been poorly prepared, because training plans have been reduced by 40 percent. No one's worried! And the same thing happens - I'll tell you! - other subjects, too. The Ministry of Evija Papule, the director of the department, cannot answer me personally; we cannot tell you how many teachers we lack in schools and in what subjects. When I asked, “Who is responsible for mathematics and physics?” - She couldn't tell me she was the director of the department. First of all, I beg you very much in my commission: we should not start eliminating school campaigns, because not all schools are bad and not all schools are children everywhere... but we have to teach those kids so that, finally, at high school, they start thinking... in order to develop your own neighbourhood with knowledge and skills, your home instead of going to big cities, as you are forced to do with this education system. ( Milestones.) I would like to say once again that we are unfortunately doing everything in a campaign-like manner and are not listening... We do not have a professional approach. We don't listen to professionals. Personally, I have seen that in many countries, such as Germany, Finland (now in leading Europe), universities are entrusted with developing a reform model, a system that functions there, because it is those who are reading lectures, which should be a teacher, not ministerial officials, who have not worked themselves in schools of all ages, and professionals still determine how that teacher should work. If we do not change this system, if we do not change anything (Minimum.) ... Let us end here in a campaign-like manner that we will liquidate this school as a matter of urgency! We already don't have a system! I would like to call once again on them to listen to the speeches of educators who work with children - they will solve that issue! - and reform the Ministry of Education and Science at all levels! If I am not able to respond to three letters of substance by a Minister delegated from Unity, this means that there are two options: either he simply does not understand the substance of the matter, or he simply does not know and knowingly deceives the public with his radio speeches. The same applies to officials of the Ministry of Education and Science, healthy departments and their directors, and all of them...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U370	Talk about the bill, Mr Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U371	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U372	The debate is closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U373	I think that can be described in this way: there is a lack of words. What do you say on behalf of the commission? ‘ Searching for lost time’. We are carrying out such a book today. And another proposal (not on behalf of the Commission): we could put another third picture on top, which says: “Stus quo is our faith.” Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U374	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! To - 38, to - 20, to - 18. Draft law at first reading is not supported... Oh, I'm sorry! 38 against 38. We need to vote again. Please call again! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Now I have a decisive voice!” ) To vote on the draft law on Amendments to the General Education Law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 21, for - 22. The draft law at first reading is not supported. (Applause) The next item is the draft law amending the law on sport, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U375	Dear colleagues, We are looking at the draft law “Amendments to the Sports Law”, which is designed to regularise the current or existing procedure in sports federations, so that sports schools could be full members of sports federations and there would be no longer any questions about their status in federations, as we observed in the case of re-election of the leadership of the Latvian Swimming Federation, when there were many questions about the powers of members. This draft law is in a single package with the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations, which is on the agenda of today's meeting. It has been developed in cooperation with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, the Sub-Commission for Sport of the Saeima, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education and Science. And since at the meeting of the Commission, the chairman of the Council of Latvian Sports Federation and the director of the Sport Department of the Ministry of Education and Science asked to determine... Because these amendments should enter into force before 1 September this year, I must ask on behalf of the Commission to support this draft law and ask for its urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U376	Yes! Dear colleagues, In line with the Rules of Procedure, we must first vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U377	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U378	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals as well as a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U379	The deadline for submitting proposals is one day, so on 16 June. And second reading - Saeima, 22 June, sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U380	So 16 June is the deadline for submitting proposals. And on June 22, the second reading. Members shall not object. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” (No 921/Lp12), first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U381	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” is related to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sport” (this was the previous item on the agenda, which we have just examined). They go into a single package. And therefore, the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government also asks to recognise this draft law as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U382	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” (No 921/Lp12) as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U383	Deadline for the submission of proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U384	First reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U385	Yes! Please vote at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U386	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals as well as a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U387	The deadline for submitting the proposals for second reading is June 16 at 5 p.m. And second reading - Saeima, 22 June, sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U388	Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 16 June. And the second reading, June 22. Members shall not object. Draft law “Amendments to law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U389	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials””. The draft law has been created by the Commission in cooperation with KNAB and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The main aim of the draft law is to improve the current regulatory framework regarding restrictions and prohibitions on the transfer of office to state officials as stipulated in the law. In the Commission, the draft law has been examined and agreed with non-governmental organisations. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U390	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U391	Let us wait until 4 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U392	September 4th. Members agree. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” (No 895/Lp12) until 1 September 2017. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” (No 895/Lp12) until 1 September 2017! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. The next item and the last item on the agenda of today's sitting is the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2017”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U393	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Saeima’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the prepared draft decision of the Saeima on the Saeima’s consent to the reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2017” from the Ministry of the Interior’s budget sub-programme “Citizenship and Migration Affairs Administration” in the amount of 312 156 euros to two sub-programmes of the Ministry of Welfare’s budget. The first of these sub-programmes is the newly created sub-programme, entitled ‘Payments and other support measures for persons with refugee and alternative status’, which has a re-allocation of EUR 230 256. The second sub-programme – “Execution of Central Functions of the Sector” is €81 900. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission supported this draft decision. Please also do this to the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U394	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2017””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, so the agenda has been examined. But there is information about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today at 17.00. Today, one question is answered by Members Silver, May, Platoper, Schiffa and Balodis. This is a question for Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis “On State Policy for Teacher Training and Number Forecasting”. The written responses received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs you that it is not possible to arrive today to give an oral reply due to previous work meetings. In turn, a number of new questions have been received. The question put by Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Pimenovs, Agešins and Ribakovs “On the results of the ZM working group on VAT reduction for certain groups of food products” is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture Janis Dūklavs and is referred to the Minister. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins, Agešins and Ribakovs have submitted a question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the motivation of the Ministry of Economics and the ability to assess the merits of the acquisition of CBG shares in accordance with the interests of the state and society”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U395	Hello, colleagues! As you remember, we asked the Minister for Economics to explain how he thought that it would be possible to implement the purchase of Conexus Baltic Grid shares. The Minister was unable to answer anything meaningful. So now we ask the Prime Minister and once again indicate our concern that all this measure... as it seems, the next “Citadeles” phase is simply at risk - the necessary consultant is attracted, who gives the necessary opinion so that he can then make a deal on the necessary conditions, but then it will turn out that this is not at all advantageous for the state. To address these concerns, we ask the Prime Minister to answer our questions. We very much hope that he will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U396	Thank you. So the question is referred to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. On the other hand, Members of Silver, May, Platoper, Kūtris and Balodis have tabled the question “On Amendments to the Law on Micro-Tax”, which is also addressed to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, and this question is referred to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. And Members Viļums, Melgailis, Kaimiņš, Ruks and Šics have submitted a question to the Minister of Transport Uldis Augums “On the state of regional roads”. This question is referred to the Minister of Transport, Uldis Auglims. Dear colleagues, It's time for registration. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! While the registration results are being collected, the name of the Member Aija Barča - for notification.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U397	I invite the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, all Members, to a meeting of the Commission at 12:45. Let us look at the issue of amendments to the Pension Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U398	Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U399	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the European Affairs Commission will take place today at 2.30 p.m. on our premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U400	Thank you. Name for the statement to Member Janis Vucanas.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U401	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission will meet today at 12.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U402	Thank you. Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U403	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Gaidis Berzins, Walter Dambe, Raivis Dzintars (Interim: “It was! It just went!” ), Rihards Eigims, Andrejs Elksniņš, Nally Kleinbergs, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ingmārs Līdaka, Romanas Mežeckis, Ināra Mūrniece, Sergejs Potapkins, Silvija Šimfas, Jānis Trupovnieks and Igors Zujevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-15-PT12-424-U404	Thank you. Thus, on June 15, 2017, I declare the sitting closed.
