ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-18-PT12-449-U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! The parliamentary sitting of 18 November 2017, dedicated to the 99th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia, was opened.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-18-PT12-449-U2	Name of the holiday address to the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-18-PT12-449-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! 18 November 1918 is the historic day in which our independent state of Latvia was proclaimed 99 years ago. Since then, this day is our destiny, our sign of strength, our celebration! However, the Latvian nation's consciousness and national necessity have not been born in one day. It developed step by step over many years. The names that called for the establishment of the Latvian strife battalions and the establishment of the Latvian Refugee Committees in 1915 became symbolic stops at the end of this journey. The victims of death on the island of Death in 1916. Latgale Latvian Congress in Rezekne and the establishment of the Latvian Interim National Council in Valka in 1917. Our country could be born after World War I because it was the will of the nation, because it was the ability to agree in the name of high goals, because the new colds that had broken into the geopolitical processes of the world were rightly perceived. At that time, Latvia and other new national countries – Lithuania, Estonia, Finland, Poland and Czechoslovakia – marked themselves on the map of Europe. The Baltic States were able to regain their independence again – after 50 years of occupation. We are proud that Latvia, as a European country, built the principles of parliamentaryism and democracy into its foundations from the beginning. These are the cornerstones on which Latvia built its Constitution. We also referred to them in 1990 when we restored the Republic of Latvia. Nor did the restored state appear suddenly or accidentally. In the context of two occupations and World War II, the dream of freedom as a red-white thread hurled from the declaration on the restoration of the state of Latvia, which was adopted by the Central Council of Latvia in 1944. This declaration inspired national partisans to continue their armed resistance to the occupation 10 years after the end of the war. The idea of the free state was cherished and defended by Latvian exiles for 50 years. The desire for freedom of Latvia overcame the thoughts, words and works of the persecuted members of the national resistance movement and dissidents. By the end of the 1980 ’ s, the small threads shook together and waved in the third wave of awakening. The Latvians were about their language and culture. For freedom, independence, for your country in the Western civilisation and European political space. The democratic processes and parliamentaryist traditions played a crucial role in restoring Latvia's independence. Honourable Members! Parliamentaryism and democracy – yes, they are the foundations of Latvia! For this reason, our most important task, too, is to strengthen these foundations and prevent them from being rinsed or crushed. The family and works must be built up by their own authority. The Saeima is a citizen-elected institution. The Saeima has given the highest mandate in our country – more than 900 thousand voters. We need to justify this confidence every day. Parliament must be able to adopt legislative provisions that benefit society as a whole. Colleagues, this is the last of November 18, when we meet in a formal sitting – 12. The Saeima. A year later, Latvia's centenary will be honored in this hall 13. The Saeima. Let us work in such a way that Parliament earns more citizens' trust! The cornerstone and key of political culture is respect. Our own mutual respect and respect for every member of society. Without a basis of mutual respect, policies cannot be sustainable either. We must be able to explain every law in the House of Saeima and every work that government carries out, that it is meant to sail our land, nation, country and people. Ladies and gentlemen! The next year is the Saeima elections. It is good that Latvian voters are becoming more demanding, more politically aware and also more critical. This is reflected in how active the candidates have been rated plus or deleted in recent years. 12. More than 60 percent of the electoral marks were amended in the parliamentary elections. Next year we will wish a parliament that will work in the new century of Latvia. Politicians with greater responsibility should treat promises during the pre-elections, explaining how party political goals will serve the benefit of society as a whole. Political parties must nominate candidates who enjoy the dignity of the voters and are able to perform the duties of leaders of the people in honour. I wish that those Members who will gather for the formal sitting at the Saeima House on November 18 next year create confidence that the future of Latvia's country is in safe hands. That voters in general can be pleased with their choice! Ladies and gentlemen! Businessman Juris Binde, explaining why his company has financially supported films dedicated to the centenary of the country, recently said significant words: “It is our task to keep in mind that Latvian people are not any mourners or poor people, but people with their own culture, who have lost their freedom many times, but, more importantly, have fought again.” Yes, there have always been amazing many people in Latvia with a clear system of values, strong spines, great self-deligion and fatherland love. We regard such people as our leaders, as a spiritual measure, as the salt of the earth. It is a great satisfaction that young people who were born after the restoration of Latvia's independence are free in their thinking, natural gain in the democratic system and their own sense of power. Our new generation of patriotism, which has been felt especially in recent years, inspires all of us! The Latvians have always longed for education. Fathers and mothers have tried to train their children under the most difficult circumstances. That is why our people are aware of their power and have been able to shape their own destiny. We are talking a lot about education today. In the discussions on school reform, we will be big in our spirit and choose the most important quality of education. Latvians have never measured the value of school in kilometres to go to school, but in the knowledge that can be gained at school. It goes without saying that it is at school that young people must grow up in Latvia's statehood and values. Finally, we have agreed on a gradual transition to training in the state language. The Advisory Council on minority education has also expressed its support for this. This work was long overdue. The language issue should have been discussed for the last time in 2012, when three quarters of more than a million voters expressed their clear will in the referendum – there will be only one state language in Latvia. This is no longer a subject for discussion! Unfortunately, we have still not been freed from a bad habit – talking too quickly to move to a foreign language, even if we want to speak Latvian with us. Without maintaining the state language in public contact, we provide a bear service to Gentiles. And who needs bear services today?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have chosen to live in a European, national and democratic country. But how better to understand democracy today – at a time when this name seems to many? When various gratifications, insults, and even hate speech are often disguised as expressions of democracy. Our value system is like the DNA that fathers and mothers put into us and that we pass on to our children. For generations. Democracy is based on its own values, and the task of democracy is also to ensure that the values of our nations are maintained and protected. Our values are Latvians, traditions, respect and self-esteem. Language, culture, nature. Loyalty to the fatherland, a man of the greatest value. Values are the compass that always determines our choice. This compass is artificially trying to damage us, so that we, as a nation, are politically diverted from the course. Until recently, there were no such words as “the troll factory”, “false news”, “the stolen elections”. There is now a conscious need to counter this at European level. Even in highly technologically developed and long-standing Western countries, it is recognised that attempts to influence voters' choices have been made during the pre-elections. Experienced cyber attacks, public disinformation campaigns and support for specific candidates. The United States has experienced this, and European politicians are increasingly speaking about it. There are forces that are trying to weaken and divide Europe. Our response is a strong and united Europe. In Latvia, too, we see that media news sometimes does not come from facts or real events. The reality is created artificially to influence the mood of society and political processes in the country. ‘ Nothing is what it looks like!” This is the slogan of hybrid war. And the security services of the West are increasingly bearing witness to the Kremlin's strategic plans. As a society, we become smarter, and we can already notice the hooks thrown out by our cunning friend and the Kremlin propaganda. We are trying to tell us that everything is bad in Latvia, that we do not teach our own country to manage that Soviet occupations were not there, and are inciting against the NATO forces that are friendly to us in Latvia. It takes bitterness when one of the first ministers of the renewed Latvian state in Russia is the time to disdain the state of Latvia in public, telling how it failed. What is the name of those among us who pour water into the Kremlin Propaganda mill? How to protect the roots of Latvia from informational war poison? That is why it is so important to focus on fundamental values, common sense and the interests of your country. That is why we need to get rid of the remains of counselive thinking. Everyone has the opportunity to act for themselves and also for his own country. Reasoned criticism of negligence or deficiencies is appropriate. Do not wipe under the mist. The perpetrators should be punished. But constructive criticism does not mean regret. We don't have to sit in the kitchen sighing into the country. With infertile eating, we humiliate ourselves and our country. However, we can all be the armed forces of the state of Latvia. Ladies and gentlemen! Here in Europe and even in the 21st century, occupation is a reality. The occupation of Crimea and the military aggression in the east of Ukraine continue. The European Union and the US must continue to maintain a united and strong position with regard to Russia, and sanctions must not be lifted until the Minsk Accord is met. Europe simply cannot afford to fall back in a comfortable business relationship with the Kremlin. Security in our region is not self-evident, and our membership of NATO is its best guarantee. Our commitment is clear – we will protect Latvia! NATO troops from the United States, Canada, Albania, Italy, Poland, Slovenia, Spain and, of course, Latvia visited the Saeima yesterday. So many nations together on our land and for the sake of our security! Mr. President! The Saeima and the government! November 18 is a thrilling moment a year before the national centenary. And the right time to talk about the most important things. The future guarantor of Latvia is families with children. Support for families bringing up three or more children, foster families and guardians will be increased. This work has started well and must continue. There is no doubt that the family is the strongest foundation of society. It is also a question of the country's continuity. While waiting for the centenary of Latvia, we will do all we can to enable every one of our children to live in a family or family environment, not in a orphanage. The children have the remains of the past – today they have no excuse. Another question, which is important for anyone who thinks about the future of Latvia – how to activate such a centrality force, so that those who were forced to leave behind because of pressure on material circumstances or unthinking loans in Latvia would return in an increasing number of countries? To achieve this, we must create the conditions for our entrepreneurs to create more jobs. Socially dangerous phenomena such as envelope wages and negative experiences in communication with public authorities must also be addressed. People are waiting for effective e-government, intolerance to corruption, friendly contacts, especially with the State Revenue Service. People want a sensitive, respectful and mutually supportive society. Looking forward to Latvia's birthday, the Delfi portal has identified 99 reasons why people decide to stay in Latvia. Thank you for these 99 stories! In the future, Latvia must be a state of prosperity and value. A country that takes much more care of people. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I would like to thank you. Any Latvian citizen who has helped our country to expect 99th birthdays to be more beautiful, richer, safer, peoplely better, inspiring! Thank you to all Latvian patriots – Latvians and Gentiles! Thank you to all those who are currently outside Latvia but with Latvia in the heart! Thanks to teachers, doctors, officials, entrepreneurs, farmers, anyone who does his daily work seriously and well. Thanks to the centenarians of Latvia who had the opportunity to greet Rundāle Palace this summer! Thank you to the families who, over the last few years, have been visiting their babies. Thank you to the energetic young people we meet here in the days of the shadows and in the youth families! Thank you to the non-governmental organisations that are ready to work together with the Members of the Saeima and help us to understand different needs. Thank you to the government and to you, honourable Members of the Saeima, for the fact that, despite political conflicts, most often, we have the power to agree on matters of national importance. Thank you to all those who made the name of Latvia worthy of admiration at shows, concert halls, cinemas! Thank you to those who have made Latvia a famous sports power! Thank you very much to the soldiers of the National Armed Forces, the landguards and the young guards! We thank NATO allies for their solidarity and Canada for their leadership in Latvia. Thank you to our partners – in Europe and in the transatlantic space! I believe that by working together in the European Union, we will be able to increase the well-being of Latvian citizens and their faith in the future of Europe. Thank you to everyone who is with Latvia on its birthday! Dear people! Nearby and far! In Latvia and everywhere in the world! Kārlis Slāne once wrote about the establishment of Latvia: “What was the first day of Latvia? Just a word, a breath that warms the air. Those who dreamed about independent Latvia both believed that roses would emerge in this breath.” Yes, the breath of the people in these years has helped to flourish roses and our Latvia. While we will be while we breathe while we want it, while Latvia will exist! Therefore, every person in Latvia who maintains this will is important to us. Because our country, our Fatherland and freedom are important to us. The life of the sun for Latvia! God bless Latvia! (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-18-PT12-449-U4	Thank you. The official sitting of the Saeima of 18 November 2017, dedicated to the 99th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia, is hereby declared closed. I invite everyone to celebrate the celebration together!
