ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! Let's start the Saeima sitting on January 26! Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting initially submitted. The Legal Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft decision “On the appointment of Laura Šņepstas as a judge of a district (city) court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda – oath of the Auditor General (a promise). I call on the Auditor General, Elita Krumina, to take an oath or promise. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U2	I swear to be loyal to the Republic of Latvia, to comply with its laws and to perform their duties honestly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U3	Thank you. We wish you success in your work, determination and much energy! (Applause) Thank you. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Review of the report’. Annual report by the Foreign Minister on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U4	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Your Honorary Saeima Office! Dear Members and honourable Members, Excellency! Just a year ago, speaking to you at the Saeima during the annual foreign policy debate, I said that "2016 from an international and security policy perspective will be a difficult, painful and restless year, as almost daily crises have become an endless whirlwind in the world". And that was the year! Last year seemed to have been a triumphal year for the world’s final preachers, conspiracy, and chaos. Everyone could compete for the most famous title in newsboards. Yes, dissatisfaction and protests against the current state power policy have manifest in many societies in many countries. It is based on the lack of vision and will of policy-makers to respond adequately to the political, economic and social challenges and thus demonstrate in their work that the country's growth is also a social achievement that will improve the daily life and well-being of the next generation. However, Latvia's last year in foreign policy has been successful because we achieved the planned foreign policy objectives of Latvia. Last summer, Latvia became a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). At the NATO Warsaw Summit, we agreed with allies on real action to strengthen NATO's Eastern Flank military. In November, the Central and Eastern European countries and China Summit was held in Riga. These works cannot be imagined without our common understanding and cooperation. They would not be imaginable without understanding the need to strengthen Latvia's economic and security space. Therefore, I would like to thank the President of Latvia, the Saeima, the Prime Minister, all ministries of industry, state and local government institutions, non-governmental organisations, social partners and in particular the Latvian Foreign Service, who last year helped to achieve Latvia's foreign policy challenges. Thank you all for your work. Honourable Members! Also this year the end of the world is not to be expected. Neither is a military attack on Latvia expected, but everyone needs to understand that it is up to us to decide in which country, in what environment – safe or insecure – we will continue to live. In a globalised world, no country is able to stand alone against the challenges of guaranteeing peace and security, the fight against terrorism, migration flows and climate change. We can only achieve this through close cooperation between ourselves. We often hear that Latvia has to sit quietly on the side – like a bunny under the tree, while a terrible wolf walks around. But I would like to remind you that we had already done so before we temporarily lost our country's independence. We can't stand by! Latvian foreign policy and Latvian voice in the world must be heard every day and every step. Latvia must not be weak internally and externally. Although Latvia has many friends and allies who will come to our aid at a difficult time, our country's growth, development and security must be taken care of first of all. Our country's international reputation, competitiveness, prosperity, political culture and maturity are in our hands. Not in Brussels or any other capital, anyone is guilty that we are unable or unwilling to make decisions for the further development of our country. Yes, this year will be a painful and challenging time for Europe and the world. This year in international politics will be full of sharp turns and many vaults. Some will be reminded of the American mountains, some may be Bobsleigh or skeleton tracks. However, I am convinced that we, as a major player in these sports, will be able to meet the challenges. Elections are expected in the Netherlands, France and Germany. Britain will start negotiations on exit from the European Union. There is no indication that the crisis in Syria and the conflict in the east of Ukraine will be raging. Unfortunately, we will also have to face the thinking and actions of some countries, denying every nation's right to choose its own destiny. International tensions in several regions of the world, the huge influx of refugees in the European Union and its borders have not taken place last year. The terrorist threat has grown dramatically. World peace is threatened with modern technological weapons in the hands of irresponsible or weak governments. Foreign policy issues are becoming a means and a pretext for tackling internal policy challenges and exacerbating internal political rhetoric. In 2016, more painful than ever we experienced targeted and controlled blackmail and disinformation campaigns in the virtual environment. The amount of information that is received in everyday life through different media becomes very fragmented and superficial. Half-truths, deliberate misinformation or lies, which are reproduced in global and also domestic social networks and media, are growing. This phenomenon has also become an instrument of internal and external policy. Governments are only beginning to mobilise in the fight against this phenomenon, but civil society involvement is also essential. I would therefore like to say a special thank you today for your active work both for the NATO Centre of Excellence in Strategic Communications and for the Communication Unit of the European Union External Action Service. People who do many things on their own initiative also deserve special thanks. Thanks to internet blogger Janis Polis and other enthusiasts. More recently, they have studied the destructive Internet propaganda force in Latvia's social media on their own initiative. We all understand that effective medicines in the fight against disinformation are an educated society with developed critical thinking. Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia's foreign policy is a foreign policy of cooperation. It sets out Latvia's foreign policy priorities and foreign service tasks in 2017. Firstly, Latvia will continue to strengthen its internal and external security. The strength of our country depends on us. Secondly, our country will contribute in a pragmatic and constructive manner to the consolidation of a united and secure European Union. This will be done on the basis of the Baltic-Nordic cooperation format, which is a strategically important source of Latvia's economic prosperity and security. Thirdly, we will support Latvian companies to help them acquire new export markets and promote foreign investment. And finally, let us support and maintain a close link with our Diaspora. Too often we have taken many things for granted – both NATO and the European Union. It is clear that both organisations have now entered a new development cycle. I would like to reaffirm and emphasise once again that Latvia is a reliable state and partner for its friends and allies. Thanks to the participation of our country in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, we are also committed to defending the common area of values – freedom and democracy of the whole alliance. I am convinced that NATO is not a relic of the past. It is a modern and strong security organisation that is able to respond adequately to all the challenges. Latvia is clearly aware that it is necessary to invest in strengthening its country and collective security, and that is why next year we will devote two per cent of gross domestic product to strengthening our country's defence capabilities. This year the first ally units are expected to come from Canada, Spain, Poland, Slovenia, Italy and Albania. I would like to thank the Canadian Government, which has assumed the responsibilities of the leading state to the Alliance Battle Group in Latvia. Latvia will do everything to ensure the necessary conditions for the reception of allies in our country. I would also like to thank our allies – the Netherlands, Poland, the United States, Germany, Spain and Belgium, who are carrying out this year's air patrol mission here above the Baltic States. I also thank Slovakia for sending the team to take part in long-term military training. The US decision to strengthen its military presence in the Baltic Sea Region serves Latvian, European and transatlantic security interests. Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last 100 years, the fate of Europe and the US has been closely intertwined. At times when we worked together to strengthen and protect our common space of values, it was good for stability and peace on the continent and on the world stage. At times, when we turned our backs on each other, the fee was high for everyone. That is why we and the United States have a strong alliance and close cooperation between the United States and Europe. Our cooperation must continue to be based on shared values, defending the principles and order of international law, as well as close relations between allies. The world must not return to the sphere of influence and to the policies of brutal force. We are ready to work actively with the new US administration and Congress to make NATO even more effective so that we continue to fight terrorism together by agreeing on the necessary strategy and resources. Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! In March this year, we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Rome. This is not the first time that the European Union has to deal with the difficulties. Almost 10 years ago, we faced a deep economic crisis, which is now being followed by political challenges. So far, the European Union has always created opportunities to address the problems in negotiations and compromises. I believe that the leaders of the European Union must send out a clear message to their citizens that the main priorities are security and prosperity. The future of Latvia and Europe should not be weeped and blamed; it should be fought for. There is no need to dream of a federal Europe and raise air castles, but to strengthen what has been achieved in these years. I am convinced that a strong and united union of national states is in the common interest of Latvia and the European Union as a whole. Latvia strongly advocates the need to find a common platform for future work and invites to avoid member states being divided into groups (with the exception of formats which are not in conflict with the principles of the European Union). This applies equally to the ability of the European Union to prevent crises and also to our readiness to face hybrid threats. It is necessary to strengthen efforts to prevent radicalisation of societies and to protect human rights. For these reasons, the Union's capacity in foreign policy needs to be strengthened. The European global strategy adopted last June will play a central role here. Ladies and gentlemen! This year, the United Kingdom will start negotiations on leaving the European Union. This situation slightly resembles the story of Winnie Pooke and his friends: “Christopher Robin walked away. Nobody knew why he was going, no one knew where he was going. However, it was clear to every resident of the Forest that this should finally happen.” Last week, British Prime Minister Teresa Maya marked the UK's position and fundamental principles regarding the conditions for withdrawal. Latvia respects this position, but it is clear that negotiations on the future model of economic relations will be difficult. It is in our interest to build close relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom in the future. They must be based on a balance between the rights and obligations of both parties. The future fate of Latvian citizens in the UK and further cooperation in economic, foreign, security and defence matters are important to us. Latvia highly appreciates the UK's contribution to strengthening security in our region. In the context of both security and the European Union as a whole, cooperation and development between Nordic and Baltic countries is essential for Latvia. We are already seeing practical cooperation in the field of energy, transport and military matters. We will also continue close coordination on European Union issues. I am particularly pleased that the political dialogue with the Benelux and Visegrad countries has strengthened in recent years. Latvia's strategic partner and ally in Europe is Germany, because we are united not only by historical ties, but also by close political and economic dialogue, common interests and views on many issues in the European and regional context. Poland is our ally for security and many European foreign policy issues, we have developed good cooperation in defending our common security interests. We will continue this cooperation this year as well. Honourable Members! The Foreign Service focuses also on practical support to Latvian entrepreneurs in the field of transport and logistics, food industry, information and communication technologies, pharmaceuticals, wood industry, tourism and export of higher education. Latvian entrepreneurs offer quality products and services, and we are proud of it, but we have to understand that we are competing with our neighbours, and therefore we have to work on the best offer. This is particularly true in the transport and logistics sectors. I would like to emphasise that the opening up and acquisition of markets must be based on the specific needs and interests of economic operators, which are clearly defined. Diplomats represent our country outside. But its business and investment environment consists of decisions taken or not taken here, reforms implemented here or not fully implemented. Latvia's competitiveness is possible by doing domestic work. To attract investment, it is essential to actively pursue the necessary reforms in the area of insolvency, improve the justice system, and move forward faster with the development of eGovernment. Similarly, the quality of higher education and innovation capacity have a huge impact. The Foreign Service will do its job, including by working more and more actively on external trade and investment issues. Let us take into account, however, that attracting and retaining investment is influenced not only by geo-policy, but also by these factors. Geographically this year, we will place particular emphasis on traditional markets in the Baltic Sea region, as well as fast growing export markets in North America, China, India, Japan, the Gulf countries and South East Asia. Honourable Members! Latvia has always stood up for a balanced policy of the European Union and its neighbours. At the end of 2017, the next Eastern Partnership Summit will be held in Brussels, where the European Union will reaffirm the role of the Eastern Partnership in the European Union's foreign policy and provide support to countries that have concluded Association Agreements, such as Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. We hope that the short-stay visa waiver will finally be introduced this year for Georgia and Ukraine to enter the Schengen area. We see an opportunity to build constructive relations with our neighbour Belarus, as well as with Armenia and Azerbaijan, on the basis of their defined interests and aspirations and the fundamental principles of the European Union. We stand by and will continue to stand firm on the territorial integrity of the Eastern Partnership countries and the right to choose our own destiny. Ladies and gentlemen! Russia is and will be our neighbour. We will not be able to improve our bilateral relations if Russia acts from a position of power in international politics and violates the principles of international law. This is why we are particularly disappointed by the lack of progress in the implementation of the Minsk Accord, because it does not allow the conflicts that have arisen in the region to be resolved and thus restrict the further development of relations. We believe that it is essential to promote dialogue with Russian civil society as well and to continue to denounce Russian propaganda misdemeanour. Latvia will continue to cooperate with Russia in those areas where mutual interests coincide. We have already completed the demarcation of the border, concluded agreements on cross-border cooperation, and continued cooperation in the area of border and customs. A meeting of the Intergovernmental Commission is also scheduled for this year. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Our skirt is around the world – around 370 thousand Latvian citizens live in more than 120 countries! It is our compatriots who create the first idea of Latvia abroad. That part of the corporation, which is still in contact with Latvia, has been strengthened in many places in the new country of residence. The Latvian Diaspora actively creates and participates in the economic and cultural life of these countries. They are successful entrepreneurs, they work in medicine, agriculture or international institutions, teach in schools and universities, show excellent results in sport and culture. Many of those who have left provide substantial financial support to their loved ones in Latvia. The Latvian Diaspora and its organizations are the strong foundation of Latvia and also the basis of security of our country. Strengthening the link between the state of Latvia and the Diaspora is vital and this link must be constantly supported by the state. I would like to thank our Diaspora and all the organisations of the Latvian Diaspora for their current active work in the world. I call for further joint efforts to defend Latvia's political and economic interests around the world. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Excellency! The centenary of our country – Latvia – is approaching. Regardless of how close or far we are from Latvia today, our national centenary celebrations are unimaginable without us. And we can all give a gift to our country – to do concrete and practical things that contribute to Latvia's economy, competitiveness and global recognition. I invite you to celebrate the centenary of our country in Latvia and the world – to celebrate with works and every day. An independent state – it is a huge privilege, responsibility, and a hard work is needed to preserve and develop it. Many things that seem obvious are no longer. Therefore, our age places particular responsibility for decisions that affect the everyday lives of every individual. It is our every action and decisions, as well as those of international organisations and national politicians, that will determine what kind of world we will live in today, tomorrow and in the years to come. We must all remember this when deciding both internal and external policies. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U5	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let us start a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U6	Name of the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U7	I ask for the opportunity to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U8	Are there any objections to Members if Mrs Mūrniece brings together both times of debate? Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U10	Please! You have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U11	Mr. President, Honourable Members! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr Rinkēvičs, for your comprehensive report. Today, Latvia has a great day. 96 years ago, historical justice triumphed. The international community recognised the existence of the state de iure in Latvia. Our next foreign policy debate will take place already during the centenary of Latvia. New countries do not come because someone asks for it. Countries arise when the people living in them are strong enough to demand and take their statehood. It was a century ago, it is today. The state of Latvia today exists because we are strong enough to protect and build it. Therefore, there is a question of power and power outside the place. We have also achieved a lot in foreign policy. We're back in the Western Value Space. We're strengthened in international institutions. In foreign policy, we have never had the opportunities we have now. However, the world is becoming increasingly unpredictable. Western democratic institutions suffer during geopolitical revanishment and crises. Rapid tactical victories and transactions threaten to change and dictate world order. The challenges are great. Let's be honest – everything can turn very quickly to the bad side as well. How to protect what we have built? Our foreign policy must be further integrated with national internal policies, common development priorities, and decision-makers must work together. That is why we have invited government ministers to the debate today. Thank you for your presence. And I look forward to a specific discussion. Yes, state security and cooperation with NATO partners are at the heart of the foreign policy priorities. Security and economic growth are key issues in the European Union. Support must be given to our entrepreneurs in export markets. Once again I stress: foreign policy goes hand in hand with internal policy, with our homework – laws, budgets, reforms – and, of course, with public support. The society is not the outsider. What is worth defending, we must defend together. There is a need to work hard to strengthen the Euro-Atlantic sense of belonging of our societies. Ladies and gentlemen! Every day we hear about terrorism, cruelty, death – in Istanbul, Berlin, Aleppo. Our neighbour Russia continues to pursue aggressive foreign policy by combining military activities with propaganda, disinformation and other hybrid war methods. How quickly you can lose peace, and how difficult it is to get back, we see it both in Syria and in Ukraine! The only way to stop evil is to be strong. I'm sure we can do that. It is important here to strengthen the security of your country, as well as to support joint efforts to safeguard peace in the world. When it comes to Latvia's security, it should be said that last year was a turning point. The Warsaw Summit has decided on the real military presence of NATO allies in our region. So you can do it! Latvia also supports joint efforts for peace. Latvia takes its commitments in international organisations very seriously, including NATO. Last year, Latvia's defence budget grew by 40 percent, and next year we will reach two percent of gross domestic product. We are now leaders among other NATO countries in this respect. We are engaged in the global coalition against ISIL/ Da' esh, we are investing in strengthening NATO's external border and in the fight against terrorism. We are fulfilling our commitments because we know that solidarity is not an empty sound, independence of Latvia has not fallen from the air. Our allies are in solidarity and keep promises, also to Latvia. A living example is strengthening NATO's presence in our region. We work with Canada, the leading country in the battle group located in Latvia. We thank NATO allies – Canada, Albania, Italy, Poland, Slovenia and Spain for participating in the battle group in Latvia. We will give all necessary support to the host state. This year, in cooperation with Canada, we plan high-level visits, including at parliamentary level. These days too, we received a delegation from the Canadian Parliament in the Saeima. It is in the strategic interest of Europe and Latvia to have close relations with the United States. The US has so far always played an important role in promoting security in Europe. The US has an interest in stability in Europe, the world's most economically developed. We are determined to continue building a strategic partnership with the new US President's Administration. We appreciate the increasingly active relationship with the US Congress, which has very strong support for the security of the Baltic States. We will continue our intensive contacts with the US Congress. What has been built for a long time must not be destroyed. The challenges are too great. And I would like to say today: NATO is a modern alliance. It is capable and will have to be able to respond to security threats. In recent years NATO has invested a great deal of effort in curbing a possible aggressor. That is why we can feel secure in our country today – today we do not have a direct military threat. Effective cooperation between the Baltic States is also a prerequisite for our security. We have been able to mobilise, both in policy coordination and in practical cooperation and learning. At Parliament level, this has strong support. Strengthening security and defence is not only a foreign policy priority but a priority for society as a whole. We can do that! The Earthguard is an example. This is particularly the case for hybrid hazards. We are already living in information war. Russia's foreign policy rhetoric has reached a very high level of aggression. The government's task is to strengthen cyber defence and critical infrastructure protection capabilities. However, the work of politicians and officials alone will not be enough. All societies must go together, all must be able to analyse information more critically in order to decipher attacks against our country and the values of the West. Thank you to the professional media in this regard. The European Union is an important foundation for the well-being and security of Latvia. It is in our interest to have an operational European Union. The main challenge here is to address the insecurity caused by terrorism and migration flows. Perhaps the European Union is not a perfect institution, but it is certainly the best instrument for overcoming the current challenges. Although the UK's departure introduces adjustments, there is no need to question the importance of the European Union. We in Latvia and the Baltic States know better than a number of other Member States who are at stake and who we can lose. Therefore, in Europe, the Baltics are able to give a tone. Latvia is serious about what it has promised. If we do so, then we do, and there is no shortage of good examples of cooperation. For example, the European Union's common border guard has recently begun to work. Cooperation between Latvia and Germany will be strengthened. Germany is an independent country that is always firmly committed to European integration. It will be very important to work with Germany in both the crisis management of the European Union and strengthening bilateral cooperation. I am delighted with the strengthening of cooperation between the Baltic and Nordic countries. We have long been close allies in the Baltic Sea region. And cooperation with the Nordic countries needs to become even more active. Ladies and gentlemen! The Kremlin's hidden war in Ukraine continues. We have managed to be united in response to Russia's aggression against Ukraine. This firm approach must be maintained. The Minsk Accord is now the only solution, and we must do everything we can to support it. The sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine are beyond doubt. Ukraine has done a lot in implementing the necessary reforms and Latvia will continue to support them in practice. We hope that the European Union's visa-free regime with Ukraine and Georgia will no longer be obstacles. The European Union must make maximum efforts to strengthen transatlantic links, including in trade. An important step is the conclusion of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, the so-called CETA. Ratification of this agreement will be one of the points of the Saeima's list of future works. Ladies and gentlemen! Export promotion, investment attraction, support for entrepreneurs – these are and will be important foreign policy tasks. Latvia's participation in the OECD is a major step towards a responsible business environment. In the process of joining Latvia was “under the lupa”, we were very carefully blessed. We adopted a large package of laws. As a Member State, we are now responsible for implementing the OECD recommendations. We must and will need to improve the judicial system, address corruption, tax evasion. A very important step is also the law recently adopted by the Saeima to strengthen the supervision of insolvency administrators. However, there is a great deal of work ahead of us. We must continue to provide targeted support to Latvian entrepreneurs. I am delighted with the growing economic cooperation with China. ‘ At the 16+1 summit and during the visit of the Prime Minister of China in November, a good pace was taken, especially in the field of transport and logistics, by attracting Chinese goods and tourists. This year, we will continue to exchange high-level visits with China. It is important to involve our compatriots abroad – in Ireland, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere in the world to promote economic growth. The celebration of the national centenary will also be an opportunity to show Latvia in the international environment, to raise interest in Latvia also as a safe place for business. The Saeima is also active in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us remember that our foreign policy capacity is supported by voters. Political consensus allows the Saeima and the government to work effectively. I would like to thank both the Saeima Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Saeima Commission for European Affairs and the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention and other commissions, and in particular the Baltic Assembly, for their work. Thank you to the ministers and, in particular, to the ministers who are present at the foreign debate today. Time doesn't wait. We must be prepared to stand up for a strong and united Europe. Be prepared to protect the country of Latvia that was founded in 1918. We are all those who make up Latvia and build its prosperity. Foreign policy goes hand in hand with the priorities that society has and which the Saeima, as the electoral representation, strongly supports. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U12	Thank you. Now Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, the Chairman of the Commission, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U13	Dear President, Dear Ministers, Presidium! Your Excellency! Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! To know what to do in foreign policy in 2017, we need to know at least two things – what we know and what we do not know. We know that there are several crises in the world. We also know what is threatening Latvia's security. This is Russia's aggression in neighbouring countries, international terrorism and the refugee crisis caused by conflicts in southern European neighbours. Latvia's current foreign policy shows that we know what to do in this crisis. We do not know what new changes and surprises are expected in 2017. Among the unknown things is the further development of Brexit, how it will affect the European Union. We do not know how the new US administration will deal with NATO, Russia and China. We do not know where and how international terrorism will take place and how the conflict in Syria will be resolved. And finally – we do not know what political results will come from several elections in the major countries of the European Union, including France, Germany and perhaps even Italy. How can Latvia react in this turbulent, challenging time? When reviewing the course of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2016, it would be only wise and logical to continue the course. Of course, strengthening, complementing and developing existing priorities also in 2017. But the key is to understand clearly the risks, threats, restrictions and opportunities. In my opinion, the Foreign Minister's report does so and Latvia's current foreign policy course is reasonable and correct. In foreign policy, we know very well what we are doing. Latvia's foreign policy is justified in principle by pragmatism. We must defend our values, principles and national interests, but we must do so with our mind and with our understanding of the current international environment. Latvia alone cannot solve these global problems, and it is therefore important for us to do everything to strengthen the European Union, NATO and other international organisations in which we are actively participating. The European Union is important both for our security and for the promotion of external economic relations and trade. And despite the uncertainties created by the British referendum, the European Union's External Action Service has proposed a new global strategy which has been considered, realistic and which highlights the principle of pragmatism as the only sensible approach to tackling international problems. And one of the most important priorities of this new European strategy is closer cooperation between the European Union and NATO. It is in the interests of Europe, it is in the interests of NATO, and it is in the interests of Latvia. The Minister of Foreign Affairs can only agree that we need to significantly strengthen the security and defence capabilities of the European Union. But it is equally important to respect the separation of tasks between NATO and the European Union. It is not appropriate to talk about the creation of a European army until NATO Member States, particularly in Europe, have fulfilled their political promises for NATO development and development. It is to be welcomed that Latvia and Lithuania will reach two per cent of GDP for defence in the near future. We hope that other European countries will follow. At the same time, we can congratulate the decision of the Warsaw Summit on the deployment of four battalions in the Baltic States and Poland. The fact that Canada has taken responsibility for Latvia is particularly welcome because it not only strengthens the transatlantic ties of Canada with Europe, but at the same time opens up new diplomatic opportunities in Latvia's bilateral relations with Canada. Unfortunately, Russia's relations with Europe and the world are becoming more problematic. Before 2014, before the events in Ukraine, Russia was considered a strategic partner of NATO. Today, Russia has become a strategic problem for everyone. Russia's aggressive policy and violations of international law in Ukraine continue with the same intensity. Russia's approach – using military means to achieve its political objectives – threatens not only its neighbours, but has also undermined the security of Europe as a whole. Here, we can only hope for a diplomatic solution, and this can only be achieved if all the countries of the European Union and NATO are united and consistent, including through political means such as sanctions. Latvia should continue to focus on the European Union's Eastern Partnership policy, as well as further cooperation with Central Asian countries, in particular China, Korea and Japan. These Asian countries offer new export markets and investment attraction, as well as expanding the opportunities for our entrepreneurs to strengthen Latvia's economic growth. There are huge opportunities in this region to develop bilaterally beneficial relations, especially for Latvia. The United States has always been one of Latvia's main strategic partners. Over the last 25 years, all US governments have implemented a policy of principle and consistency in support of the Baltic States. Last December representatives of the Saeima Foreign Affairs Commission met US Congress members and leading foreign policy makers in Washington. We have heard convincing and repeated confirmation that the current US policy on NATO and the Baltic States will not change. But to ensure this, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Saeima should be more active in communication with the Washington legislators, foreign policy experts and the administration in 2017. And finally for the Diaspora. We have done a great deal to support the Diaspora, and now is the time when the Diaspora can do even more to support Latvia. This is the moment when our diaspora, especially in America and Canada, can actively and purposefully support Latvia's foreign and security objectives. We know how capable our countrymen are abroad, especially if they are united and organized, promoting Latvia's national interests. We need to work with our allies and compatriots abroad. And we have to stick together here in Latvia, because just like a ship in the sea we travel between the well-known and unknown. We need to keep the current course, because in a time of storm, our own stability is the most important priority. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U14	Thank you. Member Lolita Čigāne on behalf of the Saeima Commission of European Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U15	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear members of the Bureau. Dear colleagues, Mr. President! Ministers! Ambassadors! Diplomats! Yesterday, a delegation of women from non-governmental organisations in Ukraine visited the Saeima, and after our nice conversation was over, the women in Ukraine told us: “You know, you have such a beautiful country and so beautiful people! But the most wonderful thing is that you knew very soon what you wanted.” And indeed! It is so that when, at the beginning of 2014, the Ukrainian people, in winter, were on the island in Euromaidan, fighting for the signing of an association agreement with the European Union, we had had such an association agreement with the European Union for 19 years. Some time ago, our fellow Member, Ilze Viņķele, said that every time she goes out here in the Saeima, she will come and object to this tribunal. I want to promise now that every time – when it has place and time – I will come and thank the previous Latvian politicians, the previous generations of Latvian politicians who knew in such a timely manner what we want, who strengthened in such a timely manner that we want to be in the European Union and NATO. And, in particular, I would like to thank former President Vaira Vike-Freiberga, without whom this will would not have been so concrete, so strict. (Applause) Dear colleagues, In today's world of challenges, the European Union is our strong pillar. And it is very important for us to remember that the European Union is a very important tool for economic development and modernisation. Today, 20 per cent of all the laws adopted by the Saeima are directly related to European Union policies. Unlike what various Eurosceptics may say about the time, these laws are not adopted by some unparalleled Brussels bureaucrats. These laws and regulations shall be adopted by the Member States of the European Union themselves. And we in the Committee on European Affairs know very well how closely our public administration is involved in these laws. Dear colleagues, The European Union is an agreement and a union of mutual respect. There are 22 Member States in the European Union – thus an absolute majority! – with a population of less than 10 million. It is a union of small states. It is a union in which, for the first time, small countries have a real influence on our continent and our interests in times of crisis are not simply being rolled over. At present, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is chaired by Malta, the smallest Member State of the European Union, with only 400 000 inhabitants. In response to what has already been said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, colleagues, I would add that last year the European Affairs Commission has followed very closely the way in which European Union policies are a source of modernisation and development of our policies. Colleagues! More recently, an international assessment of the knowledge of our 15-16 year olds was widely expressed. And the conclusion was that this knowledge is polite, but not excellent. We could say, “Well, nothing! We are going normally!” However, the question is: can we be better off? And we can definitely be better, because our neighbour Estonian students gained first place in all areas of the European Union's assessment – reading, mathematics and science. Are we really ready to accept that Estonian children are wise, but ours are only normal?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, I don't! In the same way, the considerable investments made by the European Union's structural funds in our health infrastructure are encouraging us to rearrange this health infrastructure and to recognise the simple fact that complex manipulations in small rural hospitals cannot be carried out in sufficient quality and endanger the health of our citizens. In the same way, European Union policies encourage and even force us to think about the future of our children – the environment where our children will live. We can rest assuredly say: “Latvia is a very green country. We produce little waste, and we're all right." And some ask: "What is the relationship between foreign policy and waste management?" Again, however, the facts speak their own words: in terms of waste sorting, Latvia is in a very bad situation compared to other countries. However, we will have to learn this sorting through the policies of the European Union, because by 2030 we will have to have 50% of waste sorted. Dear colleagues, We are receiving considerable funds from the European Union to invest in our development. However, we are also giving to the European Union. Together with the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, we were at the European Border and Coast Guard Agency last November and were very pleased that Frontex thanked us very much for Latvia's contribution to the protection of the common border of the European Union. It turns out that we, a small country, are giving a significant share of experts, knowledge and equipment for the work of this agency. Dear colleagues, The European Union urges us to work much more closely with our neighbours. We can remember – during the interwar period, the military and economic union of the Baltic States was a dream of some politicians who never realised, because unfortunately they drowned in some little jealousy or joy for failure. Thanks to the European Union, we are currently building the Baltic infrastructure giant project Rail Baltica, which will allow us to move from Tallinn to the Polish-Lithuanian border in four hours already in 2026. If there were no European Union, then perhaps we would not have been able to implement such a project. Finally, I would like to quote the words of the Foreign Minister this morning: “If we hide in the bush, our allies will not notice us, but our enemies will certainly notice us.” Mr Rinkēvičs, I would like to thank you very much for your excellent cooperation with the European Affairs Commission last year. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U16	Thank you. Member of the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U17	Dear President, Excellency! Members! Foreign affairs – it's nothing to understand. They serve the interests of the state and society – peace, prosperity, growth, everything understood by internal politics. In order to develop foreign policy, we need to be aware of internal policies, we need to be aware of the priorities. In its report, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has explained how it sees this situation, which cannot be denied. However, the Ministry has not given any explanation about what is happening in the world and what is the role of Latvia in this world order. For example, what has Latvia achieved from the European Union, with the exception of structural funds? How has Latvia acted and behaved in the situation of Brexit? These and a number of other issues have not been clarified. It is obvious that national egoism has prevailed in the world. In developing foreign policy, each country of the European Union puts its own internal interests at the forefront. Unfortunately, it does not apply to Latvia: Latvia is carrying out the European Union's set-up on every issue, but has not insisted on compensation for damage caused by helping hand sanctions. As a result, foreign policy has created additional internal threats – increased unemployment and limited development opportunities for entrepreneurs. National egoism led to the British referendum on exit from the EU. Other countries have taken the example of egoism: Poland, Greece, Slovakia, Hungary, Italy, France, the Netherlands, and this egoism has not yet ended and will continue. The main task of the Latvian government today is to be able to analyse what is happening in the world, to be able to reach a consensus in society on how the world order is changing, to learn the public's opinion on the state's progress and to obtain a public mandate through parliament on how to build Latvia's foreign policy. As long as there is no consensus in society, no effective foreign policy is possible. Currently, Latvia is pursuing inefficient foreign policy even in its relations with neighbouring countries – Lithuania and Estonia, not to mention more distant countries. Lithuania has been promising the restoration of railway connections for years, but there is no result. Estonia is “recreating” Latvian entrepreneurs in the meantime, offering competitive conditions for business. We are only contenting our hands with the other two Baltic countries when we are dictated to say together: ‘Ye, sir!’ We have two options: either to remain passive observers as before or to steer our policies in Brussels. In addition to Brexit, whose further progress is almost unknown, another event marked last year is the election of Donald Trump as US president. What do we see today? Today, it looks like Trump will agree with everyone. Even a country as great as the US is aware that one cannot solve problems anywhere except his own country. As can be seen from the examples of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, the military is not enough to address regional problems. Military outside intervention cannot contribute to stable growth and modernisation in the Middle East. Solutions to global challenges such as poverty, various illnesses and climate change can be found as a result of different public-private partnerships rather than through military forces or only through diplomatic agreements. The world has become multipolar, cross-border flows of information, money, goods and people have led to unprecedented economic, interplay between peoples and countries. The nature of globalisation is changing, creating an increasingly unstable global environment with increasing fragmentation between the centre of the world economy and the peripheral world. As national interdependence increases, the fight for competition for power involves a wide range of national and non-governmental players, some of whom believe that globalisation is threatening their position. This reinforces instability in the world. Events in the world show that any of the major powers will not only be difficult, but will also not need to prevail. The goal of reaching an agreement is likely to become a long-term US policy. Just what Trump wanted can make America great again. The ability to agree on something rather than dictate makes it possible to achieve its impact. Why will the US want to agree? Let us assume that the Russian hackers have had a significant impact on the US elections. This shows to the whole world that the Russians have learned to do what the US has been doing in the long-standing Mayan and other revolutions. Let us be honest, rarely when they happen without the intervention of the US authorities. This does not mean, however, that organized revolutions should be an export product, but the processes are stimulated. Today, for some reason, we are concerned that negotiations and agreements are a terrible thing. The world is in charge of finding an agreement, it's better to shoot. The events around the US elections lead to the conclusion that if the Russians have learned, others will also learn. There was no shave when there was one gendarmus, now they will be several. And there are also many more sources of insecurity in such a multipolar world. So we can't say – we don't care, we're with the strongest. The strongest one can also be wrong. There is no safe monetary system today, either oil/fuels or warring. The multipolar world is creating many challenges. Without leadership from Russia, the US, Europe and China, issues such as religious extremism, environmental problems, security and many other issues cannot be resolved, nor can international trade be promoted. Both the US and Russia will have to make key strategic decisions to successfully lavish the waters of interdependence. There are areas of great common interest between the US and Russia, as well as areas where there are major differences between the two powers that need to be overcome. What about Europe? Half-truth will be disappointing. The European Union cannot and does not want to recognise its mistakes and correct them, or it simply pretends that everything is right. We also see a strong example of half-truth and the unwillingness to recognise the obvious, in a report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which states that one of the most important trading partners we have is the United Kingdom. The growing role of China and other Asian countries in the Latvian economy, increasing export volumes are also noted. I quote: “In 2016, more than 70 percent of Latvia’s total export of goods was made up of trade in goods with the EU, while exports to Russia and the CIS countries decreased to 12 percent. China plays an increasing role in the export balance of Latvian goods, reaching 2.5 percent of the total.” End of quote. At the same time, it is said that exports to the EU will not grow significantly in 2017 due to the slow growth of the euro area. It is wrong to compare groups of countries, such as the EU, with Russia and China, but the data presented in this way clearly looks impressive. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not rule out the distorted data, then it could be said openly – still, even after the sanctions imposed by the EU, we export eight percent of total exports to Russia; we export more only to Estonia and Lithuania, but part of this is fictitious, artificial transactions. No other country is as important for Latvian exports as Russia, and before sanctions we exported 11.6 percent of total exports to Russia. By unwittingly supporting and continuing to support sanctions, we are sawing the branch on which we sit – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could recognise it fairly without changing the figures. Before I finish, I would still like to focus on China, because we have just mentioned it as a potential partner for economic cooperation... Two minutes, please...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U18	Do you want to combine the two times of the debate? Are there any objections to Members if Member Potapkin brings together the two times of the debate? There's no objection. Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U19	With great difficulty, China was found in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs report at all. However, there are four sentences there. It says that in November 2016, more than 10 bilateral cooperation agreements in the field of transport and logistics, finance, IT, education and science and culture were signed in Riga as part of the cooperation format between Central and Eastern European countries and China. During the Riga Summit, a “16+1” banking association or consortium was established, as well as a “16+1” investment fund providing new financial opportunities for Latvian projects in cooperation with China and other countries. And further: “In the medium term, Latvia’s primary interest in “16+1” format is developing cooperation in the field of transport and logistics, achieving regular transit cargo flows from China, as well as creating direct air traffic. [...] One of the benefits of Latvia’s cooperation with China “16+1” is the certification of food producers for a range of Latvian food and plant products.” Let us not forget that 2016 was the year of China in Latvia! We took the 16+1 Platform's Prime Ministers, signed a number of agreements, but the Ministry's report shows that there is no understanding of how to use these agreements and how to achieve tangible results for cooperation. Is there a plan for Latvia to cooperate in all these areas or for which projects to attract the investment fund already mentioned? How will we attract these regular transit flows from China? Unfortunately, there is no plan. It will be about three months after this meeting, and we already have the feeling that we have completed our mission – we have helped other countries to fulfil their interests and forgot our own. This is not the first time that we have already agreed, joined organisations and stopped. It is obvious that we do not understand or want to use not only the 16+1 platform, but also organisations such as the OECD and also the European Union itself. It is clear from all of this that Latvia's foreign policy is simply not there – we only listen to Western partners without saying anything about defending our interests, we hate Russia only because it is, but we do not know what to do in our relations with China. Finally, I would like to point out that the representation and defence of our own interests is not in contradiction with our largest partners – NATO and the US. We must therefore use our embassies and the organisations that we have joined. It is equally important to refrain from excessive rhetoric in any direction – you can never know exactly what you will ever have to work with. And the burnt bridges will not benefit any cooperation. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U20	Groups of the National Alliance “All for Latvia!” – on behalf of the ‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’ Member Rihards Kols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U21	Request: allow both times for debate to be combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U22	Are there any objections from Members? So you can combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U23	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Dear President of the Saeima. Sir, Ministers! Excellency! Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! We have been seeing foreign policy reports prepared by the Foreign Minister in the Saeima for several years, and in order to improve Latvia's foreign policy policies, neither our proposals nor our criticism of what has been done and planned we have not saved. The National Association would like to thank the Foreign Minister for, in our view, both structurally and from the point of view of integration of national interests – the most qualitative report so far. A year has passed, which has highlighted new, possibly existential challenges for the existing democracy of the Western countries, and it is likely that another year will be expected of foreign and diplomatic crisis and a year will be completed, which will demand from our foreign policy implementers – especially NATO and the European Union – smart, effective and strategic action to protect and strengthen Latvia's existing positions. It is legitimate that the report, with a wide range of ambition and ambition, covers a huge range of foreign policy issues and activities, is increasingly caught behind its annual fallback stone. A long-term vision and a vision of Latvia's foreign policy is lost, instead of drawing a list of activities to be carried out in 2017 (based on the continuation of the activities started in 2016) and focusing on too detailed and specific issues. There would be a lot of hope, a commitment to work and work, but there seems to be no time to think whether what has been done has achieved the objectives set out above, and whether what we are going to do will produce results that are in our national interest. It gives the impression that without setting out concrete, strategic tasks in representing and defending Latvia's most important interests in the long term, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs avoids defining clear foreign policy priorities, curbing itself with declaratory statements and well-known chronological stories from news tapes. About Latvia in the European Union. We welcome the fact that, following persistent, annual calls from the National Alliance, the fundamental principle that the European Union is a union of national states has finally been strengthened not only in the rhetoric of the Foreign Minister last year, but also in the basic document of national foreign policy. The shocks experienced over the last year have been blamed with a true understanding of the need for a European Union based on the values and traditions of the community of national states; a community where national parliaments play an important role and where the competences of the Member States and the European Union are strictly separated. Any attempts to break this limit shall not be permitted. Therefore, the position of the Foreign Minister cannot be understood, arguing about the need to avoid mergers within the European Union within the blocks and groups of different countries, but at the same time highlighting and calling for strengthening Latvia's participation and activities in such groups in several sections of the report. The current form of governance anticipates and requires the merger of the various national blocks – it is a fashion operandi of the European Union and a reality that will most likely not change in the coming years, as the national interests of the Member States of the European Union can never be and will not be uniform. It should be noted that opposition to the process of creating such blocks could be harmful even to the national interests of Latvia. Let us consider the context of Brexit, in which it is clear that our interests on many issues are unlikely to match the ambitions of other European powers. Our task must be constant – to do everything possible to ensure that the process of exit from the European Union does not adversely affect Latvian citizens and their rights. Consequently, cooperation with other Member States with similar views of the European Union is an acute necessity. The National Association believes that, in addition to the existing forms of cooperation, it is time to start work on closer cooperation between the Baltic and Black Sea countries. The migration crisis is still painful and topical for Europe, which the Foreign Minister inescapably reduces only in the context of the Syrian war. It continues to be a major threat to Europe's security and undermines our collective capacity to respond to today's exacerbations and threats. Organised crime networks in the area of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings, which directly ensure the influx of migrants in Europe, continue to operate as easily as before across and across the borders of the European Union. Trafficking in human beings and smuggling of human beings and the security risks they pose in the context of migration are still not sufficiently identified and considered as transnationally addressing real issues. But where crime thrives, democracy and the rule of law are destroyed. In today's global environment, full of complex and multidimensional international, regional and local threats, no country will be able to face these challenges alone. The representation and cooperation of interests should be seen and implemented in order to ensure that our national interests are represented and our views heard. About security of Latvia. Within twenty-six years of regaining independence on the Latvian foreign and internal policy agenda, security and defence issues continue to return. We've never been better protected than now, but at the same time... We have never faced such serious security challenges. The positive is obvious – NATO decisions reached at the Warsaw Summit are also an achievement of foreign policy, but it would not be desirable to stop at what was achieved. Future challenges need to be looked at and new objectives and targets developed in order to further strengthen Baltic regional security. For example, the deployment of NATO Naval Forces in the Baltic Sea region needs to be achieved. However, it is clear that Latvia's security is difficult to imagine beyond a stable and legal international order. Therefore, our capabilities as a full member of international organisations such as the OSCE, the UN, the OECD and the World Trade Organisation should be assessed and exploited in order to strengthen our position and national interests in the international area and to raise awareness of the challenges our country faces every day. On relations between Latvia and the European Union and Russia. In the report, the Foreign Minister mentioned that Latvia should implement a pragmatic approach based on compliance with international law and principles regarding Russia. Let's go. Therefore, it is not clear why things are not being called true. To argue that Russia is continuing its attempts to influence what is happening elsewhere in the world is to say nothing. Without even mentioning various rumours and unconfirmed truths, Russia has taken active, consistent and targeted action, interfering and influencing democratic elections in sovereign states, spreading disinformation through various channels of influence, funding political parties, media and organisations with the aim of undermining public confidence in Western democracy, media and political facilities. Minister, there will already be Russian presidential elections next year. So far, we have all witnessed the fact that Vladimir Putin, who has been elected for the first time in the presidential election of Russia, has been making an act of aggression on the part of the Kremlin, with a targeted search for outside enemies. We need to play an active role and continue to give convincing reasons for the need to strengthen our collective transatlantic security. It should be recalled that no softening or change of position with regard to Russia is permitted at a time when the occupation of Crimea is still taking place. There should be no minimum derogation from the targeted actions implemented so far, by updating and maintaining on the international agenda issues related to violations of Russian international law. We cannot expect support or a common position of the European Union or even NATO for Latvia on such matters of principle without Latvia's basic position and awareness of its objectives on these issues. Targeted communication has an important role to play in this respect, with which we can achieve the required results. It is therefore to be welcomed that we have also begun to focus on strategic communication with the aim of rebutting the information war and disinformation conducted by Russia. But it will not be possible to achieve this successfully without absolute clarity about what has been done and without setting specific objectives. Without the identification of a specific audience, all strategic communication is getting away with and remains a “list”. It is not interchangeable, because otherwise – we speak only to ourselves and around ourselves. We all want a foreign policy in which we express our interests and needs in the world with self-esteem and without fear. Let us continue to work together to make the things we want to see ourselves. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U24	Thank you. On behalf of the Unity - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U25	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr. Foreign Minister! Ministers! Excellency! Dear colleagues, 2016 has clearly been the year in which security has been an absolute priority, both in foreign and domestic policy. Therefore, at least I was not surprised, and in fact pleased, that the annual report of the Foreign Minister addresses almost every page issues related to security strengthening. I read and tried to note, and every green note is about safety. This means that we fully understand what foreign policy means, what its connection with domestic policy is, and what is ultimately the main objective for Latvia, Europe and the world to be safe. Today also in the world, security is one of the main priorities, and Latvia is not an exception. These are both terrorist threats, Russia's aggressive foreign policy, the challenges of migration and the risks of radicalisation, and they remind us again and again that there is nothing more important than security. Security for everyone in their own country, for their family, security for their own country. That is why, in my speech today, I want to focus more on one very important security edge today – security in the electronic environment or cyberspace. Today's technological developments are, of course, making progress, and it is difficult to imagine someone who could say that we should delay technological development. However, we must also be aware that the development of these technologies, in parallel, represents an increasing threat and a threat to our security. It not only contributes to progress but also threatens us. By adapting to increasingly complex threats, NATO has already declared that it will be ready to respond to attacks in cyberspace, depending on their severity, in accordance with Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. And it is not surprising, given the evil that today can be carried by the unlawful use, damage, paralysis or destruction of various information and communication technologies. In the entire information space of Latvia and the Baltic region, war is taking place every day and for many years. And only Russian aggression in Ukraine, in the east of Ukraine, in 2014 finally scattered the misinformation and made many eyes open. Many did not believe it was, although they know it in the Baltic States, felt it, talked about it long ago. It was an example in Estonia... More than once, Latvian institutions also received such signals... But the world said: “No, let’s make a pragmatic relationship. Well, why irritate someone?” However, Latvians are still exposed to misleading and false information, as well as propaganda campaigns every day. There is still a game with a public idea to question and scare all and everyone so that through the flow of false information, the person cannot distinguish the truth from the fiction and plain lies, half-truth – from half-mile. Today's new world reality shows that hybrid war not only disinformation and massive propaganda campaigns, but also cyber crime is used to influence other countries' internal policies, decision-makers and even such processes as elections. In Latvia, we have to consider that our municipal elections this year and next year's parliamentary elections can also try to influence. And that is why we, with the word “we” here I mean decision-makers, must be able to do everything possible to react in a timely and proactive manner in the event of similar attacks to prevent Latvian citizens from engaging in hybrid war. We must not allow ourselves to misunderstood human minds. We must also be able to respond and prevent any attack on public institutions, infrastructure and public opinion, and here I am thinking of both the possibility of countering a conventional attack, the possibility of countering a hybrid attack and the possibility of countering a cyber attack. Unfortunately, even Latvian-written media in public space sometimes catch up with the loudspeakers and the seemingly sensations of Russian propaganda. And the sadst thing is that everyone today has more clicks like and Share. The only desire to do so is to win the widest possible audience and demonstrate the highest possible rating. And how often we forget ourselves as well as the media forget that at some point there is a very cynical game with our country and the fundamental values of our country! And in fact, we ourselves are crushing the foundations on which we are standing today. There is no acceptance of public and general hobbies about our country, our officials or our processes in social media, in bad and portals, or in classic media. And not because I belong to this evil, which is often written about these critical articles, but because I see and understand well how it is used against us from day to day to weaken us and to treat each other... Even the pope – even the pope of Rome! “I don’t invite you to ignore suffering and tragedy or naively see evil, however, constant negative drumming can lead to apathy and resignation.” We politicians need to think and discuss how things can be improved. And it does not seem that the problem does not exist. However, the discussion of any problem should focus on the result rather than on the occurrence of mutual aggression, a divided and shocking manner of society. I will never accept that on our national holiday week, public media as an sensation is being taught that ordinary people, lying about someone else, are being given programmes about the award of the country's highest prize, which seems to be unwarranted. I can agree – then there was a discussion about whether the steps taken by the law enforcement bodies were adequate and proportionate. But what was the aim of this action? What did we want to show someone? Is there now any justification for why we are questioning the necessity of our centenary celebration and the expenditure planned for it? Is there any justification and legitimate aim for the blotting of the grave of the former state's senior official? I call on those who are trying so easily to join this group of critics, but to think and remember that there are things in civilised society that should not be ridiculed after ridicule. Likewise, I call on everyone who, as my fellow Member points out, comes to arouse hatred or any other discord and without any accusations of conscience when discussing the request for a ministerial resignation, uses concepts that, knowing the tragic and painful history of our people, are not only insulting, but they have to doubt whether the authorities at all are aware of the importance of these sufferings and are able to act in such a way that nothing like this can ever happen again. In addition, in this way, we are quite obscenely used by society to thoughts and actions that will never be acceptable, never in any way tolerant. In the context of cyber security, we need to remind every day and every time that the biggest weapon to face the risks posed by cyber threats is wisdom and critical minds that will not allow provocation, deception and confusion. The only solution for a sustainable future is to promote critical thinking, raise analytical capacity, and develop media literacy. In addition to raising awareness of cyber security issues at the level of public administration, children and young people from the first years of school also need to be taught how to direct themselves towards the extensive flow of information so that they can verify whether they can rely on specific sources of information. We need to teach children to distinguish between real facts and manipulative opinions and to be able to explain the importance of their data security in this age of the Internet. And maybe one of us needs to do it himself, perhaps we should also look at the information, where it comes from, and what its purpose is. We have a duty to defend our people by making them sufficiently informed and critical of the information around them. In this case, I would also like to thank our journalists, because you are not alone trying to explain to the public the causes of certain cases. I would also like to mention a positive example when journalists, professionally performing their role as a watchman, despite the silence of politicians and the desire to avoid, found a way to inform the public about the way in which a popular elected Member of the European Parliament (for the sake of foolishness and non-deepness) not only voted against the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on the fight against the propaganda of Russian and terrorist organisations, but, without any accusations of conscience, the Prime Minister should consider three times whether to do so. These are examples of our daily life, and much too much can be said about them. But we must always remember that we are not alone in today's world – we have allies. We are a member of NATO, and it protects us. The fact that NATO adopted a decision at the Warsaw Summit in 2016 that the cyberspace was declared equivalent to...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U26	Mrs Āboltiņa, the time for your debate is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U27	There's still a page.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U28	Do Members not object if Mrs Āboltiņa brings together the two times of the debate? Members shall not object. Please! We are continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U29	So at the Warsaw Summit it was announced that cyberspace is equivalent to the area of operations – just like land, air and water. At a time when cyber threats in the region as a whole are becoming more realistic and present, the only potentially effective solution and answer to this is to work even closer together with our allies and partners, sharing experiences through learning the strategies and conclusions of cyber protection for our partners and neighbours, analysing cyber attacks. Training to promote cyber capacity will also enable us to prevent incidents and crisis situations more successfully. We must not rely solely on our allies and on Article 5 that will protect us. First of all, we must be able to protect ourselves in a cyberspace – just like protecting ourselves at the borders of our country. The way to wins in foreign policy is not easy, it is not fast, and it is not without difficulty. We are well aware that in today's foreign policy there are so many unforeseen developments, unexpected events and coincidences that even well-planned and tactical, professional tasks do not always bring the expected results. Become a member state of the OECD 35, as well as decisions taken at the NATO Warsaw Summit on strengthening the military presence of the Alliance in the Baltic and Poland, which in the case of Latvia envisages... intends to deploy a Canadian-led multinational battalion (the Battle Group) already this year, which is clearly the most important success in Latvia's foreign policy last year. This is not a chance of success. Any success has been hard work. It has been a hard job for foreign officials and diplomats. Thank you to the Foreign Ministry's diplomats and staff for what they have done to strengthen our foreign policy. And, of course, thank you also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, without whose competent management this success would not be possible. Finally, I would like to remind each of us that the internal success and failure of each country are reflected in its foreign policy. Therefore, let us think that it is our common task to promote and strengthen our country and that it will be up to our country's foreign policy to determine how strong and strong our country's internal policies will be! And our citizens will be able to feel protected and belong to our country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U30	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members!... ( Interface: ‘Let’s continue the debate! ’ ) The name of the Member is waiting for Berzins – for a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U31	Dear colleagues from the Legal Commission! We meet in five minutes at the premises of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U32	Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U33	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: no reason solvita Āboltiņa... Solvita Aboltiņa, you're not registered!... Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Nally Kleinberga, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Roman Mežeckis, Vladimir Nikonov, Jūlija Stepanenko... is, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Trupovnieks and Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U34	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U35	Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. On the agenda, ‘Annual report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the progress made and the planned activities of the country’s foreign policy and of the European Union’. We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the “From the heart to Latvia” member Inguna Silverba. Wait... One second! Dear colleagues, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima sitting room. We are not voting. We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the “From the heart to Latvia” member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U36	Prime Ministers! Honourable Members! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! In 2016, at the conclusion of the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it was promised with hope that Latvia should demonstrate itself as a responsible and mature member of the international community, increasingly engaging in global processes. I would like to focus on the words "proactively involved". With this hope, I also started reading a report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to find answers to the questions: how has the Minister fulfilled his commitment, what real results have been achieved, how has foreign policy protected or improved the security, prosperity and economic growth of the population? However, deep disappointment took place from the start of the reading. What we are reading is not a report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but a planner for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is a story about what activities have been written in the Minister's planner – where he was flying and where he is going to fly, where he met and where he is going to meet. Does the Minister have to present his planner to the Saeima? Should, however, an assessment be made, reported on the concrete results achieved and on how they affect the government's stated objectives? Of course, if they were! In 2016, when the Prime Minister took office, it was promised that the government will be a team working for a common goal. Not in the interests of one ministry, but for the benefit of the whole society. Is this done? Unfortunately, there is no! Until Latvia has defined national interests, our national interests, what can then be foreign policy? It's exactly as it says in this planner – where our friends invite us, there we go what our friends say – we do it without thought! It is not possible to formulate Latvia's foreign policy if there are no answers from the government to the following fundamental questions: what do we want to achieve, even if we should act alone, and what is important for us to protect, even if we are fighting for it alone? Answers to these questions must be at the heart of Latvia's strategic decisions. These are the questions on which we in the Group of the Heart for Latvia wanted to read the answers in the Foreign Minister's report. But there are no answers to these questions. What we can read in the report is: In 2017, Latvia's foreign policy priorities will be: first, to strengthen... on the other hand, to get involved... Third, to continue to promote... , fourthly – promote... , fifth – to support and maintain... Unfortunately, this is the work of the entire government – each minister continues to work calmly and live with his own planner. Why? The answer is simple: there is no common strategy, there is no common vision for the development of the country. There is a primitive response to events, but there is a lack of ability to look at three, five steps forward. We are now living in a particularly turbulent world. If we look at the situation in which we were in the foreign policy debate a year ago, it is clear that the world has become even more fragile, unclear. The world has been affected by the events of 2016 – the unexpected election of Brexit and the new President of the United States Donald Trump. These are clear signals that many modern democracys reject globalisation and international dictatorships in the determination of the interests of sovereign states, including the opening of borders to trade and migrants. The European Union lived up to Brexit, but it still does not understand and is unable to find a way to live further, what to do, what values to promote. It is already clear that each Member State of the European Union is concerned and busy with its own internal policy issues, which often do not allow strategic, joint foreign policy decisions to be taken. European governments are unable to demand that their citizens sacrifice themselves for foreign policy. That is why Europe is also not taking part in Syria... The European vision is transformed into bureaucracy, discussing legislation such as limiting the capacity of vacuum cleaners, uniform requirements for clothes dryers, cosmetics, fruit jams, showers, wine-coolers and much more. Unfortunately, the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly shows that there is very little hope that this world Turbulence will decrease in the near future. Therefore, it is all the more important that Latvia's foreign policy is active and that we are ready for the changing situation. And now more than ever we have to be clear about our conditions and requirements, we have to understand whether and what Latvian citizens are willing to pay, sacrifice in the name of common goals. And that's why the statements made by the Foreign Minister (I quote) are strange: "Latvia will stand up for the improvement achieved in the integration process so far, supporting in accordance with its interests the deepening or extension of cooperation. Latvia supports the targeted use of the possibilities provided by the current EU treaties. Latvia will stand for respect for the existing regulatory framework.” Minister, wake up – the world has changed! We cannot support what is no longer working! The same applies to strengthening Latvia's economic competitiveness. According to this report, it is clear that the most important thing has been achieved – we have joined the OECD! What we plan to do in 2017, being a member of this organization, what interests we will represent, what it will bring about to strengthen economic competitiveness – it remains to be mentioned. We can only mention the practical contribution of the Foreign Service to strengthening Latvia's external trade and diversification of exports. ‘ In 2016, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs coordinated and participated... , implemented a series of export promotion measures, as well as discussions on markets of interest... “ But there is no real result, no example, no success stories. Here I must agree with you, Minister, that no such information can be provided in the plan. What has actually been done to protect Latvian children abroad? Planner's scheduled? A declaration accepted by the Saeima has been sent to the embassies? In turn, the Embassy of Latvia has taken steps to raise awareness... Now it's really a big job! How many children have been helped by embassies last year? How many children have they helped to return to their families or Latvia? Minister, don't be modest, tell me, be proud of the work of a foreign restaurant, so that citizens, entrepreneurs can assess for whom and why Latvian taxpayers spend almost 34 million euros for diplomatic and consular missions, and almost 15 million euros for ministry expenses! May everyone appreciate the benefits and truly appreciate the contribution of the foreign restaurant to support both society and business! Thank you, Minister, for providing information on those issues that have not been included in previous reports, including the CETA Agreement. At the same time, both in the entire report and in this section, there is a lack of assessment of what we will have to donate when concluding CETA, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement or other agreements. Whether the Transatlantic Trade Agreement will remain relevant for the future – this is something we will see most likely already this year. In general, it must be concluded that until Latvia has the capacity to formulate strategic tasks important for Latvia, to make strategic decisions, it is not possible to make a proactive Latvian foreign policy. Today we can get acquainted with the various activities of the foreign restaurant that lead us... well, if still a foreign restaurant just on a certain path, but more it looks as if it's going to be surprised where it's going to go. The biggest problem for Latvia, which is stopping development at the moment, is the disbelief of Latvia on its own. Without public faith and trust, strategic and long-term decisions cannot be made. Therefore, there is Latvia's presence on the ground, at best – the response to the problem that has arisen today, but, honestly, most of them is the response to the evening. Therefore, above all, the main task of the government is to gain the trust of Latvian society. Power must not be more important than concern for the people of their own country. Be honest and finally start thinking about Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U37	Member Mārtiņš Bondars on behalf of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U38	Madam President, Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! We all live in a time of change. The world is changing much more frequently this century than it did in the past centuries. This must be linked to the globalisation processes that we have experienced after the Second World War and, in particular, after the collapse of the Soviet Union. There has been a massive mass movement of people around the world (i.e. free movement of people), a huge movement of capital around the world, and a huge movement of goods and services between countries. But these changes will certainly mean something else. And the three main directions that these changes will take are related to the fact that friends will review their relationship with friends. And that's what you can see in Britain because of the British arming the European Union and saying: "Dear friends, we want to control our own borders! Dear friends, we are not interested in a common market where there is free movement of goods and services, free movement of capital and free movement of people! We are interested in a contract with you.” Relations with American friends and relations between the European Union and the US are also being reviewed. Relations between European countries and the US will be reviewed. Various economic cooperation agreements are under review: the North American Cooperation Agreement, or NAFTA, the almost non-negotiated or negotiated agreement with Asian countries. What America will do with Europe is not at all talked about. So the economic relations that have prevailed so far in the world are being reviewed. There is also a review of relations that have prevailed between countries that could not be referred to as friends, but might perhaps be referred to as rivals. I think that in the near future we will see a change in relations between the US and Russia. I think we will see in the near future that relations between the US and China will also change. And it will also have a direct and indirect impact on Latvia. This is a time of change, and this is the time of the big countries. During this time, large countries will work to establish a new order of the world – a order that will rule according to the order that was dominated by the collapse of the Soviet Union, which formed a monopolar world, and which will probably now show itself to a sufficient number of different regional players. Thus, at this time, the powers and the powers of the powers will realise their interests. What, then, is left to the small and less influential countries? The small and less influential countries must first understand what is happening in the world, second, be able to formulate their interests in line with the realities that are taking place in the world. And finally – finally! – at this time, small countries must be able to pursue their interests. And I understand that the time of change is a time of ignorance. It is a time of ignorance, because it is impossible to understand how their interests or the interests of other major powers will be realised, how one or the other scenario will end and what will happen. I therefore agree with those colleagues who believe that it is time to focus on what we are, what Latvia is, what our policy is. And if we look at the policies formulated by foreign policy – security policy, economic interests and national policy – all this is very good, it is in accordance with the interests that Latvia has. Only, as it says in its saying, “the devil is hiding in the detail” – in those parts that are in these three main interests. Security policy. Well, if we're talking about ourselves, then... Here, the so-called information war against Latvia was talked about. That the falseness here is cultivated and sown in different ways. Yeah, it's happening. It's happening! Only, colleagues, let's start looking at ourselves, let's start with a coalition that distributes these same propaganda lies in Latvian society and wonder why others find fertile soil for this disinformation! You don’t have to go to Washington and tell the American senators: “You know, we have adopted a fantastic 2017 budget – now fantastic! – but in the information space we have been rudely layered for two weeks. They are, I guess, foreign forces.’ I'm sorry, the 2017 budget is just... ( The paragraphs are: “Well? ” “ Dramatic?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ I see that the coalition... I understand that the coalition has problems with content. While you spoke, we listened very carefully. Now that I am speaking, it seems to you that you can speak in return. How do you think it's not part of the war that... Who are you talking to? That is exactly what it is! You combat those who think otherwise, you fight different opinions. What are you complaining about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Stop it! Economic interests. Now get it once! Now get it once! Well, if you want to open a representation in America, then open it in Boston, the world's academic capital, where there is knowledge, where there is a vision for the future of how the world will develop! – instead of once again going on a traditional road, dig up and think: “Maybe in Washington, maybe in New York?” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: Antarctica! ) No, open where the future of the world lies! And where still national politics, where the centenaries of Latvia place you, to say so, in front and in the back! ... In Latvian. How will the various activities now be cultivated and promoted outside the world? Now give those Latvians who live outside an opportunity to train their children on Saturdays in Latvian and culture! Now give me that chance! Is that expensive? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “There’s a chance! It's already!” ) It's expensive, Mrs. Viņķele, if? There's no... Apparently, you're not going too much... Do you meet your countrymen too little? Finally. During this period of change, it is the ability of the state's senior officials to carry out Latvia's interests – stated Latvian interests – in the world. Regrettably, the choices that you, the dear coalition, have made in relation to the Supreme Officials of the State, are not those with which Latvia can start in 2017... at this time of change. These officials and their capacity to act in foreign policy are, to put it mildly, very incomplete. Well, if you cannot replace these officials, my recommendation to you – pay them teachers who will teach them how to work, how to build relationships, how to maintain relationships and how to stand for their interests! Dear colleagues, I wish all of us a good 2017! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U39	Member of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, Artis Rasmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U40	President of the Saeima! Highly honored Ministers! Colleagues! Excellency! On behalf of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union, I would like to thank you for your report. This is to be welcomed. I just want to highlight a few points. In the current changing environment, it is important to strengthen the country's external and internal security, both in its own homework and in close cooperation with NATO and EU partners. Increasing the defence budget and its targeted use is an investment in the security and economic development of our country. We must be fully prepared to welcome the forces of Canada and other NATO partners in Latvia. It will be a question of creditability or reliability – an opportunity to answer those who express concerns about NATO's role and place in the security architecture of the 21st century in Europe. Cyber security and the fight against hybrid threats must be a priority and all the institutions involved must cooperate in this area. These are not just issues of competence of one ministry. I would also like to draw attention to safety in the Baltic Sea. If we want to develop transit routes through Latvia and the Baltic Sea to Scandinavia and Europe, we must pay more attention to maritime safety. I have to agree that relations with the US Latvia are of strategic importance. Close relations with the new administration should be established through existing contacts and the active use of the Diaspora organisations in the United States. Partnership with the US is first of all a matter of security for our country, but we must also activate bilateral economic cooperation, which is also an investment in security. Taking into account the decisions of the Warsaw Summit and the growing role of Canada in improving regional security, it is important to pay particular attention to strengthening relations between Latvia and Canada. CETA is an excellent basis for further development of economic and economic cooperation between Latvia and Canada, especially at the moment when airBaltic has purchased the first Bombardier aircraft and it is planned to provide their services in Latvia. Britain is an important partner for Latvia and the European Union as a whole. This will not change, but it is clear that exit negotiations will not be an easy process. Latvia needs to be clear about its interests, the consequences of Brexit should be assessed in the context of both hundreds of thousands of Latvian interests, who are currently living and working in the UK, and entrepreneurs who are successfully operating in the UK market. Of course, not forgetting safety. Latvian citizens in Great Britain do not have to get into a worse situation than is currently the case in terms of health and social protection. Greater attention should be paid to protect the interests of Latvian citizens in the UK withdrawal process. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should also maintain a very close dialogue with entrepreneurs and their organisations, identifying and defending their interests as well. It is no secret that many British and British companies are looking for the possibility of transferring at least part of their activities to the European Union in order to maintain access to the single market. Nor is it a secret that many countries have been actively trying to attract these companies for some time. Latvia must also be active in this area. We have heard public interest from the European Union's partners in the deployment of European Union agencies currently in Britain. Such as the European Medicines Agency or the European Banking Authority. Have we assessed the possibilities to offer Latvia as a host country to these agencies? The withdrawal of Britain will make the negotiations on the European Union's post-2020 multiannual budget more difficult. As Britain goes, the total budget of the European Union is likely to decrease. There have also been clear signals that more funding will be needed for so-called new challenges – security and migration. European Union funding is essential for Latvia's growth, which is clearly demonstrated by our growth rates, but we will have to be much more active than in the previous European Union budget negotiations to convince our partners that European Union funding, especially for cohesion and the common agricultural policy, should remain to the extent of Latvia beyond 2020. We will have to show that we know how to use it meaningfully. I call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with other ministries, to think carefully about our arguments and to seek allies in good time among the other Member States. Closer cooperation between the Baltic and Nordic countries, covering specific sectors, should be stepped up. Regional transport and energy projects should be the basis for closer regional integration in order to make Latvia and the region competitive and rapidly growing. Energy cooperation and implementation of Rail Baltica project will not bear fruit if we do not attract Poland to these regional projects. Implementation of Rail Baltica and other projects is important for us, taking into account geopolitical and economic aspects. It is in the interests of us and our partners that Latvia should establish a pragmatic dialogue with its neighbours, thus also with Russia. There is currently no favourable background for a breakthrough in bilateral relations, but as a member state of the European Union and NATO, Latvia can build a constructive and mutually respectful dialogue on issues of mutual interest today and in the future. Cooperation with the Eastern Partnership and Central Asia countries should continue, where we have good integration and visibility. It is in the interests of all of us that this region is stable, predictable, open to cooperation and continues with reforms. As regards external economic policy, the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs defines the priorities correctly. At the same time, it is essential that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics and the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia work as a team in shaping Latvia's external economic policy, and that they do so in close consultation with business representative organisations. Finally, I would just like to see more analysis of the possible consequences of the referenda and change of the US administration of Brexit and the impact that this will have on Latvia, as well as the role and place of Latvia as a member of the European Union and NATO in such a changing world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U41	Thank you. Name: Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U42	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Excellency! Honourable Members! Colleagues! Support for Latvia is particularly important, but 2016 has been a historical year for Latvia's security. At both the Wales and Warsaw Summit, together with our neighbours' ability to make the Baltic Sea region a central player on the NATO agenda. We have received a number of assurances that the principle of collective protection remains and will remain valid. Even more precisely, our all-encompassing collective protection commitments are seen as unshakable. NATO, in turn, has demonstrated its ability to exist and adapt, and remains an effective collective security organisation, facing today's challenges. NATO, as a transatlantic organisation, has ensured peace in Europe since 1949. In the current situation, the need for NATO is greater than ever. Of course, the Alliance must change and change with changes in the international security environment. We in Latvia are strong NATO, an alliance capable of protecting our Member States from all threats – from the east and from the south. A strong NATO is made up of strong states. Consequently, the focus should not be on the institutional framework or ways in which countries group, but on national defence budgets, capacity building and a clear political will to use all the means to ensure their protection. Latvia not only receives support from its allies, but also actively participates in UN, European Union and NATO-led international operations in crisis-affected regions of the world. We thus demonstrate our solidarity and contribute to international security. Last year Latvia participated in six international operations with 73 soldiers. It is important that Latvia contributes to the fight against international terrorism by participating in the international coalition military operation Inherent Resolve in Iraq against the terrorist group Da' esh or the Islamic State. Latvia also continues its participation in various formations of NATO and European Union rapid response forces. National defence is in our hands and we choose our own strategic partners. We are not only part of the strongest military alliance in the world, but our main strategic partner is the strongest military partner in today's international policy. On 10 January this year, Latvia and the United States signed an agreement on defence cooperation. Thus, once again, the US has demonstrated its commitment to the security of the region and our country. I would like to take this opportunity to dispel the disinformation distributed in the context of this treaty. The treaty only clarifies the arrangements already in place within NATO, which, by the way, also apply to Latvian soldiers when there is an opportunity to exercise national jurisdiction. In any case, it is not a matter of lenientness or unpunished conduct. If Latvia considers it necessary, it will be able to request a specific crime to be tried under Latvian jurisdiction. This year Latvia will host the NATO multinational battle group, which will arrive here, implementing the historical decisions of the NATO Warsaw Summit on the deployment of forces in Eastern Europe. We have achieved one major objective, which results in several smaller – but not least! – objectives and tasks. We need to do our homework so that Spanish, Italian, Polish, Slovenian, Albanian and Canadian soldiers can do their direct tasks in a full and high-quality way, as well as feel well in their homes. We must remember that the daily life of soldiers is not just a matter of military tasks, it is also a communication with the public, access to things and circumstances necessary for basic life, mutual respect and understanding. By the way, in the recent opinion poll of Latvia, the hockey, then maple syrup and maple leaf were clearly dominated by the most bright associations with Canada. It is only to hope that a positive view of the Canadian-led military battalion in Latvia, for example, will be carried out in one year's time. And more. In my opinion, Canada as many – very many! – the country of our compatriots, which after the war gave us an opportunity to find safe shelter and home for those Latvians who went to the refugees. My family is also home to Canada. The European Union is Latvia's most important political and economic partner. It is in Latvia's interest to take care of its effective and pragmatic activities. We are interested that the European Union and NATO do not duplicate their resources and functions in the military field. Of course, we are not interested in increasing the European Union's bureaucrat army, but we would like to see smart cooperation between the European Union and NATO, mutually developing and complementing our military capabilities, facing hybrid threats, challenges in cyberspace, enhancing maritime security, engaging in training and other activities. The NATO Summit in Warsaw laid the foundations for further cooperation between the European Union and NATO so that both organisations become stronger in the long term. Dear colleagues, The country's foreign policy is a continuation of its internal policy or, to put it figuratively, a mirror. We are just as strong externally, as thoughtfully and consistently do our homework and care for our homes. At the same time, while there is an interaction between foreign policy and internal policy, not only internal policy promotes changes in Latvia's foreign policy, but more and more foreign policy factors are beginning to influence internal policy debate and encourage us to do certain things. However, both processes must serve one purpose – strengthening and development of the state of Latvia. Thus, for example, the decision to transfer two percent of gross domestic product to the defence sector is not only a condition for the full participation of Latvia in NATO, but also our own firm commitment to increase investment in national defence. I would like to say that strong national protection is in our own interest and that we do not have to wait for allies to take action. I am pleased and grateful for your support for this decision, for the understanding and interest you show in increasing Latvia's defence capabilities as high as possible in quality and long term. By our actions, we must show ourselves and allies that we can and want to protect our country. We need to build a country that every generation would respect and would be prepared to protect itself from any future challenges. By involving motivated people in Jaunsardze and Earthsards, we actually not only invest in national defence, but also strengthen Latvia's statehood in the long term. These are resources that are more valuable than money. With such a responsible approach, we should decide on national defence training, the introduction of military training in all senior secondary schools. It is in this way that domestic decisions can bring foreign policy benefits in the field of defence. By our works and consistent actions, we must show that we are responsible to our citizens and treat Latvia's security and future with our responsibility. In conclusion, as a Minister of Defence, I would like to thank Parliament, the Commission on Defence, the Internal Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, the National Security Commission, the Commission on Foreign Affairs and the Commission on European Affairs, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for their support and cooperation. I am convinced that this will be just as successful in the future. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U43	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U44	Request to combine both times!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U45	Are there any objections to merging the two speaking times? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Let’s talk!” ) Members shall not object. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U46	Ministers! Highly honored Presidium! Excellency! Dear Members and honourable Members, ‘ The post-historic nirvana is over (Interruption: “It’s only going to happen! ” ) – the previous belief that the ambitions of the large countries are in the past and are not divided into [new] zones of influence, is no longer there,” said Andris Sprūds, the Director of the Latvian Institute of Foreign Policy a week ago. Do we really return to the arrangements that existed between the two wars of the last century? The principle prevailed – each in its own... and that it is the best. But we know how it all ended. Latvia knows this very well. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, U.S. historian Francis Fukushima said that history has come to an end: all countries in the east of the former wall will now become democratic and war will no longer exist, because democracy is fighting against one another. Yes, the great democratic process started in the direction of the east. But soon a relentless turn came: after Vladimir Putin came to power, the process began to move in the opposite direction – back to the west, this time – to the wave of authoritarianism. I wonder how sympathetic this approach has proved not only in Eastern Europe – in the former block countries – but also in the West! However, Brexit is a special case because the British think that such people will have more say in the 21st century than if they remained in the major peace and security project of Europe and the world of the last century – the European Union. Prime Minister Teresa Maya has announced the final government withdrawal position. In particular, they will leave the single market completely, but nevertheless, they want to remain in part in the Customs Union. Is this possible? Of course, Britain certainly does not want to see a divided European Union, and their Prime Minister, Teresa Maya, will tell Donald Trump tomorrow during her visit. What, though, can we do in such a situation? Our success in foreign policy and security, our strength, is that we have used the window of opportunity after the fall of the Berlin Wall and are now where we need to be – in the European Union and NATO. Therefore, the three main priorities defined by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we have also discussed today, are our road maps: one, two, three. One. Strengthen the external security of the country in close cooperation with NATO and its partners, namely the US and Canada. And it's happening. It's happening! Two. Engage actively in the development of a single and secure European Union. And it's happening. Three. Continue to promote stability and development in the eastern and southern neighbourhood of the European Union. And that's what happens. Now I'm going to add a little bit. Mr. Zarins, I'll add a little. I know you listen carefully. There is much talk about what the new U.S. President Trump has said, namely that only those countries that are NATO... which gives two per cent of GDP to its defence budget. However, it should be remembered that during Bush's recent years, the Minister of Defence Robert Gates, when retiring in Brussels, said in 2011: "We cannot continue that Europe is not fulfilling its commitments to NATO!" And Gates also warned that two percent should be reached. It's nothing new. But then no one took that into account. Europe is beginning to be armed again. Not because of Trump's statements, but because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. That was the turning point, because everyone was terrified that the great war in Europe was once again possible. Even Germany has considered, and the tendency to give protection is becoming less and less the opposite, and while careful, Germany is increasing its defence expenditure, including funding for the creation of a new tank battalion. This leads us to the fact that today the NATO Battalion is not only in our country, Estonia and Lithuania, but also in our neighbours – Poland and Romania. But do you really know what that NATO battalion is? Without Canada. Which are the biggest contingents? Spanish contingent! Italian contingent! And, of course, Poland. The Poles have a whole tank jewellery. In addition, the situation that our diplomats tried to achieve during the interwar period, starting with Zigfrīds Ann Meierovics himself, namely close cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries in defence. At that time, we wanted to attract Finland and Poland, as well as Sweden, to our protection. But neither option was successful. But it has now been achieved. Then we don't do anything? All Nordic countries – Denmark, Norway, Finland, Sweden – together with the Baltic States operate a single system to protect the regional space. It was essentially about understanding itself and real awareness of threats, as well as US policy. There you go! President Barack Obama met with all the Nordic Prime Ministers and one President... Guess who the president was! This agreement was made in Washington last May (our press missed it!) . This was the response of the American President Obama to the Russian war against Ukraine, and this response undoubtedly rescued us from a similar situation right here in the Baltics. Today, Sweden and Finland recognise that without us, these countries cannot defend themselves against Russia. Just as we know we can't without them. And that's why close cooperation is a logical result, all the more because of Brexit. Now, listen, please! The gross domestic product of the Nordic countries, the Baltic States and Poland is higher than that of Russia, but together we are spending half as much on defence as we do. What will happen if the Nordic countries raise their defence expenditure (and also we) to two percent and more? Today, Germany is allocating 39.4 billion of its gross domestic product to protection (I am talking about Germany!) – almost 40 billion, 1.2 percent. 1.2 percent! Imagine that if Germany reaches two percent, it will be 80 billion! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “That’s it!” ) Putin Russia could not even compete with northern Europe – the Baltic States, Poland, Germany – in terms of arms, where it is still with the rest of the European Union! Not to mention the United States and Canada! And Putin knows it well and starts to worry, especially because his election is at the end of next year. That's why he's so active! Of course, the keyword is "US". It is the only power that can outweigh Putin's Russia. Oh, yeah! Two months ago, military training took place in which America, with speedboats, landed its parade from 100 to 150 kilometers east of Helsinki to help the Finnish armed forces get rid of the invaders, assuming that they were “green men”. It is significant that in the east of our country there is a city – I will name that city – Rēzekne, whose mayor for US newspapers expresses concern about NATO training in Latvia. I have not heard that in Finland the mayor of the city in which the training took place would have expressed displeasure about the defence of his country. ( Interface: “They are no longer NATO! ” ) The good news is that in Daugavpils, another man said to these same newspapers that we should consider US soldiers as ours rather than aliens. As I said, closer cooperation between the Nordic countries – between the countries that are already NATO and those that are not yet – is a merit of the United States and Obama. So I suggest: should we not also give the highest award to former U.S. President Barack Obama for our country – the Order of Three Stars? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Citizenship!” ) I would remind you that during Obama, the U.S. Congress granted - the U.S. Congress granted! – more than three billion Nordic countries (Nordic!) , for the protection of the Baltic and Poland for three years. We do not know what will happen afterwards, but we must collect and raise – the Minister, raise! – our defence expenses above – above! - two per cent. Estonia has already managed to do this. Two percent in a changing world will no longer be enough! How can this be achieved? This can be achieved in the same way as in Estonia. This is about the implementation of painful reforms in the education sector and in the health sector. They were as painful in Estonia, but the work was done: there were new funds, and we see the result. We should increase the number of troops to 6000 this year, but we only reached 5700. Moreover, not only should we think about training in secondary schools, as the Minister calls for. Should we not, however, introduce six-year-long military training for at least 200 young people, of whom would be able to recruit troops needed by the army? It is not pleasant to hear that NATO is an out-of-date formation and has not fought terrorism. Let us remember how many Europeans fell in Afghanistan in the fight against terrorism, against the Taliban and al-Qaeda! But now, in conclusion, I want to tell you about the economic links between the United States and Europe. They are extremely strong. This was also demonstrated by U.S. commercial secretary Wilbur Ross, who said in the U.S. Senate that he understood the school of 1930 when the tariffs imposed by the U.S. helped deepen the Great Depression in the U.S. itself. It has just been said in his exodus in the Senate. The European Union together with the US creates millions of jobs for each side. It's not about hundreds of thousands, it's about millions of jobs! Let us now look carefully at the conclusion of new agreements on the NAFTA Treaty, namely the Free Trade Agreement between Canada, America and Mexico, as well as what will now be happening with the TPP, from which the Trump is now leaving. This is very important for all of us. All right! The reason for this is that the middle class, which emerged after the Second World War, is shrinking, and the income gap is increasing between those who have big money and those whose wallet is thin. But in Latvia, which is also in such a situation, something has changed to the right. We have just read in statistics that income for the poor has grown almost twice as much as for the rich. It's 10 percent in favour of six percent. How is that? It turns out coalition – terrible coalition! – has implemented a disguised social-democratic fiscal policy. We're on the right track! Until the next elections in Latvia, it is another two years. During this time, we will work within the priorities identified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This will not only contribute to our protection and security, but will also contribute to our wealth and prosperity. If the three priorities fall together in one goal – in strengthening our country, so that no one can call us the former USSR republic, but we can call us a strong country where there is a reasonable tax policy, where unemployment is below five percent, where it is easy to start companies with high wages and where foreign investors break down to invest their capital here, then I think the era of cheap labour has come to an end. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U47	Thank you. Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U48	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a real pleasure for me to take part in the seventh foreign policy debate, marking the date of Latvia's international de iure recognition. It has become an important tradition in the Saeima. As Latvia's centenary approaches, we look back at the creation and strengthening of our statehood on a global scale, as well as assessing the achievements and intentions of our collective efforts. The year 2017 is especially important because it is 130 years since the birth of the first Latvian Foreign Minister, Zigfrīds Anna Meierovica. And it is thanks to Minister Meierovicas that we can mark the 96th anniversary of the recognition of the Republic of Latvia de iure today. More than 20 years ago, Latvia's foreign policy task was formulated – to strengthen Latvia's independence and to strengthen and ensure its irreversibility. At a time when more and more attention is being paid to external security issues, we see independence not as a self-evident mission, but as a key mission that must be devoted to our daily efforts. The key elements of the strengthening of nationhood – security and growth – drive Latvia's foreign policy work, in which Parliament is also actively involved. The Saeima provides the legal framework for the direction of foreign policy; Saeima officials represent our country internationally and are active in commissions and cooperation groups. Looking back on last year, we can be pleased that thanks to targeted work, a number of Latvian foreign policy objectives have been achieved. At the same time, the year has also brought new challenges. We are witnessing that, in the face of growing global political and military crises and threats, external security remains relevant both last year and this year. At present, threats are not only understood by terrorism or by some theoretical military threat, but also by hybrid threats, which are a complex phenomenon and require a complex approach and non-standard solutions. The European Union and NATO made important steps in this regard last year. It is important to develop coordination at national level this year. A lot has already been achieved – here we can mention both the decision of the NATO Warsaw Summit to deploy a battle group in Latvia, the rapid increase in defence budget, as well as the activities of the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence and the Baltic Media Centre of Excellence. Cooperation between the state and local authorities and public support have a key role to play in strengthening external security. The issue of dealing with the migration crisis is still topical. The Member States of the European Union have been able to react quickly to the situation regarding illegal migration by establishing a European Border and Coast Guard, where Latvian border guards are also involved. Targeted work on strengthening the European Union's external borders and cooperation with countries of origin and transit of migrants should continue. It is important to maintain a position on the reallocation mechanism for asylum seekers, which must be based on the principle of voluntary rather than compulsory quotas. In order to strengthen Latvia's foreign policy interests, it is also very important to use various global and regional formats, which have topical topics on the agenda, such as development, peace and security. In an inter-parliamentary union, we have discussed a lot about sustainable development. Last autumn, a five-year strategy was adopted, which has become a road map for joint efforts until 2021, highlighting the need to build strong, democratic parliaments and to promote their cooperation, promote gender equality, defend human rights, promote peace and democracy in the world. Security and growth are key words also in the context of Europe's future, building a politically and economically integrated and strong European Union. To a large extent, the future of Europe will be influenced by the decision of British citizens to leave the European Union. After the withdrawal process has been completed, British citizens will have to draw conclusions on the concrete benefits and losses resulting from this decision. In the meantime, it is in Latvia's interest to maintain close cooperation with the United Kingdom in the field of security and economics, as well as to seek the protection of the rights and interests of Latvian citizens living in Great Britain. In 2016, Latvia was successful in leading the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, as well as the NB8 cooperation format. A significant foreign policy event last year was the meeting of the peaks of China and 16 Central and Eastern European countries or “16+1” in Latvia. The opportunity to develop the transit potential, as well as find new outlets for goods produced in Latvia – this is one of the main motives for participating in the 16+1 cooperation format. Practical results are already being seen. A number of Latvian food producers, including 12 milk processing and 33 fish processing companies, have been able to certify their products in China. At the same time, cooperation in the field of education and tourism needs to be further developed. Bilateral cooperation is very important in the pursuit of Latvia's foreign policy interests. We have continued to maintain close and special relations with our closest neighbours – Lithuania and Estonia. A constructive and active relationship also develops with our neighbour Belarus within the framework of both the EU's Eastern Partnership and the bilateral and European Union's Eastern Partnership. That is why, at the invitation of Latvia, the Prime Minister of Belarus participated in the 16+1 summit in Riga. A few days ago, the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis opened a representative office of “Latvian Railways” in Belarus, which will facilitate Latvia’s integration into global logistics chains, including in the direction of China. It is important to maintain a pragmatic relationship with our neighbour, Russia, while respecting the norms and principles of international law. Mutual beneficial cooperation in sectors such as transit and logistics, agriculture and fisheries, trade and cross-border cooperation should be encouraged. Last week, the inauguration of the new President of the United States, Donald Trump, took place. One of the tasks of the Latvian Foreign Service this year will be to build constructive relations with the new US administration. The Saeima will continue its cooperation with the US Congress, where both chambers are dominated by the political power represented by the new President – the Republican Party. When we think about Latvia's growth, we primarily understand economic growth and increase in the welfare of the population. In order to achieve this, it is essential to promote competitiveness, diversify Latvian export markets and attract foreign investments, which will allow the introduction of new technologies and create additional jobs. Latvia's competitiveness has been positively influenced by the fact that Latvia has become a full member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Our diplomatic and consular missions, as well as the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia are carrying out great work to support Latvian entrepreneurs in external markets. Thinking about opening new Latvian representations abroad, essentially – very important! – take into account the economic interests of Latvia. The honorary consuls of Latvia play an important role in defending Latvia's interests, especially in those countries where there are no representatives of us or where there are limited human resources. Reflective and coordinated external communication and promotion of the name of Latvia in the world are essential for the successful achievement of foreign policy objectives. Finally, I would like to thank the Latvian Foreign Service as well as my colleagues in the Saeima for their achievements in promoting Latvia's growth and internationally defending Latvia's interests. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U49	Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U50	Dear colleagues, As both the commission presidents and the political groups have spoken and there have been a number of interesting things, I would like to respond briefly and to have a bit of a dilemma, because this debate is usually good because it is not just reading the speeches, but it is a debate on the issues. First of all, thank you very much to the chairmen of the Saeima's Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs. I think that our cooperation on a daily basis, formulating Latvia's position, examining international treaties and appointing ambassadors, is excellent, and thank you also for the recommendations and evaluation you have given. I want to focus on some of the views that have been expressed here and start with what Mr Potapkin said about the fact that the report does not formulate Latvia's benefits of membership of the European Union. I have the sixth debate, Mr Potapkin. There are six reports, there are six speeches. And we have talked a lot about Latvia's benefits from the European Union, not just about money and the Structural Funds. If necessary, I can remind you once again that we are talking here about the free movement of people, the visa-free movement. On the possibility for our people to choose study places throughout the European Union and drive back with more knowledge. On a common effective external and trade policy. For things that, in fact, are so obvious to us, and if everything disappeared at one point and, let's say, when we try to cross the Latvian-Lithuanian or Latvian-Estonian border, we would ask for a visa, we would ask to open our luggageants and check, we would be very dissatisfied and even more indignation than now when we click on the Brexit. Secondly. On interests in the context of Brexit. There is now a clear indication of these interests. Of course, we are still waiting for a specific position for Britain at the moment. We have heard, as I mentioned in my speech, Prime Minister Mee, say that Britain is leaving the single market and is ready to start negotiations on a trade agreement. However, our interests at the present stage are clearly defined. I would like to remind you once again: first of all, close (as close as possible!) and constructive economic and trade links (for example, our woodworking industry is very interested in continuing to trade with the United Kingdom as it is at present). Maximum provision should be made for the status quo for our citizens who are currently living and working in Great Britain, and it is, in fact, the largest Diaspora outside Latvia. I have spoken to my British colleagues about this, by our Prime Minister, by the President of Latvia during his visit to Britain, and I again have a visit to Britain at the beginning of February, and we will continue to work on this issue, both in the negotiations with the United Kingdom and in the formulation of the common mandate of the European Union. Of course, British ministers themselves say: "When we leave the European Union, we remain in Europe, and it is in our interest that our stay in Europe has a specific dimension of security, foreign policy and defence, so that Britain continues to cooperate with the European Union in a common policy." About Estonia and the fact that the foreign service is guilty that our entrepreneurs are moving to Estonia because there is a better environment for business – I do not want to comment at all, because the foreign service cannot prevent any business from leaving. But I clearly mentioned in my speech – we have to do this, and I think we are doing a lot, and now the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Economics and the Prime Minister are working on the new tax policy. We understand our homework. And, of course, about Russia. I am no longer surprised by the fact that I have already heard such statements that almost Latvia is the one that has caused the occupation of Crimea, has made a little war in Ukraine and has started, so to speak, all these turbulences. For, you see, I did not at any time hear from the honorable representative of the SASKANI any word that would condemn the illegal occupation of Crimea, condemn Russian aggression or actions in Ukraine. But, of course, a great deal has been emphasised, let us say, the issue of sanctions. But also in this respect... Well, I'm sorry, but Latvia has now only received EUR 24 million from dairy farmers from the European Union. We are continuing to work to mitigate the consequences of these sanctions. But these are sanctions imposed by Russia and not by the European Union. In fact, our vegetable and fruit producers also have similar compensation mechanisms. So, I think, if we're talking about it, we're looking at the whole picture! I think that everything that has been done now in the context of the common European foreign policy has helped, if not to put an end to this crisis, at least to halt its further development. And our position... and here I can reply in part to Mr Kola and also to the Speaker of the Saeima... will be very clear. We believe that the European common foreign policy, whatever decisions are taken by others outside the European Union, should be directed towards the implementation of the Minsk agreement, and only then can we talk about appropriate sanctions. About China. I agree - and I have already said this - that we need to work on a better single offer in the area of transit and logistics, which must be integrated. In my opinion, Prime Minister, Minister for Transport, Minister for the Economy... our respective capital companies, both in preparation for the 16+1 summit and now after the 16+1 summit, have done a very great job. There are really some things that need to be worked on. In terms of tariffs, we need to be more competitive, for example, about Lithuania and Estonia. We have made three things clear that we want to do in cooperation with China. What more? Transit, tourism and also... of course, we want closer cooperation on matters relating to direct air communications, so in fact, the environment that promotes our cooperation. For specific things. Well, unfortunately, it is not as you say again, Mr Potapkin! Cooperation – very good cooperation! – with the Ministry of Agriculture, 12 milk processing and 33 processing companies already have access to the Chinese market. And here I must say very much thanks to my colleagues from the Food and Veterinary Service and the Ministry of Agriculture, who, in cooperation with the Embassy and the LIAA, have done a great deal of work because there were quite a lot of different obstacles. And it's good to have more than one gendarm in the world now. You know from history, Mr Potapkin, what was called the European Gendarism in the 19th century! It was the Russian car Nikolai I. I think it is not so good to talk about Gendarm in the 21st century. Let us perhaps see that we all want to live in a civilized community. Mr. Cole, thank you very much for your remarks. Indeed, I am delighted with the very constructive and balanced report, which contains both praises and criticisms. On a long-term perspective, we must be debating every year from this platform. I think we can all agree: the three big tasks and cooperation with the Diaspora are the main tasks that need to be done. But we have, of course, chosen this format – the annual report, the format of the annual debate – in order to respond adequately to changes that are indeed rapid in the world. For groups. I do not really want to accept that we are avoiding groups. Our position is very clear: we are interested in groups such as the Nordic countries' cooperation, or community, which cooperate with the countries of Visegrad and Benelux where our common interests are. But we believe that these groups work in accordance with the principles of the European Union. What concerns us and why we point out that we need to be careful when we make these groups... You remember that two days after the Brexit, after the referendum, suddenly a group of founding countries was convened in Berlin, suddenly some strange steps were taken, attempts were made to prepare the soil for groups of non-founding countries... And such divisions are becoming dangerous, because they are no longer regional, they are already becoming something more. It's about migration. However, I do not want to agree that this is only about Syria. I think we are writing quite a lot about North Africa, including what is being done. In this respect, we have, of course, talked a lot about this in the European Commission, and this year we will continue to work on Latvia's common position in the light of the reform of the Dublin Regulation and also in the light of what is happening in cooperation with third countries. And yes, I agree: we are now working actively with the Ministry of Defence to strengthen NATO's presence in the Baltic Sea region, as in the Baltic States on land. This is not an easy process. As always, it requires a long, patient diplomatic and military work. But this process is going on. Mrs. Silver! I find with horror and despair that you have obviously mixed my report with my work calendar by looking at the Ministry's website. But if necessary, I can send you a separate document. This report does not describe my visits and what I met, what I ate and where I ate. This report sets out what our strategic partners are and what our cooperation partners are. But, if necessary, I am certainly ready to discuss with you, because your speech has also been better than in the previous two years, where you have always compared this report with half of your work, as with Class 1. Now we've got to the planner... At the same time, I would like to say that we have really worked quite a lot together with the Ministry of Justice. For, you know, the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not in distribution: the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is closely linked to other public authorities, implementing the responsibilities of the Saeima and the government declaration. The Government Declaration defines Latvia's foreign policy, and the Saeima Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Minors of Latvian Citizens abroad has certain tasks that are fulfilled. And the embassies, together with their colleagues in the Ministry of Justice, which is the institution responsible for the European Union, have done a great deal to defend the rights of our children where this is actually justified. So, of course, we can still debate a lot here and there is a lot of criticism. What would I perhaps like to hear more from my colleagues in the discussions? Of course, it can always be said that it is bad. It can always be said that it is necessary to define the interests of Latvia. But it would be more valuable for us all here if you came with your offer: what is Latvia's interest and what should be done. Because this is the simplest element in the game – to say, “Everything is bad, nothing is good,” without offering your own solutions. That's why we already have this debate, so that together we – the Saeima, the government, the President of Latvia, as well as all the interested partners – will discuss, challenge and define in mutually constructive atmosphere what should be done this year, but what – in the long term. That's enough for this moment. I look forward with interest to the next relevant reports and rapporteurs, and then I will be ready to come back to the table. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U51	Thank the Minister. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U52	January 7, 2015. France, Ile-de-France: 17 people killed, 20 injured. 13 November 2015. France, Paris - 130 killed, 368 injured. March 22, 2016. Belgium, Brussels, 32 killed, 340 injured. 14 July 2016. France, Nice, – 86 killed, 434 injured. 19 December 2016. Germany, Berlin – 12 killed, 49 injured. Dear colleagues, I have only named the biggest terrorists who have shocked the countries of the European Union over the last two years; the total number of terrorists is much higher. The profile of terrorists is identical: immigrants or their descendants from Africa and the Middle East who have lived in Europe and have received social benefits from the Member States of the European Union. Immigrants from Africa and the Middle East, to whom Europeans have given an opportunity to live in Europe, have declared the so-called 'holy war' against Europeans themselves: the war against women and children, the war against honest, peaceful citizens who work and obey the laws. Thanks to immigration supporters, Europeans cannot feel secure. On the streets of many European cities, security forces are patrolling in full combat equipment. In this situation, it must be recognised that mass immigration brings enormous problems to itself: intolerance to European lifestyles, the rule of law, freedom, democracy and Christianity. Mass immigration leads to an increase in crime and a clear disregard of laws, murders and terrorists. Therefore, we must not allow an even greater bar to enter the European Union. It is necessary to strengthen the external borders and send back most of the migrants. If Merkel, Juncker and all their supporters do not understand it in the near future, then it may be too late. In these circumstances, I do not see any arguments as to why Latvia should create a new problem for itself when receiving immigrants. Yes, immigrants, not war refugees! Because if they were true war refugees, then... Why are they fleeing from the safe country of Latvia to another, richer European country just after they arrived in Latvia? In addition, Latvia is paying far too much for it. Do you think it is appropriate that the country spends around EUR 3000 on the relocation of each person from Turkey to Latvia? After their arrival, many more thousands are spent to provide interpreters, support staff, accommodations and allowances to the “fine guests”. Can Latvia afford to be so anointed with money? Would it not be better to direct this money to the needs of our own people? However, if Latvia wants to help military refugees, then it would be better to channel this money, for example, to the Lebanese refugee centres, where the cost of the maintenance of one refugee per year is just under 3,000 euros. They would have the opportunity to live close to their country of origin, in a familiar environment. Instead of addressing the problem in a particular region of the world, this problem is being transferred to Europe by individual politicians. However, everything can be different. It must be recognised that the decisions taken so far have been wrong, including the decision to accept 776 asylum seekers in Latvia. The Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers should change state policy on this issue and try to change it also in the overall context of the European Union. Honourable Members! We also need to talk about external security challenges. The main security challenge for our region is the Russian Federation with its aggressive foreign policy. The National Association has pointed to this long before Russia invaded and occupied certain regions of Ukraine. We are referring to this, too, right now. Russia will not change its aggressive foreign policy until it leaves its imperialist ambitions. This year there will be military training “Zapad 2017” organised by Russia, with the participation of more than 100,000 soldiers. The risk is that this training will take place in the territory of Belarus – in the immediate vicinity of the Suvalku corridor, which is important for the protection of the Baltic States. However, other countries in the region must also be vigilant, as such extensive training poses security risks to the region as a whole. Unfortunately, during this year pro-Russian forces can reach power in several European countries, so the ability of the Baltic States to build close cooperation with the USA, Canada, the Nordic European countries, including the United Kingdom, and also with the Baltic and Black Sea countries, is becoming particularly important to ensure the security and economic development of the Baltic States. It should be noted that in 2018, the Baltic and Black Sea countries will be those NATO countries which will contribute at least two per cent to the protection of gross domestic product. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Romania will have fulfilled their commitments with the United States, Great Britain and Greece. The countries of our region are aware of the threat posed by the Russian Federation and we understand that it is difficult for an individual country to resist Russian attacks, whether it be a disinformation campaign, political pressure, cyber attacks or military attacks against its neighbour. In order to counteract these threats, our countries in the region must establish close cooperation among themselves, including by inviting Ukraine. Such cooperation not only strengthens our security but creates new opportunities for economic development. For example, China already has cooperation with the Baltic and Black Sea region as a whole. I would like to emphasise that we must put an end to fragmentation and develop a common policy that is in line with the interests of our countries in the region. At present, unity is not a choice between allies; it is a necessity. In conclusion, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has restored to reality over the last two years. At this time, a great deal has been done to strengthen Latvia's external security, and I can only welcome this. It also deserves recognition for its pragmatic approach to the Brexit and US Presidential elections. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs deserves recognition for finally being able to make it clear that the European Union must be a union of sovereign national states. I hope that in future, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be able to change its attitude itself and bring Europe's colleagues to mind, convinced that a different solution to the problem of migration needs to be found. I hope that the Ministry will take concrete steps to strengthen closer cooperation with the Baltic and Black Sea countries and, in particular, with the European superstate Poland, which is the only link between the Baltic States and the rest of Europe. I wish this year were as peaceful as possible and we could expect the next year in a safer world! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U53	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U54	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Andris Bērziņš, Boris Cilevičs, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Rihards Eigims, Ritvars Jansons... yes, Nelli Kleinberga, Andrejs Clementyevs, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Alexei Lukaskovs, Roman Mežeckis, Romanas Naudiņš... is, Vladimir Nikonovs, Sergey Potapkins, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Trupovnieks, Juris Vectirāns and Mihail Zemļinskis... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U55	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U56	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. On the agenda, ‘Annual report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the progress made and the planned activities of the country’s foreign policy and of the European Union’. We are continuing the debate. The name is Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U57	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members of the Saeima Bureau! Dear Members and Members, Mr. Foreign Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Rinkēvičs, for his comprehensive report on the country's foreign policy and the European Union's expectations in 2016. At the start of my speech, I would like to say that, as Minister for Economic Affairs, Latvia's foreign policy is often more pragmatic than that of today's discussion. For me, it is often the export of timber to the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, the export of cereals to the Netherlands, Algeria, Saudi Arabia and Spain, the export of medicines to Lithuania, Russia, Uzbekistan and Estonia, the provision of tourism services to tourists from Russia, Lithuania and Germany, transport and logistics services to customers from Russia and Belarus, the export of IT services to Sweden, Finland, Denmark and many other countries. In 2016, goods and services from Latvia in total were traded for more than 200 countries in the world. If we look at economic developments globally, we see that in Latvia they are often determined not only by internal processes, which are often very controversial, but also by trends in global markets. And I want to say, as an economic minister, that this year more than ever economic growth in Latvia will depend on three extremely important factors. The first is that of international security, which I believe is an extremely important guarantee of sustainable growth. The second is our ability to ensure Latvia's competitiveness in international markets. And the third is our ability to ensure a dynamic economic transformation towards high added value. Honourable Members! Security and stability in the world – and especially in our and neighbouring regions – are factors that have a clear impact on Latvia's economic growth. Crisises, migration and conflict are no longer myths; it is a reality. Uncertainty has become a key sign of the global economic development situation. The European Union is also facing major changes. Last year, the outcome of the UK referendum has raised the issue of the future of the European Union. The elections to be held this year in Germany, France and the Netherlands can also bring political and economic change. A united and stable European Union is very important for Latvia. This year, we will have to work actively with the European Commission not only on developing new economic conditions for further cooperation with the United Kingdom, but also on proving that the European Union's single market is not a stage and its principles are capable of bringing real benefits to our exporters of goods and services. Let us work to help implement the priorities of the Juncker Commission, which include growth, the digital single market and migration. On this background, closer cooperation in the Baltic-Nordic region has become more important. Therefore, this year we plan to launch more active experience exchange and economic integration projects on issues of productivity, innovation, start-up ecosystems, knowledge transfer, as well as industry, construction and tourism. At the same time, let us maintain and continue an active dialogue on common issues of single market growth, socio-economic and energy security. As I said, uncertainty is the main word that currently characterises the global economic environment. Small economies like Latvia are very important to keep a close eye on developments in the world, but do not allow panic and convincingly implement their development plans. Honourable Members! For years, Latvia's energy security issues have been among its priorities. We have addressed these issues at both regional and European level. In 2017, we will finally welcome the planned opening of the natural gas market. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) This issue is a matter of priority at both national and regional level. The successful completion of this task will allow the Baltic States and Finland to continue their work on the creation of a free market for natural gas, which in turn will optimise the functioning of the natural gas market, increase competition between natural gas dealers and increase the quality of service provision, as well as align gas prices with European level market prices. In 2017, further discussions on the impact of Nordstream II natural gas pipeline project on energy security and risks across the European Union's economic space should be held. In the electricity sector, however, energy security promotion should continue to be discussed on the optimal solution in the project, which provides for the interruption of the synchronous operation of the energy systems of the Baltic States with the Russian energy system and subsequent integration of the energy systems of the Baltic States and the start of synchronous operation with the energy system of the Western European countries. It is essential to ensure a balance between costs and benefits for the Latvian economy in the implementation of this project. At the same time, energy security can be strengthened by supporting greater use of indigenous energy sources and promoting more efficient energy consumption. In this respect, it is necessary to set Latvia's vision on the goals by 2030 within the framework of the European Union's discussions in 2017. In 2017, it is planned to define Latvia's position on the legislative package. Honourable Members! The second, in my opinion, is the most important factor in Latvia's economic growth, as I said, is our external competitiveness. Low demand on external markets has had a negative impact on our export dynamics in recent years. Although the Latvian economy has become more diversified not only in the structure of goods exports but also in the structure of export partners, the percentage of exports to GDP has gradually decreased. Our country's expansion of export opportunities is the most important condition for growth. In the first three quarters of 2016, we have exported goods and services to almost all markets in the world. In 2017, we will continue to help our companies to strengthen their traditional markets in Lithuania, Estonia, Russia, the United Kingdom and Germany, as well as non-traditional markets in the Arab countries and the Far East. With the care of the Latvian Investment and Development Agency, Latvia's days in Belarus and China were organised in 2016, as well as business forums (the central event of the year was the well-known business meeting of 16+1 businessmen from Central and Eastern European countries), as well as national stands at 25 international exhibitions in both the closest and distant countries, demonstrating convincingly the potential of various sectors and the range of Latvian products and services. Our most important target markets are Germany, Great Britain, United Arab Emirates, Poland, France, USA, China, Japan, Singapore, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Belarus and so on. The sectors with which we are proud are the food industry, woodworking and construction industry, engineering, chemical industry, information technology services, printing, furniture industry, interior design and interior design. Finally, I would like to touch on those challenges that I think would be important this year. It is no secret that in the era of rapid technological development, the advantages of Latvian state and business competitiveness will in future depend on the ability to use the latest technologies, develop innovations and new products. However, this requires moving towards a new, innovative 21st century economic model. The Latvian economy must be able to compete – and not only with the quality of the business environment, but also with the development of innovations. Therefore, it is very important to continue working systematically towards the goals set in the government declaration in 2017 – export and investment stimulation, productivity growth and human capital development. Investment is needed. Without positive investment dynamics, we cannot expect faster growth. Investment must grow in technology and equipment, as well as in intellectual capital and knowledge. Since 2010, the average investment growth has been 2.5 per cent per year. That is not enough. Investment in Latvia must therefore grow much faster in the medium term so that we achieve the planned GDP growth. 2016 has passed the design of new business models. We have adopted the Law on New Enterprises and have supported the development of the eco-system of new enterprises. It should be noted that new companies in Latvia have already attracted more than 108 million euro investments and their ecosystem development is an important step towards promoting technologies and innovations, so that Latvia becomes a starting-up choice No.1 in the Baltics. There is no shortage of things in Latvia to be proud of and to show ourselves internationally. We are one of the greenest, fastest growing and most culturally rich countries in the European Union. Our path to today's achievements has been rich and unforgettable. I believe that to date, we will be able to capture many other achievements for innovative products. If we are talking about the issues that have been mentioned here today and which the Foreign Minister has recommended to me to speak, then the opening of the LIAA representation in America should be mentioned; we are planning to do so at last this year. We plan to open this office, most probably closer to Silicon Valley, as proposed by several Latvian start-up companies, because there would be their interests. We are talking about strengthening cooperation between institutions such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Latvian Institute, and this is a remarkable advice, even though we can say that there is rather close cooperation between these institutions. Finally, I would like to say that we will successfully continue to work on major business reforms that will increase the competitiveness of Latvian entrepreneurs. If we look at the results of 2016 in the Latvian economy, then we see that the year is to be seen as moderate in terms of GDP growth. With regard to GDP growth planned for 2017, we see that it is realistic to reach 3.5 percent. And we also see that it is realistic to achieve an export increase of at least three per cent and that next year the expected 8.6% increase in investment, which is included in the development budget, is also real. So thank you for your attention. The Ministry of Economics is rather optimistic about external economic policy this year. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U58	Thank the Minister. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U59	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Excellency! Colleagues! Thinking about the year 2016 in Latvia's foreign policy, there is a lack of tolerance, a failure to respect the diversity of opinions and a lack of respect for decisions made by the people. Not Latvian people, thank God, but other people. The many mentioned global challenges – the Brexit and the US Presidential elections – surprised the elites of Latvia, and this was evident in the first reactions that followed these messages. Unbelieving: “Are you sure?” The deny: “No, it can’t be!” Continued course: “The decision is stupid, unnecessary, inappropriate.” Dismissal and condemnation of the people's vote. The ruling politicians of Latvia clearly showed their true face and rushed to seduce those who dared to vote for decisions in other countries that seemed wrong, unreasonable, unnecessary, stupid, stupid. And the part of the people who voted in favour of Brexit or Donald Trump was called unreasonable, silly, low-educated and incomprehensible. There were also calls to ignore these people's decisions and to decide, instead of political people, "better" than their own, because they do not understand anything. Colleagues! In this way you made Latvia the country mentioned by Mr. Rinkēvičs in his speech – where coalition denies other nations the right to choose their destiny. And this is how the “best traditions” of the Soviet Union are repeated, within which the political elite is the wisest and able to make “the right” and “the best” decisions in place and on behalf of the people. This is reinforced by the criticism from this troupe that decisions taken by the coalition should not be criticised, coalition ministers should not be called upon to take political responsibility and the use of state budget funds allocated for celebrations should not be questioned, because all this is contrary to Latvia's interests. Elite knows better, so the shoulders will not have to criticise it and question it or even assess and analyse it. It is easy for all external and internal burdens to blame for the “external enemy” because there is no need to seek and solve internal problems. The Latvian elite seems to have found such an enemy in the person of the “great neighbour” of Latvia, who as if organises, directs and influences such global processes as elections in major countries – America, most probably Germany, France and the Netherlands. Well then, on this background elections and internal processes in Latvia are probably nothing like that. Therefore, everything that is not pleasant to the coalition can be safely written off to the negative and harmful impact of the Latvian neighbour. The Foreign Minister said that we were ready to cooperate with the new US administration and Congress. Who is specifically prepared for this cooperation? Is it really possible, in diplomacy, as in Latvian politics, to shoot behind the back and llamate, but to smile and flatten in the eyes? Do you really think that the United States has such a insignificant partner to afford such experiments? Therefore, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to work on reducing the itching in the public space of Latvia and increasing respect not only for the political elite of Latvia, but also for the legally elected leaders of foreign countries. If you draw yourself into the well from which all of us will have to drink later, don't look again for those who are guilty to see that this well's water isn't to be used! If you are not a validly elected leader of another country, do not be surprised that it will be difficult to build relations with that country and its leader! One of the five foreign policy priorities of 2017 is to support and maintain close ties with people abroad. Those are beautiful words. What, though, is the real attitude? Our citizens are still perceived abroad, including Britain, as "his" and not as "ours". And when they come to visit their relatives, friends, or maybe to look for work in Latvia, we ask them for money, because they come here with a vehicle registered abroad. Guests, citizens of other countries who are travelling to visit Latvia's beautiful places do not require such money. It's hypocrisy! Mr. Rinkēvičs, you spoke like a prophet. The end of the world will not be, nor will war be. Pleasant news for 2017. But maybe you can reconcile your visions with other senior officials, because the Speaker of the Saeima warned us of possible rapid changes, but the Head of the National Security Commission expressed concern about various types of attacks, their prevention and rejection. Perhaps also share your prophetic knowledge with the Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission so that you do not get the kind of reactions that happened to the world events in 2016. We have also talked a lot about the European Union. Of course, Latvia's membership of the European Union and the OECD is important for achieving Latvia's objectives. It is important to achieve goals, not to aim in itself. It's a tool, it's an instrument. Accession to these organisations was a good decision. Latvia has acquired a strong and effective tool for its economic and social growth. However, like any instrument, we can either use or not use it, use it effectively or exploit it inefficiently, use it in accordance with its purpose or the contrary. And by adding gratitude to the politicians who have brought Latvia into them, I would also like to see responsibility and accountability next to us as to whether we have used this instrument and how we have used it, whether this instrument has been enough in our hands and whether the objectives for which this instrument was obtained have really been achieved. The cooperation between Latvia and Canada and the conclusion of an economic and trade agreement (CETA) has suddenly become so important! I was waiting for Mr Asheraden to come here here and I was expecting but interesting that he did not mention the CETA Treaty. No word was given about the contract with Canada! He didn't mention a single word! Is that because only the Foreign Minister thinks that this Treaty is important for the Latvian economy, but the Minister for Economics does not think so at all? Is that perhaps because there have not really been any domestic work that had to be done before this contract was concluded? In particular, Latvian entrepreneurs are not ready to offer the volume of products that meet the Canadian demand, because Latvian politicians have not been able to agree with Latvia's neighbours on joint exports to Canada. Then the question arises: exactly what benefit would Latvia expect from such a contract? I understand that in the foreign policy report, Mr Rinkēvičs continues his prophetic role by saying that there will be a benefit. We just have to believe it. Colleagues! In conclusion, I would like to express my hope that in the 2017 foreign policy report, we will all see not only a list of instruments or, as Mrs Silver said, a calendar by the Minister, but also the use of these instruments and their result for this application, which will make Latvia even more beautiful, more convincing and even brighter in Europe and the world. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U60	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U61	Dear President, Honourable Members! Prime Ministers! I think that thanks and compliments have already been expressed and we can begin to speak seriously. Here we have already mentioned two major events that will affect the current and future political situation not only in Latvia but also in the European Union. But I think it's just as important to conclude that the world will change irreversibly, and the British newspaper The Guardian has formulated it most precisely. I quote: “The collapse of the USSR shows us that in a few years we can collapse like stable systems.” What has happened? I quote again – it turns out (your miracle!) : "The Community tradition of succession, identity proves to be more important than freedom and self-determination of an individual. The world will never ever be globalised liberal as it has been." Liberal global order... And another aspect mentioned by economic publicist Edward Lucas, that we live in a post-NATO era, not in the NATO age. It's not bad, it's a fact finding. There's no cold war. In fact, the post-NATO situation occurred when France started building Mistral's warships for Russia. It was already a warning that something regionally in these international organisations is different from what we hoped for. International trade agreements are losing their meaning and international organisations are losing their weight as well. This is demonstrated not only by the recent US President's orders to withdraw from the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement and from the TTP, but also by the recently signed US President's order to cut funding for the United Nations. It is a signal that we need to rely more on our own efforts, on regional cooperation and to hope less for international organisations. What, then, was so bad in these international trade agreements? As if everything was very beautiful, but (I quote the same thing again in The Guardian): “These treaties provided for the right of international corporations to complain to states about the unfavourable conditions of corporations and about the introduction of these unfavourable conditions, severely limiting national self-determination.” I think if we also resume work on the Transatlantic Trade Agreement, there will be no such point. In any case, if there is one, no parliament in the European Union will harmonise it. Better regulation of global corporations and tax policies that reduce inequality are our future. We know that the large international corporations in the European Union have avoided taxation. The euro area. Again, Brexit has been mentioned. But I really don't know, and I think we can't give an assessment in about six and seven months, either... I am only surprised (and perhaps next year we will be able to analyse it more seriously) by the extremely successful economic situation, which is in contrast to the pessimistic forecasts. I wrote here some data due to the drop in the pounds rate. Britain has reached its largest agricultural exports: in the past six months agricultural exports have increased by 13 percent. Car manufacturing has reached the highest level in the last five years and the lowest level of unemployment all the time. So, psychologically, I should have been the other way around. Something doesn't come together. Negotiations will be difficult with Britain. Who will find it difficult? Do you know that Germany sells its most of its cars in Great Britain (from European Union countries)? So its negotiations, I think, will not be so difficult, and a mutually beneficial trade agreement will already be concluded. I am embarrassed by one another when it comes to the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government, and also about our activities. Why is Latvia's gross domestic product only one or two per cent, if we know that, in order to compare to the European Union average, we need four to five per cent of GDP growth every year? We looked at another... Well, you can also see the European Commission's last year and last year's report. And there are good tables: averages for the euro area year after year are worse than averages for the European Union. Why is the economic situation of Greece, Spain, Portugal and, more recently, Italy and France deteriorating rapidly in the euro area? Why can the present thirty-year-olds, not only in the European Union but also in the United States, not achieve the level of income that their parents had in the 1980s? For the first time since World War II, this income level is falling... And to some extent it also provides an answer to why the Republicans of the United States have won the Democrats. Why is the euro area pulling down, but why is Britain, Sweden and Poland pulling up those European Union averages? We were told that it was the euro area that would be the one that would hugely increase the number of investments in Latvia. I think the best example for us is Poland, which is right here. Last year Latvian exports of agricultural products to Poland were 90 million euros, while Polish exports to Latvia or our imports were three times – almost three times! – bigger – around 260 million euros. And what's the difference? Some think because they have reduced VAT. But in fact, you see, we are in an extremely unequal situation. The Poles have a zloty. During the crisis, Poles slightly reduce their value, slow down their products abroad and raise the prices of imported goods. And we cannot compete with them. Of course, Latvia had a much better situation than Poland. Okay. This is when it comes to the European Union. Talking about relations with the United States – what is the main threat to Latvia? Syria? Russia? I think the main threat is tactical weapons... Tactical nuclear weapons in Russia. I think it is very good that the President of the United States has seen this and said that the first and most important task is to agree with Russia on a tactical core... in general on the reduction of nuclear weapons, including tactical nuclear weapons. Because the use of these weapons could destroy Latvia at once. In the last report, the Foreign Minister talked a lot about Syria, but this time he was silent. It is not clear to me that Syrian refugees are in Europe, but negotiations are taking place in Astana, where the European Union is not present as observers in the United States. How can this be explained? That Turkey, Iran and Russia are those who have arranged a ceasefire in Syria, which is not ideal, is perhaps not even good, but are incomparably better than war. Turkey, Iran and Russia. So it is a good sign for regional forces and regional layouts, and in the future they will obviously have a greater role than international organisations. Israel, which is also a potential source of conflict, has not been mentioned here, namely Israel's relations with the Palestinians, as the UN Security Council resolutions are constantly being ignored. I don't see anything good there in the future either. And what can we do? We need to believe more in ourselves. Minister! Was the fact that Latvian diplomats in Brussels, all as one, gave up the Latvian school for their children and preferred to learn French (although they had the opportunity to speak and had the opportunity to learn Latvian, but they refused to do so!) Does it set an example for others that we believe in our country? Minister, would it not be appropriate to withdraw these diplomats and move them to Central Asia? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. And the last one. In every case, I think, when talking about the euro area, maybe we should find an early Latvian Bank Board that will be able to assess the situation and, if necessary, return to its currency in the future. Here was mentioned as a regional or mini-NATO – Nordic, Polish and Baltic countries. It's a great, good project, but the problem is Finland. You know that the Finns are very reserved. When the Saeima delegation visited Finland before joining NATO, we were warmly advised not to do so in order not to damage relations. I believe that this is a job that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should do – to convince the Finnishs to become more active in connection, as Sweden and the other Nordic countries do. Finland is very reserved on this issue. And... I would, however, recommend that some former politicians should not miss the opportunity to remain silent, as they should have been before the invasion in Iraq. And now we should do this when we talk about the new US administration. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U62	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U63	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Ministers, Dear colleagues, This foreign policy report describes the processes in the world today quite well and outlines Latvia's role in them. Syria, Da' esh, climate change – all of these are very serious problems that we participate in – as far as possible, of course, we too. Since Latvia is not a big country, our role in solving these issues is, of course, not too great, because national unions, military blocks and superpowers solve many global problems by their own mind and sometimes even in our place, which is not always bad, because often makes life easier for Latvian diplomats when they have to formulate their position. But there are things that nobody else will solve instead of Latvia, instead of Latvian diplomats. It is a whole series of specific issues that relate only to the interests of Latvian and Latvian citizens. One such issue is the historical and cultural values of Latvia, which were exported to Russia by the occupation power of the USSR and which Russia does not want to give us. It is about several dozen original films taken during the Latvian Free State, including the first Latvian sound film, ethnographic films and film chronics taken in 1934. From the perspective of Latvian culture and Latvian identity, these materials have a huge value, as they show that life and culture in Latvia did not start only with 1940, as those who exported these films wanted, and obviously those who are hiding them in Russia today. Thousands of entities were also exported from museums and archives to Russia, including a significant part of the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia, as well as numerous cases of the archives of the oppressed Latvian citizens. Two years ago, I already drew attention to this issue in the foreign policy debate. Unfortunately, neither at that time nor now did it appear in the foreign policy report. However, this is an important issue for us, and I stress once again that no one else will bring it up to date and no one else will solve it instead of us. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs put this issue on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Commission of Latvia and Russia. Latvia informed Russia that it wanted to get back its cultural and historical values. Russia, in turn, stated that it would not return. And although many years have passed before this issue is formally dealt with, unfortunately there is no result and obviously there will be no result if we do it as before. Therefore, I call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this year and next year, in preparation for the centenary of Latvia, to define this issue as one of the priorities and to address it accordingly. If bilateral negotiations between Latvia and Russia do not produce results, it may be more fruitful to look at this issue in the context of the European Union and Russia. However, in order for this to happen, proactive action on the part of Latvia is needed. I also wish Latvian diplomats this in the new year. Not only to speak with the common position of the EU, but to actively raise issues important to us – Latvia – on the EU agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U64	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U65	Ladies and gentlemen, Excellency! Mr. High Minister. I would like to thank you, Minister, for having listened to my request and included in your report a paragraph on the protection of children of Latvian citizens abroad. A declaration on the protection of the rights of Latvian minors abroad is an important document, it is a statement by the Saeima addressed to both citizens to encourage them and abroad that Latvia cares for the interests of its people and is ready to do so... it has a duty to fight for the protection of the rights of its citizens. However, the implementation of the declaration is also an important work for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is still much to be done in this regard (both in informing parents and representing Latvia's interests on the question of taking over jurisdiction of cases to Latvia), so I very much hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actively acting in this regard. And I hope that the protection of children's rights abroad will become a priority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia this year and that next year we will hear about the next steps. It is a pity, of course, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not claim to be forced adopted children from Latvia, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs just did when joining the Latvian fishing vessel and its crew. But there is great hope that Latvia will not lose its children in this way thanks to joint work. Continuing on Latvia's interest, I cannot fail to mention the issue that Mrs Betes has already mentioned and on which we, as several Members of the Saeima, have taken an interest and discussed with you. In particular, it is the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. Today, it is on the Saeima's agenda. Together with several Members of the Saeima – Inguns Silver, Artus Neighbours, Ringolds Balodi, Arvīds Platopera, Silvijs Šifs and Aivars Meija – we have asked you a whole series of Members about the possible impact of this agreement on the economy, about public information and protection of Latvia's interests in the context of this agreement. To conclude, it became clear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not carry out a survey to find out the opinion of Latvian citizens. Your report states that Latvia supports this agreement is based only on positive votes of nine members of the Saeima Committee on European Affairs and support of the Cabinet of Ministers. There has also been no assessment of the impact of the agreement on the Latvian economy, and in your reply you have invited the Saeima to carry out such a study itself. I call on you, Minister, to be consistent and, when this agreement, after today's vote by the Saeima, is likely to end up in the records of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is likely that the Saeima's Committee on Foreign Affairs will be invited to carry out such a study. So please come forward with such a call. Also, Latvia's interests in this agreement have not been taken into account. Looking at the many statements and declarations attached to this agreement, there are concerns about Great Britain, Poland, Hungary and other countries. Latvia is not mentioned in this regard. It just looks like Latvia... that in Latvia everything is fine, Latvia everything is satisfied, there are no issues of concern and special interests or interpretation of the agreement. Here we are talking about a bunny in the bush, Mr. Rinkēvičs! Are we not the same blasphemy on this issue as you mentioned in your speech? Because in your reply to the Members, you did not know what Latvian interests the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has tried to protect in this regard and whether it has tried to do so at all. Since there is no Ministry of Commerce in Latvia and this sector or field needs to be represented for you, sometimes your remoteness from reality may interfere with Latvia's interests. Mr Rinkēvičs, you said that the European Union has compensated 24 million dairy farmers. But you could go to the dairy farmers and find out how they are doing, because the uncompensated losses for 2016 are 132,7 million! And by extending the sanctions until the end of 2017, in the 3.5-year period these losses will already be 233.5 million! I call on you, Mr Rinkēvičs, to go to the regions, to meet with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs directly and to gain an understanding of the things that have slipped past you – the high risk of unemployment, poor competitiveness, the problems of manufacturing industries. And maybe when we all act together in the real interests of Latvia, you will no longer have to say that Latvia and other countries are too small to exist separately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U66	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U67	Good afternoon for all those who still listen to this discussion! For those who do not listen, I do not blame anything, nor do I invite them to join. I understand you because, listening to this debate, I think of the words of the classical hero Vinnie Poeko. He said: “However, I like doing nothing best.” - “How do you do it?” – “It’s very simple! When I’m going to do it, someone usually asks me, “What do you think you’re going to do?” And I answered him, “Nothing!” Then I go and do it.” This is briefly about the substance of this debate. We are already having this debate this year, and I ask myself this year, but I do not get the answer: why is it foreign policy? Because we also have many other important areas to debate. Let us say why we do not have a debate about our education system, how to make our nations more creative, more susceptible? Why do we not have a discussion on how to put our healthcare system in order? Why do we not have such a discussion about how to make our country more innovative, our economy more productive? Perhaps because if we were to talk about it, someone would have to do it. But when we discuss foreign policy, it is very convenient: we can do nothing, and still the big things, all that we are discussing here will happen without our efforts. You know, listening to this conversation... Well, of course, we can continue the discussion. But, you know, if you look at it objectively, the men often talk to the beers, and their discussions are much more consistent and richer. There, at least people listen to each other and study what is said... ( Milestones.) And there's a rational step. I understand... I understand that it is accepted in foreign policy to speak with such smooth phrases, broad, beautiful wording, to say something about, although basically everything behind it is very specific. And what I would have wanted very much in this foreign policy debate is that we should continue to speak as it has been adopted in foreign policy, but to speak here very specifically. ( Milestones.) And with reference, Minister, to your call to talk about specific things, I can offer you what the Ministry of Economics could do. Because otherwise, when I read your report, let's say one of the things... you come with a proposal that we in Ukraine should focus on combating corruption. Well, agree that in a situation where we cannot elect the head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption ourselves for a long time, talk about how we will do it in Ukraine – well, it sounds a little weird. So if we come back closer to the ground, closer to our power, then the current things I see I will try to list at least a few to you (as long as I have time to do). I will start with the biggest, most global, because I understand that we like much more about big things, and I will end up with very small, very specific things that could be done. Recently, as we know, yesterday or yesterday, the government adopted a decision on rail electrification. A very important decision! These will be hundreds of millions of investments that will be invested in. It is very important for us that these investments are indeed effective so that we have the necessary return. This means that we already need to start thinking very seriously about loading. And it is very good that the Minister for Economics is sitting here too. This could be your synergy work. You can sit down and come with a concrete action plan – how do we think to attract these loads, how to increase, because one thing that you are talking about today about this China Forum “16+1”... Yes, very well, all the documents there are... But what happens next? What practical steps will we take? I invite you to focus on it and think about it. That is very important! And in this context, of course, our relationship with Belarus is very important to us. How do we get these cargoes going to Lithuania better come to us? And here immediately comes this eternal issue, which I would like to see resolved. It would really be such a real proof of the power of our foreign policy: it is the rails at the herring, between the border between Latvia and Lithuania. They have still been dismantled and have still not been restored. That's the thing we should do. Go on. If we look again on a wide scale, much is said about the fact that, yes, one of the important directions in foreign policy is to attract investment, promote exports and so on. I will not be talking about the fact that I would also like to see concrete steps here, but what we should do is another very important thing that we should do, however, in the light of the changes taking place in the world... It is about identifying information about how our country can become more innovative. What are these new directions? And in foreign policy, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs could be our nose that smells the new winds that will be, and it could help us to say that in time, too, in shaping our economic growth policy here. Because really a lot of things... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Žigāne: “You promised to speak specifically!” ) We are not drivers of global processes. But the Foreign Ministry could help us to feel these winds coming from the world's process drivers to understand how we can position ourselves in the world. And that's why I really agree with the idea that we are building our networks of embassies, not where it has been customary, in some cities where maybe it's logical and it's necessary for the big countries to have some kind of representation (let's say in New York, Washington), but... Really, it would be more important for us to have in Boston, where there is intelligence, where there is some kind of exchange of knowledge... This would be the most important thing – to really focus on the knowledge economy. And that means being not where the biggest money is currently in circulation, but where the most ideas are in circulation. Stay there. Go on. Analysis of free trade agreements. This is, however, a very important area. I understand that we have gone under the authority of the ideologies of globalisation, with the naive belief that it will really benefit us. But in reality... If you read it, you will study the history of the world economy, then you will see that all these free trade agreements... It has always been the case that those countries that are more developed economically are the beneficiaries of free trade agreements, while those that are less developed are ultimately lost. ( Internouncing call.) It has always been so, Mrs. Chiganese... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: Singapore! ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “Do, return the money!” ) Look at how they work with free trade agreements. Because it's very simple... If there were more time, I would explain to you why this is happening. And so analyse these contracts! One thing is benefits, the other is losses. You are talking about what these contracts are giving, but you should have looked at what we are losing when we conclude such contracts. It is usually the case that we are losing our growth potential. Yeah... Yes, we get to be able to meet our needs at the current level of growth, but we lose the opportunity to get to the highest levels because they are already occupied by the economically more developed country. These are the traps that usually fall in! Go on. Knowing what is waiting for us in the field of demographics and knowing the problems that are now emerging in the labour market would be very important... A very important thing where the Minister for Foreign Affairs could once again help with his foreign policy – we should think in good time how we can address these challenges, and I see that the export of education would be a very important thing, that is, the involvement of the "smart brain" in our country, building here, above all, such an education system so that they can be here, would be motivated to be here. With our network of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we could involve them more here. Go on. For our connection to the Diaspora. What I'd like to see... It is very good that there is again a Minister for Economics... What we should build gradually should be more aware of the economic potential, the potential of people abroad, and tools for dialogue with them. They could be primarily databases, mobile applications that would be very convenient to use for these people – they could be on their mobile phones, through which some information could be further flown, as well as getting some information from them, and finding out about their direction. If we are talking about safety, security, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could create the same application that could be used by our people travelling. We know that there is this opportunity if the data where people have gone is publicly available. So there could be a mobile application on your phone – one that a person flying somewhere can “buy”. Through this application he could always obtain some information in a particular region – what happens there, what happens if there are some safety risks there. He could follow it, not simply rely on having a text message about an emergency. But maybe then it might be too late... So such an application would be very useful for travelers. I'll take my five minutes more.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U68	Are there any objections to Members if Member Zarins brings together both speaking times? ( The utterances: “Let it speak! ” ) Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U69	This is what I am calling for: to do more small, practical things, rather than sit on this great wave of events and think that we are the ones who make it and talk about it. And, you know, we're very... Sometimes it happens quite ironically: if we show that we are somehow involved in these events, we sometimes try to run ahead and comment on them. And then very amusing things come, especially if we look at the latest political developments... Therefore, I would like to call, especially on our Ribentrampians, not to hesitate to comment on what is happening, and wait a little bit: perhaps, however, it turns out that it is completely different from what you think, especially with regard to the statements made by the new US administration, even if it is NATO itself. Perhaps the problem with why you are wrong is that there are two basically different thinking strategies – strong people and weak people. Where the beaker stops, the beaker starts to wake up, begins to make some schemes, protection blocks, the strong goes forward and exactly determines the situation and changes everything. And that's why completely different interpretations arise in the same situation. Even NATO itself. The words that Trump said should, in my opinion, be perceived quite differently. If you still took the context that he has said before, talking about the fact that he wants to see the Great America again... This means that for this purpose he will also need a strong NATO. And if he talks about NATO being an outdated entity, then most likely he talks about how to strengthen it and make it more relevant to existing challenges rather than how it is interpreted – that we will wait for the end of NATO block or any undesirable changes to ourselves. Go on. It is just as I really feel very strange about these hysterical expressions that, without God’s giving, the relations between America and Russia will begin to normalize. In my opinion, we will be the biggest beneficiaries if this is the case. The only losers in this situation will most likely be those who have used this hysteria to conceal some of their failings, as our power has usually done here. Because it is usually the case that all of this shouting has always been to cover up some of its omissions or some corruption schemes that will not now come to cover it any more. And here, to a very large extent, you can really refer to Kisinger's words about Russia at the time. That demonisation of Russia is not a policy, it is rather a lack of policy. And that is what we see as having shown so far, in my opinion. When I read this report, which mostly shows how Latvia is fighting for peace and democracy, and for the right order of things in the world, I would like to say, until the rails are restored to the herring, all these speeches will give you the feeling that it is more such an empty indignity, boasting of what someone else has done. So I want to go back to what Winnie Poe said. He said: “Sometimes the smallest thing can take the most place in your heart.” Mr. Foreign Minister! I would like to say that we should not be afraid that we really will take away small but certain things that we do ourselves. It's nothing that they take us a lot of resources, maybe a lot of our strength, but they will actually be the things that we need. And so I call on you not to be afraid and focus more on what we need. On the other hand, those things, those processes that are also moving in the right direction without our involvement, especially don't strain, so that more force remains for your own interests. I also call on you to focus on this and talk about very specific things that we can do, and try to do it. It's okay, it's going to be some little thing, but it's going to be ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U70	The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U71	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Indeed, it must be recognised that we have one foreign policy report, while foreign policy makers, implementers in our government are several and the foreign policy pursued is also different. And it depends on the media space where our foreign policy executives work accordingly. However, when analysing this foreign policy report prepared by the Latvian Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in general, it is clear that foreign policy performers are absolutely unable to analyse what is happening not only in the internal affairs of the country – Latvia, but also in the world as a whole. They are unable to achieve public support, the support of the whole Latvian society, the consensus of the whole society, and they are not even interested in the public opinion of the implemented foreign policy activities. In fact, in my view, the situation in foreign policy could be marked by one word – "stagnation". In particular, Latvia continues to engage in the internal political processes of other countries, and such actions have not been justified and reimbursed to Latvia. In this regard, I would like to highlight two things, or I think two precedents, that we have taught Britain how it should act and why it should not withdraw from the European Union and Latvia's unsuccessful participation in the US presidential election campaign. In my view, these two engagements are two huge foreign policy errors: participation in foreign internal policies and processes such as elections in other countries and the sharing of recommendations, barring. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not yet understood that the world is multipolar and that it is neither good nor bad, but that it is simply a fact. It must be noted that it needs to be met and that it needs to be understood. Not knowing the order of these cases, Latvia's foreign policy has lost itself. But, to be precise, it has not even found itself; it has made the country of Latvia clumsy – really at times clumsy! – a stopper for every event in the world. There has been a shameful failure in the United States of America's electoral process (Dep. L. Chigan: “When have we intervened?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This could be described by the comments made by two foreign policy officials – former President of the Republic of Latvia Vaira Vike-Freiberga and Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima Ojāra Ērika Kalniņa – in relation to those candidates who have participated in the US elections. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ; dep. V.Spolitis: “Total stupidity!” ) Such foreign policy steps in a situation where the Foreign Ministry is largely passively silent... and, in my view, to a large extent certain foreign policy actors do so in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... This should be a shame for the following reasons. Two weeks earlier, we all saw that a letter was published in the public space signed by a number of people recognised within the European Union, including Ms Vaira Vike-Freiberga and Mr Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, – a letter to the newly elected U.S. President Trump. In the letter these people – two people from Latvia! – has named itself Latvian decision-makers, i.e. decision-makers. I'm sorry, what decision makers are these two people? One, I'm sorry, you can't... order, according to the law, to bury him normally, and the other one. represents a political party with one of the lowest ratings in the country of Latvia, in addition to being a third player in the Latvian government coalition. In addition, they, both of these people, in this letter, point out that they both are eager to work with the newly elected U.S. President's administration. Work with the newly elected U.S. President's Administration! And then there's a question – to work with what? A person against whom he has actively participated in the US election campaign (democratic side) and both of whom have been called an incompetent populist, who is all around the selfishness and short-sightedness of their constituents and who has been called hypocritical or a flower from the meadow just freshly plucked or like this (Dep. L. Čigāne: “It’s already a joke!” ) that plays for bitterness, unfulfilled hopes and pain, and which Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, for example, has described as the way to chaos, whose claims have no basis, or which is the worst choice for America, the worst choice for Latvia and the worst choice for the world... ( Milestones.) This letter also gives Putin the floor, and they say that in fact the addressees are dreaming of the welfare of the United States. Then the question should also be asked at all: which country's citizens' obligations have been fulfilled by the signatories of this letter by a letter to Trump? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “It’s their rights, the foundation!” ) Well, in my opinion, it was not Latvia in this case. That was either Canada in one case or the representation of the US democrat side, respectively. Are they really the two people who tell us that they are foreign policy makers in Latvia, or the decision-maker in Latvia, confident that the person whose pre-election in the campaign they have called to the right and left with all kinds of words, this attitude towards themselves, this attitude from Latvia, will not be noticed? Moreover, already after the elections, the Latvians suddenly woke up their experience of the slave's soul seven hundred years ago... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L.Vigāne: “It’s enough to laugh!” ) is now running, bowing down and accordingly showing both disrespect for themselves and for the processes and statements they had previously addressed in the US presidential elections. What, then, is Latvia, in essence, after this letter? Indeed, Donald Trump could ask. I don't think we can get any good answer. In addition, two weeks after this letter, literally yesterday, Vaira Vike-Freiberga is beginning to publicly compare Trump – he has already surpassed Putin... likened the U.S. president to a rooster and a gorillas in the jungle, which suggests that we should also have a relationship with the U.S. That is our foreign policy as a whole. It doesn't have a vector, it's not independent. This foreign policy is based on different media spaces, on different electronics and is intended for consumption by different people. In the Latvian media space one is told, in the U.S. media space – the other, in the Russian media space is told in the third and in the Chinese media space – the fourth. Unfortunately, until now, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been able to focus specifically on a common position on very many issues. The special feature of the report is that “Latvia supports the promotion of stability in the region and cooperation in addressing terrorism, radicalisation and illegal migration. In order to address the causes of these problems, Latvia considers it important to promote economic reforms, creating a favourable business environment, education and youth employment in the EU's Southern Neighbourhood Region". I have a question: why do Latvia's foreign policy tasks include these activities in order to stabilise the situation in the southern neighbourhood of the European Union, but the government of the same method does not consider it possible to implement it here, on its own, in Latvia?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U72	Mr Elksniņš, your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U73	I'd ask you for another five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U74	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? And the objections? So there is no objection. We are continuing the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U75	It happens that the foreign policy implemented by the Latvian government and current, so to say, smart speeches differ significantly from real works here in Latvia. The Minister's report also speaks a lot about Latvia's issues of democracy and human rights on the agenda. Latvia, which has in fact abolished a democratic public participation instrument such as a referendum (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Do not lie!” ), in which criminal responsibility has been introduced for criticism of the ruling power or opposition to it, and which for 25 years is unable to resolve the issue of non-citizens, and who has decided not only to divide the population into Latvians or Russians, but also educators – loyal and disloyal, dare to say how hard it will participate in strengthening human rights. Indeed, it is a duality. And shame arises. It seems that Latvia has two foreign policies in view of these considerations that I have considered. I repeat: two foreign policy! One for internal consumption, the other for external use. And foreign policy-making images are diametrically opposite guidelines. Unfortunately, the Foreign Minister has so far failed to name any tangible contribution from his chaotic travel plan. Let's accept any contribution that would bring some minimal benefit to Latvia's transit traffic industry. The only thing that can be prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the new budget for Planet Traveller. And reports of missions are really binding so that... And then the list of sensitive documents should be extended in parallel. There is already a problem in our foreign reserve that there is no focus on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and therefore the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is cozy everywhere and without any connection. I will give you a concrete example of the relationship between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, let us say, the Ministry of Transport. When the Minister of Transport, with his efforts to increase cargo turnover in the ports of Latvia, arrives in a region criticised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in a country in which our Latvian Foreign Minister has intervened, he is like a lit up meadow. The rhetoric of the members of the government in the information space of Latvia and in the information space of Russia-China, from which we see possible cargo flow, possible recovery of the economy and thus the possibility of survival, varies considerably. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U76	Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U77	Dear Saeima! Indeed, it becomes interesting to come here and still answer a number of more questions that have been raised. Mrs Silver and Mr Kirštein also spoke about the transatlantic trade agreement and its future. I would like to say that this issue will be discussed in the upcoming consultations between the European Union and the US – when the new administration is fully in place. It would therefore be premature to consider whether negotiations will continue or not. If any party refuses to continue negotiations, then there will be no negotiations; if it agrees to continue, the matter will also remain on the agenda. I still believe that it would be in our interests, as well as in the US, to promote the development of free trade and to conclude such an agreement. Mrs Betes and Mr. Elksniņš (also Mr. Zarins, a little bit), if my memory does not contaminate, what I would like to call an extremely modern name was the alternative facts. Well, it is not that Latvian state officials – both the President, the Prime Minister, the Speaker of the Saeima and the Minister of Foreign Affairs – would have been happy in some internal political processes. That's the other way around! We have all made it clear that we respect the sovereign will of the people; we have clearly answered why we feel that Brexit is not good for Latvia. The question of the United States presidential elections is similar. I also see no contradiction in what I have said in my speech, written in the report and what Mrs Āboltiņa has said here or what Mr Kalniņš has said here. We are talking about the fact that there is no military attack, but we are all very well aware of all hybrid threats and threats. So let's not mix things together, either. The Canadian Treaty. To be honest, I am starting to get tired a little bit of this discussion. You have received answers both on October 19 and November 9. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not negotiate itself, because at that time it was a competence of the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Economics addressed and interviewed businessmen and, in fact, the desire and interest in this treaty is great. If so, I can, of course, read both letters with a loud voice and disprove them in more detail. But now we're not, colleagues, those who don't work very well with the facts. Mr Schnores referred to the negotiations on cultural and historical values. I can assure you once again that this issue is on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Commission. It is today that the leaders of the working groups responsible meet and in March there will be a meeting of the relevant working group in April. To say that it could be included in some way in the dialogue between the European Union and Russia, we cannot, because there is simply no dialogue between the European Union and Russia at the moment. So we will continue these efforts bilaterally. However, I think that this is a significant proposal: in the future, if the dialogue is to resume, the European Union may also be involved. Mrs Stepanenko, I have never said that Latvia is too small to exist separately. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Stepanenko: “This morning you said by radio!” ) But here must be a little connection to Fred. You think that Latvia is one that cannot in any way exist separately. As regards what Mr Kirštein said, I also believe that this is not the right thing to do, that the European Union is not taking part in the negotiations in Syria. But I also know that for the time being, the European Union should still agree internally so that it can be a united player. The impact of the euro area and the Brexit and all these relations may be better discussed with the finance ministers. I just want to call: let us be careful when operating with data! Firstly, Britain has not yet left the European Union. This will only happen in two years' time, and then we will see the real impact. Secondly, if we analyse the data, they are very different and contradictory. For example, statistics show that growth in the euro area would grow more this year... in the euro area jointly. And reforms also make a lot of sense... Mr Zarins, the fight against corruption in Ukraine is of great interest to us for a very simple reason: because we have a large number of entrepreneurs who have suffered at the moment and, in many cases, we cannot help in any way while there is a system like that. That is why it is our interest. I will not start by mentioning those banks, those companies with which we really have problems in those courts. Therefore, we are objectively prepared to work in this area. For the application. Well, I'm sorry, but I'm ready to give you advice after this sitting. We have been using the “Travel Safe” application, which you can download on your mobile and get all information. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan, dep. A.Loskutova and dep. O.E., Pleasure of the Hill.) About relations between the United States and Russia. I would only be in favour of improving this relationship, because it would also benefit us. However, I am against the fact that this is happening at the expense of third countries, ignoring the principles of international law and creating some new areas of influence. And finally (in view of that time goes away). To be honest, Mr Elksniņš, your speech is a little outside of good and bad, and perhaps it would not be worth commenting on it. I can only say one thing: I guess it's so much to hate everything we do here and the country of Latvia to use such words, either for former presidents or for certain things. The only thing I want to emphasise is: the former president, whether it be Vaira Vike-Freiberga or Valdis Zatlers, does not create foreign policy. They are the same citizens as us (and, unfortunately, not exactly as we are Members and Ministers of the Saeima) who have the right to speak. They do not reflect the official opinion of the Latvian Government, but I think some of the ideas that had been expressed in a letter to Trump, which was not insulting in any way to the President, but which affected certain issues that concern us, can also be agreed. It is a private citizens' initiative that has once taken up office and should be treated as such. That is why I am calling, colleagues, to do so in such a way that...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U78	Mr Rinkēvičs, your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U79	However, do so in a way that is clear and...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U80	You can apply for the debate again – again. The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Go, go!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U81	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues and respected colleagues! I would like to thank the diplomatic corps, which traditionally honored us today with its presence. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Give back!” ) Thank Latvian diplomats for their ongoing work, which was reflected in the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would like to thank the Latvian soldiers who participate in NATO and European Union military missions – from the coasts of Somalia in the Indian Ocean to Hindukush in Afghanistan. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Do, return the money!” ) Finally, I would like to thank NATO, the soldiers of the allies, who protect the sky above the Baltic States and strengthen the desire of Latvian society to stand for the fundamental values that unite the transatlantic security community. As the Foreign Minister said, the international policy structure has changed in 2016, and this has also been confirmed by US international relations researchers such as Kenet Valcs, Friensis Fukushima, Charles Kupčan, as well as VFR Foreign Minister and future German President Frank Walter Steinmeier. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Spolitis, 16 thousand euros!” ) What will be the environment for foreign policy in 2017 – this is an open question, as the majority of today’s debate has concluded. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Time!” ) Although the debate media is aroused by irrational fears about future events in the world, one thing is clear – for example, global warming is a scientific fact confirmed at UN level. The fact is also the spread of terrorism in the world. Therefore, learning from George Bush's (later) wrong fight against Islamic fundamentalism should follow carefully the loud statements by the new US administration about the destruction of Da'esh, hypocritically supported by Russia, seeking a special UN mandate in the fight against terrorism. I have to agree with what Seneka said 2,000 years ago: we do not have the opportunity to change the things that are decided on by the highest of us. Therefore, I trust Latvian diplomats who defend Latvia's interests, and I believe that it is in our power to focus on our homework. At the moment, I would like to focus on just two of our domestic work – cooperation between the Baltic States and security policy, which we have in definition multilateral, both in terms of training the leadership at the Baltic Defence College in Tērbata, as well as in providing Lithuania with a unified ship escort BALTRON, both with regard to the protection of the Baltic airspace within the framework of the BALTNET system and in cooperation with NATO. First. Baltic cooperation is traditionally close. Since the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and since we became a member of the OECD or the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, Latvia's foreign policy has become self-confident. I therefore recommend that more ambitious targets be set for the integration of our infrastructure and security policy in the Baltics. Latvian foreign policy makers are usually assisted by the non-governmental sector. Therefore, when thinking about the centenary of Latvia, it would be useful to consider the creation of the Baltic Foundation, which is supported by the three Baltic think tanks in a joint letter to the Saeima, the Seimas and Riigikoga. Following the example of the Visegrad Foundation in 2000, the future Baltic Foundation, with the help of an independent and rotating secretariat, could carry out the necessary Baltic research work, which is insufficient at present. Secondly. There are still objective shortcomings in military cooperation between the Baltic States. Thank you to the 87 Members of the Saeima who unanimously decided that our defence expenditure would reach two per cent of GDP in 2018. However, Lithuania has expressed its desire to reach 2.5 per cent of GDP in 2020, and Estonia is currently discussing that today's level of 2.16 per cent of GDP could be raised to at least 2.5 per cent. We are currently investing EUR 67 million in NATO's host country's responsibilities, which is partly deducted from the development of the NAF, as determined by the concept of protection of our country adopted in 2016 and the revised NAF development plan for 2012-2024. This means that in order to develop the capabilities of our armed forces in a planned manner and properly accept the multinational battle groups led by Canada and the Slovak soldiers from Visegrad countries and the European Union Battle Group, we must clearly tell Latvian society that it will not be enough to protect two percent of GDP. An increase of EUR 140 million in public spending should be the subject of a discussion, making the state administration apparatus more effective and preparing certain sectors to draw belts on behalf of Latvia's defence. Our neighbour to the east of Zilupe has turned into a quasi-fascist regime (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “The neighbor tells you, give you the money!” ), as recognised by Russian and Western analysts themselves. The concept of totalitarian protection exists in Finland and countries with a mandatory military service, and I am pleased that within the framework of the NBS, there is not only a debate about total protection, but will begin this year (the grass has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) military training of national citizens in Latvia who will want to do so on a voluntary basis. And that's all in addition to the Earthguard! Volunteering in 2017 will be important not only for national defence, but also for the ability to find a new framework on the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, possibly for a new European Convention, because only in cooperation with our members of the European and transatlantic security community's fate, colleagues will be able to break out in these times of international policy storm. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U82	We can continue the debate. Would you have had a seven-minute debate, Mr Rubika? The debate is therefore continuing. Name to Member Raimond Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U83	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Minister for his report, in which our Ministry of Foreign Affairs looks like a superman – both to save the world from terrorists and to teach the British how they behave in Brexit and to teach the American President what they need. But there is no answer to the question that interests all citizens of our country – what has been the benefit of these actions for the Latvian economy and nation? How much money came into the budget and how much money was lost due to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I think no one will call these figures. It is clear that our country has its responsibilities in foreign policy, which is linked to its membership of the EU and NATO, and which does not have the opportunity to withdraw from many of the shares supported by other Member States, but does not mean that it is not necessary to fight for the economic interests of its country. However, we regularly see many politicians moving ahead with a 'European train', demonstrating their'remaining' position, for example, on the issue of sanctions. As a result, healthy regions and sectors are experiencing serious problems and losses of several tens or even hundreds of millions of euros. It is understandable that there are objective and independent external circumstances – such as the world economic crisis and so on. Against this background, it is all the more inconceivable why all possible and impossible sanctions need to be actively and aggressively supported. However, it is clear from recent history that any economic sanctions have not produced the desired result, rather the opposite. Let us remember at least the example of Cuba and Belarus. What, though, is happening to us? Agriculture, the fish processing industry and other sectors are going down, losing the main markets. Many companies go bankrupt, people simply go to other countries. But we need to support sanctions, even by inventing new ones. The situation has become commonplace: one ministry is doing everything possible to show our country as a comfortable and secure place for investment, while the other at all levels announces a rapid and inevitable military conflict on the territory of Latvia, and with the silent support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, films are shown, where foreign military units take part in parts of Latvia, but during real military training (according to the scenario) the separatist region is named Latgale. What kind of investments can this involve? Who's going to invest money in the front zone? In my opinion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be much more pragmatic. Its task is to make sure that our country lives in peace with all its neighbours, whatever they may be. It is necessary to create favourable conditions for cooperation and trade both with them and with all others. As one Eastern wisdom states, even bad trade is much better than the best war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U84	So let us resume the debate after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name Member of the Saeima Gunars Kūtris to read the results as soon as they are prepared. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U85	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Solvita Āboltiņa, Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Jānis Klžads, Nally Kleinberga, Rihards Kols... And, Armands Krauze, Vilnis Chersis... yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Roman Mežeckis, Vladimir Nikonov, Arvīds Platoper, Artis Rasmanis, Mārtiņš Šics, Juris Šulcs... Yes, Jānis Trupovnieks and Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U86	Thank you. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U87	Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U88	Hello! ( Interface: “Hello! ” ) I fully agree with the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the welfare of the state and its citizens is the primary task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – just as the primary task of all public administration is responsible work for economic and economic development. However, I have not heard in the report any particular number or fact of how effectively the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been used to improve the welfare of the country and its citizens. Why am I worried? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Why? Why? Why?’ ) Because 70 percent of the people do not trust the Saeima – for us. Three percent want to even knock us down, blame Members for their low welfare. That is why I asked the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do their job in 2017 so that I and other Members would not be handed over to the linca court. The next question is what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sometimes stresses – security. There is a saying: God protects those who protect themselves. And the second saying: the salvation of the glacier is the work of the glacier's own hand. History of Latvia shows that in World War II no treaty provided security for Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “We had no contract!” ) The security of Poland, Lithuania, Estonia and Finland was also not guaranteed by contracts. Finland itself defended its own security. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “There was no contract!” ) Yes! Next. I have a great request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – to respect the principles of good governance in 2017. And a report on what has been done to build on an action plan to achieve strategic objectives. To account for which point of the plan has been reached, which is not – and why – not. Let the report not just talk about foreign affairs! Sometimes Mr. Leiens criticises me that what I say is blah, blah, blah... Also, please indicate in the 2017 annual report how effective the return on the euro invested in each Ministry's budget to promote the economy is. My personal view is that if we invest 100 million in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' activities must provide at least 200 million revenue in the budget. And the last call I make to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to respect the new US President, Mr Trampa! I believe that he will break the opposition between Russia and the US, from which our economy and our economy have been materially affected. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Well, that’s it – four balls!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U89	Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Janis Eglīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U90	Hello, honorable Saeima! Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! It is necessary to agree with Mr Kola that this document is of high quality this year, but it lacks one chapter until excellent, on which I want to say a word today, namely on the topicality of climate change policy. The historic global climate change agreement adopted in Paris in December 2015, the Paris Agreement, entered into force on 4 November last year. The entry into force of an international treaty within less than one year of its adoption is considered to be a historical success and a sign of the importance of limiting climate change. The impact of climate change on the economies of all countries in the world today is a clear fact. Therefore, at both national and global level, we also need to take action to limit the negative effects of climate change. The Paris Agreement has so far been ratified by 126 countries, including 22 Member States of the European Union. On behalf of the European Union, the Paris Agreement was already ratified on 5 October 2016. Latvia has also started the ratification of the Paris Agreement of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, and I hope that it will be supported today at first reading. In 2017, at international level, work will continue on the technical development of the implementation conditions of the Paris Agreement and preparation for 2018, when all countries are planning to negotiate opportunities to increase their ambitions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Important work in 2017 in the field of climate policy will also take place at the level of the European Union. Work is planned to be completed on the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and allocating emission quotas among the Member States of the European Union. This is a particularly important issue, as the objective to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will affect all sectors of the Latvian economy. Of course, it is essential for Latvia to achieve the best possible conditions. It is equally important to conclude work on the reform of the European Union's emissions trading system. Therefore, we will also continue our efforts to maintain the conditions as favourable as possible for Latvian operators in the reform of the European Union's emissions trading system. Significant progress must also be made in implementing the Energy Union, one of its dimensions being the global decarbonisation of the economy. The draft Regulation on governance of the Energy Union will establish a future policy planning framework for energy and climate issues. Latvia must ensure that the energy and climate governance mechanism provided for in the Energy Union Management Regulation is put in place in a realistic manner. Further work is needed to ensure adequate integration of climate aspects on issues related to the planning of future financing periods of the European Union. All these listed issues are very important for Latvia, and it is essential to defend the interests of Latvia in their progress. We must be aware that these interests will require active and coordinated work of all institutions involved in Latvia, including ministries, with the European Commission and representatives of other Member States. Moreover, this work should be primarily coordinated at national level, as climate policy affects absolutely all sectors of the economy and thus depends largely on the policies and measures of the economic sectors, in particular energy, transport and agriculture, to achieve binding climate objectives for Latvia. We must not allow a situation where any sector acting in its own field would place an additional burden on the achievement of climate objectives in other sectors. At the same time, of course, the most important contribution to achieving climate targets would be expected from those sectors where it requires relatively least resources. Once again, I would like to stress that meeting the climate targets is aimed at low-carbon development, which means sustainable economic development, not hindering it. In conclusion, we will face a new challenge in the field of climate policy in 2017 – the position of the new US administration on climate policy will be clear. Until now, Latvia, like the European Union as a whole, has been working actively to defend its interests at international level and we intend to continue to do so. However, this work will only deliver results if we can act in a coordinated and coherent manner at all national levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U91	The name of the Member Dzintārs Zaķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U92	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I will come to this platform as Head of the Cooperation Group between the parliaments of Latvia and Georgia. From what has been said today, in fact, in only one I have heard support for Georgia. The Minister mentioned at the 20th minute that Georgia is a partner and hoped that Georgia would succeed in introducing a visa-free regime with Europe. Colleagues! Friendship is tested in practice, not at festivals, but in times of distress, and today is the time when we can test how much we are prepared to support words with actions. Why am I saying that? Because on 2 February there will be a vote in the European Parliament on the visa-free regime. Then, on 14 and 22 February, there will be a number of technical matters, votes, and on 28 February there will be a vote in the Council of Europe. More than a year ago, Georgia first tried to achieve a visa-free regime. Then Germany opposed claiming that Georgia is a threat, let us say from the point of view of the criminal situation, that many Georgians are committing crimes in Germany. When we looked at the statistics, it turned out to be less than one percentage point, while Lithuania, Poland, Greece and other countries have a much higher percentage. These conclusions were drawn, without any concrete motivation, simply for political reasons and were thrown out of the process. Now coming February 2, February 28. There is some concern that other countries, Europe's big countries, which are in power by populists, could once again do the same. Why am I telling you that? Because I think we have the right time to invest all our energy... I thank the Ministry for the fact that, until now, representatives of the Ministry and diplomats in the European corridors have very much supported Georgia's efforts, but now both diplomats and our Members who are in the European Parliament could put pressure, as they say, on all their efforts, to be careful and to work to date... both formal and private initiatives to persuade and make sure that this really is a positive vote. This is important for us, but even more importantly for Georgia. And I'll explain why. In particular, there were a number of populist parties in Georgia to the last elections, who came and told the voters the following: "You were promised the European Union - they didn't give it. It just happened! NATO promised you – didn't give. It just happened! You were promised a visa-free regime – the chic just met.” Will the only thing that the people of Georgia will get from the European Union be a change of attitude on minority issues? That was indeed one of Georgia's former leaders. If Georgia fails, there will be great disappointment, there will be unfulfilled hopes, and there is reason to believe that the people – not politicians, but people! – increasingly starting to look towards Russia. We certainly do not need that. The other thing, which is also important. In his speech, the Minister mentioned both Belarus, Armenia and Azerbaijan. These countries are watching Georgia succeed in obtaining a visa-free regime and will certainly draw conclusions from either coming closer to Europe or Russia. Consequently, in my opinion, this is the right time for everyone to put pressure on and do both official and private works in order to persuade us to influence what we are able to do, to make a positive decision. Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U93	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U94	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that we are all already, so to say, “pumped” with various foreign policy topics. So I'm going to try five minutes when they start counting. At the moment, they have not started to count, and I probably can speak for a long time... Ladies and gentlemen! I want to talk about the part of the foreign policy that is most related to the people who live in Latvia. I want to touch a little on Russia. To avoid any misunderstanding, I would like to say straight away that I really condemn the occupation, annexation, various other violations of international norms by the Russian Federation. I condemn Russia's open or hidden support for hostilities in the east of Ukraine. I also condemn the informal negotiations between certain ministers of the Greens/Farmers Union and certain officials of Russia. As far as I understand it was not agreed with the foreign service. In any event, in general terms, I support the fact that the position expressed by Latvia and other countries of our allies is the same in relation to the official administration of the Russian Federation. And the sanctions that Mr Rubika spoke about, I think we should support because... Once again, these sanctions are only against specific words, surnames, if you can say so, and not economic ones. In economic and economic terms, the Russian side has imposed sanctions on itself. However, if we look at all these messages that are, and were, in today's debate, they are mostly negative about Russia: cyber war, threats, military training, possible or impossible military invasion, the same thing, of course, Ukraine, Crimea, propaganda. The report is also based on this message. It is good that I managed to find a literally one - and - a - a - a - one - half paragraph where certain things were mentioned. There is actual cooperation – on the work of the Border Demarcation Commission, on cooperation in transport, border protection, customs and other areas. And then again, there is the same code that I have just mentioned: cyber war, propaganda, Russia, which is our little or our enemy number 1, and so on, and so on. And at the very end, there is one sentence that will at the same time focus on cooperation with Russian civil society and the non-governmental sector. In my opinion, this sentence could and should be slightly extended – to at least one paragraph! – next year in the same foreign report. I think that the Saeima can also help, as I said, to promote cooperation with Russian civil society. Otherwise, if we only make these negative messages, we are essentially becoming a mirror that also benefits Russia's current administration, because the idea that the whole world has sworn against Russia, that Russia is now the only country that fights for various moral values, and so on, is constantly being maintained in the Russian mass media. I think we do not need to give these patrons, if it can speak, to the campaigners of propaganda war. I would like to remind you that this civil society in Russia and beyond is sufficiently active. Today, Mr Hodorkovsky and his creation were not mentioned once, and as far as I can see, the led project "Otkritaya Rossija" (which means open, open or transparent Russia). Vladimir Kara-Murza, who was here some time ago in Latvia, in Riga, also stressed an important idea, which I invite you to make, so to speak, behind the ear – that Russia is not just Putin... and Putin is not the whole of Russia. Just like Latvia, it's not just Kučinskis, like the United States, it's not one politician or the other politician who likes each other, the other doesn't like it. By the way, as far as Russia and the United States are concerned, I myself have been in both countries (Interior: Ooo!) ), I have met a lot of people on one side and on the other side. I think it would be interesting for each of us to talk to those people, and each of them was brave enough to also express criticism of the country's leadership. I'm sorry, I won't be in five minutes. ( Milestones.) So I'm going to try to finish the idea, at least because of those who listen, because basically, as you know, you're all tired. This code, which we always put in Russians living in our country - that Russia is a threat that there is a threat of a cyber attack, that Crimea is occupied and so on, and so on - this code, I think, at one point a Russian-speaking person who may be very tolerant to the Latvian cultural environment, who knows Latvian... Perhaps he talks with his children in Latvian, but at some point I think he can start thinking like this: “Paga, paga, paga! If all around the information is that Russia is a threat, then maybe I am not really reliable to the Latvian state as well? Perhaps I, a Russian speaker, can become a potential threat to the country I live in?’ As we know, many Latvians who live abroad are not born here, many of them may never have been in Latvia, but of course they relate themselves to Latvia and the Latvian language culture space. So I think that those people who relate themselves to Russian, to the Russian cultural space, we don't need to program right away, so to speak, hate those people as well... Latvia's first persons, mostly (90 per cent of cases), are also negative about what is happening in Russia. By the way, no one has mentioned today that the Estonian head of government, Jiri Ratass, has expressed the idea that citizenship should be given to those people who have lived for at least 25 years in Estonia. I understand that there will be very wide discussions there, and I personally do not support such an idea in relation to Latvia, but it only shows once again what I try to tell you all during my speech – that Russian-speaking people, Russian-speaking people, Russians and representatives of other nations, live in Estonia and Latvia, and we must try to cooperate with them. These people can also contribute to the support of Russian civil society. I therefore call, as I said at the very beginning, for this position to be strict and for it to be explained to our allies, both in NATO and in the European Union, and for this position to be shared with regard to the current leadership of the Russian Federation and its decisions, which increasingly run counter to international standards. And at the same time, I also urge us to reiterate with perseverance that we really want to support Russian civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U95	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U96	I would like to ask for a combination of both times. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Of course, John! But of course!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U97	Do Members have reservations if Member Wucan brings together the two times of the debate? There is no objection. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U98	High Minister for Foreign Affairs! Highly respected Members and honourable Members! Dear Members of the Committee. I would like to talk today, in this foreign policy debate, about the parliamentary dimension of Latvia's foreign policy in the Baltic Sea region in my view – as Chairman of the Baltic Sub-Commission and Head of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. The section of the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs “Cooperation in Northern Europe and the Baltic Sea Region” states (I quote): “2016 has been the year of Baltic-Nordic cooperation in Latvia’s diplomacy, during which Latvia exercised a leading role in important regional cooperation formats. Latvia held the presidency of the Baltic Council of Ministers and coordinated the activities of the Baltic-Nordic informal cooperation format NB8. At the same time, Latvia's Presidency of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference ensured greater synergy between cooperation at parliamentary and executive level.” ( End quoted) I would like to stress the importance of this synergy in the successful implementation of our foreign policy and, in particular, in the Baltic Sea region. The two most important forms of parliamentary cooperation for Latvia in the Baltic Sea region are the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference. In 2016, both of these institutions looked at their performance in 25 years of operation, and in both of these institutions this activity report and presentation of future action plans took place during the Presidency of Latvia. These presidencies were implemented by the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. The Latvian Parliament as a whole, and the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, in particular, the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, at the same time, were both honouring and an opportunity to set a cooperation agenda. Looking at the progress made during these two presidencies – I think that despite the criticisms expressed today from this troupe regarding cooperation in the Baltic region, we have done a lot. Colleagues! It was a year ago, in a similar foreign policy debate, that by presenting the priorities of the Latvian Presidency at the Baltic Assembly in 2016 and the main priorities of the Action Programme, I said that the Latvian Presidency's goal in the Baltic Assembly would be to achieve an increasingly inclusive and coherent policy between the parliaments and executives of the Baltic States in order to strengthen the region's growth and stability in the interests of the citizens of the Baltic States. Having evaluated the cooperation not only with the Latvian executive power, but also with the executive powers of other Baltic States, we have managed to strengthen the closer coordination network with the Baltic Council of Ministers, working in a truly strong tandem. The Latvian delegation in the Baltic Assembly took a few additional steps to strengthen cooperation with the executive pillar. In addition to cooperation at the level of the committees and the presidency of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers, the Latvian delegation in the Baltic Assembly organised regular meetings with Latvian industry ministers and ministerial representatives to discuss various issues related to practical partnerships and joint projects. In September 2016, we also met with Prime Minister of Latvia Māri Kučinski to discuss the progress of implementation of the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers and cooperation between these two institutions. Based on the approach established by the Latvian delegation, we have also called on our Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues to strengthen cooperation with the Baltic Council of Ministers within the framework of the national delegations. If we ourselves are actively and forcefully monitoring the implementation of the recommendations of the Baltic Assembly, we will be able to translate our decisions into practical projects, because we are already expecting practical cooperation rather than political declarations. Now it's about specific things. Within the framework of the Latvian Presidency, Baltic cooperation has both success and failure stories. I do not want to claim that cooperation between the Baltic States is taking place without being caught, but quite often, in the shadow, practical implementation remains. I would like to begin with positive examples. In 2016, we were very successful in coordinating closer cooperation between the Baltic Border Guard, which was particularly important in the context of migration and refugee crisis. Together we started work on strengthening European values in the Baltic Information Space, strategic communication and strengthening of the media in the region. We jointly discussed the issues of prevention of hybrid threats, the NATO-EU strategic course, strengthening cooperation in defence and security. Together with the leading officials of the Ministry of Education and Science, we continued work on strengthening cooperation in the field of education and research, focusing in particular on the Baltic Bonus programme, the tripartite agreement on automatic mutual recognition of academic degrees and professional education diplomas and on common marketing strategies for education. We gave very targeted support to the countries of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union. Together we continued to coordinate legislation and remove obstacles to cooperation to successfully combat the shadow economy and tax fraud in the Baltic region. We continued the parliamentary pressure on the joint procurement of medicines. At present, key work in this area is already taking place at executive level, but we will continue with parliamentary scrutiny. However, not all areas of our cooperation have been so successful. In particular, within the framework of Rail Baltica project in public space, strong criticism of Baltic cooperation was expressed over the course of the year. The Baltic Assembly has relentlessly reminded of the importance of Rail Baltica for our region. On behalf of the Baltic Assembly, I can assure you that we will continue to actively monitor the progress of this project, up to ensuring stable train movement within the framework of this project. I would like to emphasise that the process of open and fair mutual communication between the three Baltic States is extremely important. On behalf of the Baltic Assembly, I would like to emphasise once again and again that the short-term interests, the inability to speak out openly and agree, must not jeopardise the Rail Baltica project, which is a forward-looking project. On Monday, 23 January, the President of the Baltic Assembly sent a request to the Prime Minister of Lithuania regarding his recent statements on his possible refusal to sign an intergovernmental agreement on Rail Baltica, and yesterday, 25 January, the Lithuanian Government nevertheless decided to sign this agreement. We have achieved a lot in the area of joint medical projects. The agreements reached and signed intergovernmental medical agreements have helped save lives in the border area of Estonia and Latvia. However, for incomprehensible reasons, we are late in signing the agreement between Latvia and Lithuania. We will continue our parliamentary pressure for this treaty to be signed in the coming year. As part of the signed declarations between our countries, there is an exchange of donors' organs for transplantation, and so life has been saved for several people in recent years. Mr. Foreign Minister! I would like to add that there are areas where the views and positions of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers do not match, but we must continue to discuss these areas together. The Baltic Assembly will continue to raise the following issues: first on joint military procurement; second on the establishment of a joint master programme for the employees of the Baltic law enforcement authorities, using the funding of our countries and the European Union; third on joint action on attracting foreign investment and increasing exports in global markets; fourth on closer cooperation in the area of health, establishing a unified Baltic e-health system, on joint procurement and specialisation of medical services; fifth on long-term planning of new transport infrastructure projects, as well as on closer cooperation in the field of air transport. Colleagues! In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that interparliamentary cooperation within the framework of the Baltic Assembly is of strategic importance to Latvia. Through the Baltic Assembly, we have a strong parliamentary tool in our hands to achieve the following important objectives for the region: first, pooling resources and reducing costs; second, closer integration of the region into Europe, promoting transport, infrastructure and energy connections; thirdly, representing the interests of the region. On proof that the three Baltic Parliamentaries are able to agree, the fact that the resolution adopted during the annual session of the Baltic Assembly in 2016 included 46 – I repeat – 46! – very specific recommendations drawn up by the Committees of the Baltic Assembly on coordination measures between different areas. These recommendations are not only political declarations but also targeted steps that we need to take to pool resources, reduce costs, integrate our countries more closely into the European space and represent our national interests. By working in this way, in recent years, we have managed to pool resources by coordinating cooperation between law enforcement authorities in the fight against tax fraud and the shadow economy. We have managed to pool resources by attracting foreign tourists to the Baltic region. We have managed to pool resources by establishing a system for the exchange of organs for transplantation. We have established the Baltic Innovation Fund to promote entrepreneurship. Our border guards work together to protect Europe's external borders. The list of successful examples is long. However, I would also like to speak openly about some of the shadows of cooperation. There are areas where we should have stronger political support. It is still difficult for us to see that cooperation in the economy, attracting foreign investment, as well as promoting joint exports are areas where we need to cooperate. This year, in one of the meetings of the Baltic Assembly Committee, we listened to a representative of the Latvian-Lithuanian-Belarusian cross-border cooperation programme from Lithuania, who admitted that when travelling to Shanghai, for example, and representing only Lithuanian economic interests, no significant partner showed any interest in cooperation. The Baltic countries with a population of less than seven million inhabitants are also small, but the level of negotiations with global market representatives is already more realistic. This shows that we in the Baltics have to talk about economic cooperation and attracting foreign investment. Colleagues! We must be aware that joint military procurements of the Baltic States, joint master programmes, joint specialised medical centres, joint laboratories for food testing are areas in which we will not only pool resources but also contribute to cost reduction through cooperation. These issues will continue to be actively included on the cooperation agenda in the Baltic Assembly, in a step-by-step way overcoming the inability to open doors to different areas of cooperation. Colleagues! When comparing cooperation between the Baltic States 25 years ago and today, we see that this cooperation has become much more practical, based on the implementation of joint projects, solving common problems, because, as I said, we expect practical cooperation, not political declarations. Being involved in the Baltic cooperation process, I can say that the stability of cooperation (or, as others sometimes call it, the boring nature of cooperation) does not mean regression. Yes, we have and will have areas in which there will be a sharper exchange of words between the Baltic delegations, as well as within national delegations and parliaments. Of course, there will be areas where each country will first think about its own interests and only then about common interests. But it does not mean the weakness of cooperation, but, in my view, it is the strength of cooperation. And this cooperation force helps us to increase our parliamentary cooperation in another form of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference in cooperation with the other 10 countries of this cooperation format. And this is the case for the whole Baltic Sea region in developing a sustainable tourism platform, as well as taking over the best practice in providing health and social care services (also in low population density regions) as well as in other areas. Over the last year, the Baltic Assembly and also the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference have repeatedly addressed the issue of involving our neighbouring country, Belarus, in the discussion of issues of importance to the Baltic Sea region, including the further deepening of relations between the European Union and Belarus, while listening carefully to the arguments based on our cooperation partners from the Nordic countries that Belarus' path to strengthening democratic and human rights norms could be faster and more irreversible. It is not possible to mention the cooperation of the Baltic Assembly and its Latvian delegations with the Nordic Council, the Benelux Parliament, the Guam, including the Ukrainian Parliament, the Guam Parliamentary Assembly, and the Visegrad Association, which is important for Latvia in tax implementation. These formats were also used in the European Parliamentary dimension in 2016. Finally, I would like to thank both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries with whom the representatives of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly have had constructive cooperation last year. At the same time, I thank the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Mūrniece, and the Saeima Presidium for their full support for the activities of the Baltic Assembly. Symbolic evidence of this is that the new Saeima Conference Hall brings the name of the Baltic Hall. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U99	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U100	Dear colleagues, Highly Honorable Minister! I want to talk a little about fatigue. ( Milestones.) That's it! Minister, you have such an excellent opportunity, like none of the other ministers, to hear constructive criticisms from both the opposition and your colleagues, from the coalition once a year, and to improve your work each year. That's why I'm very sad about the fact that you mentioned today... So you are tired of Members' questions, the attention of Members. It blows up.) on an issue as important as international trade. It is this issue that is currently the subject of both demonstrations, the collection of signatures and a very wide-ranging debate in very many European countries. Therefore, Minister, should I tell you what you usually say to someone who is tired when working in his post? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U101	Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U102	Madam President, Minister! Colleagues! I wonder about both the position and the opposition. Members come and criticise each time, but they do not offer anything. It is easy to criticise – to sit there and to criticise the work of the Minister, but not to offer anything. It is simply unacceptable and not constructive. Today, too, the coalition partners have often expressed some of this phrase: should we be in the euro area, should we be in the European Union at all? Also from the opposition... The criticism of the former President of Latvia and so on. Opposition instructions on how to speak, and so on. I do not understand whether there is any point in this debate if you are not going to offer anything.Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But the Foreign Minister is not tired; he is sitting here until the last moment and ready to speak and answer all the questions. I would like to mention the very important things that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in the last two years and for which you too... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš intermediates.) Mr. Zarins, I am speaking now. I listened very carefully to you. Please listen to me now. Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has very specific functions: number one – diplomacy, number two – promotion of Latvia's foreign policy, number three – coordination with the European Union, number four – care about our national interests. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing this. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has a duty to help entrepreneurs find new markets. The Ministry is also doing this. For example, a very important event was last year... and was also this year, just recently, two weeks ago: Latvia has been appointed as the first resident ambassador of the United Arab Emirates. This means that a very good, constructive, promising new market has opened up. Some of you are not interested in... But I believe that the Foreign Ministry is beginning to think about this region; it is not only thinking about the wars that are taking place in the Middle East, but also about how we can use the investors in this region and, of course, how we can export our products. I think it is also very historical – it will be the first Embassy of the Arab world in the Baltics. I know there was a discussion to be in Vilnius and Lithuania, but thanks to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we managed to get in Riga. This is very important, as it is the way to investment. But what do investors need? Number one – they need a very stable internal policy, number two – a stable government and stable economic development. The opposition can only say that when both our ambassadors and foreign ambassadors sit here, we start washing our clothes. I think it does not help to get into any investment in that country. Dear colleagues! We live in such a world – every event that will take place anywhere in the world will affect us. We do or do not want to. Any disease that might appear in Africa, after a year, after two would also come to us. Any war in the world that happens anywhere affects us too. Four years ago, I wrote an article in the dolphin when the so - called Arab Spring began. And I said that Middle East security is global security. And that's it, dear colleagues. While there's war there, we don't have security. We have terrorists, we have immigrants, and so on, and so on. I believe that we need to understand that we will not be able to participate in what is happening in the world, because it affects us. Direct or indirect. I think that until now Latvia's foreign policy course is the right one, we take care of our national interests, but we are with the European Union, because it guarantees us... The European Union guarantees our security. There was also criticism of Palestinian-Israeli relations. I can talk about it for hours, but I think the Foreign Minister is the first minister to have the courage to talk about it. And if you don't read newspapers or news, he was recently in Paris. There was the Middle East Peace Conference. And he said that Latvia's view of the Palestinian and Israeli conflict is that we want to have two independent states living in peace. That means we have a position. Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs also helped and slightly increased the representative of the Palestinian Authority in Latvia – now it is an ambassador's position. So the Foreign Minister works and does his job. But I doubt that all of us here are also doing our job and carrying out our duties... not only do we come to criticise and talk about, for example, one of the best Presidents of Latvia – Vaira Vīķi-Freiberga. As well as last year, if I am talking about my led cooperation group with the Saudi Parliament. We managed to start with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or, to say so, start diplomatic cooperation with Saudi Arabia. Given that more than 30 million live there, there are the richest people in the region, and we need to get one investor in that country. They haven't heard about us, they don't know anything about us. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Orlov: “How is that?Oh, no, They don't know about Latvia!Is that so? “ How will we make them know? How? Yeah, I don't know. Neither do you know about you, Mr Orlov, that you are running that group and you are not doing anything. So, thank God, our Foreign Minister and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs managed to establish cooperation with Saudi Arabia and get the first non-resident ambassador here in Latvia. And last week there was a delegation from there. The Ministry of Finance will negotiate the signing of various international agreements. This will make it easier for our entrepreneurs who need to export their products somewhere. We are talking about sanctions against Russia, and at the same time we are working to find other new markets. And there is a very potential market. So that our dairy products, our woodworking, our medical tourism that we offer, and so on, and so on... We are a potential country for cooperation with the Arab world. I feel that we are starting to think more seriously about this region. Latvia has a very important geographical location, and I personally want to do everything to happen through Latvia in the Baltics. And so by telling the Minister, who sits here, and the staff, who sits there. If it was not a priority in the past, it is now a priority. Not only, as some say, we want to bring refugees from Turkey to Latvia. In no case was it a priority for Unity or a priority for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Just as we are part of the European Union, we need to show solidarity with the European Union and, of course, the 700 we are still looking for to travel to Latvia, although most of them do not want to go and most of them leave, for which we are always repeating and for which this is a question. Thank God, we have security in this country. The safest country in the world, I think. And thank God for that. Thank you to our security authorities, thank you to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, thank you to the government, which is doing everything for us to have security. Dear friends, investors need stability – a stable government, stable internal policies and security – so that they can come and invest here. To have new jobs and to have money for this country. I was simply not prepared to speak. — Dep. A.Kimiņš: “To you come! It works very well!” ), but I really want to say thank you. I thank the Minister for his cooperation, for the great work you are doing, for the fact that you are everywhere and are representing us everywhere. Thank you also to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Parliamentary Secretary and everyone else for their work. I wish my strength and endurance in the future! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U103	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U104	Hello, colleagues! I didn't mean to talk, because I hoped someone would mention what I wanted to say. You see, while we are discussing and discussing the Foreign Minister's report here today, on the Atlantic side, some events are taking place that may make our foreign challenges even more serious. Today, The New York Times reports that the U.S. administration has begun to prepare two orders to significantly reduce America’s role as a financial donor, both within the United Nations and in other international organisations. Knowing the reputation of the newspaper mentioned above, it must certainly be viewed as very reliable and serious. One of these orders will provide for a reduction of at least 40 percent in the US's remaining international funding, as well as for the setting up of a special committee tasked with drawing up recommendations on where and where to reduce this funding. In particular, the United Nations peacekeeping operations will be reduced (it should be noted that the US currently accounts for about one quarter of these operations!) . And it is known that Trump has also blocked Obama's transfer to Palestine of 220 million. The second order (the Moratorium for New Multilateral Agreements) is intended to review all existing or pending contracts with more than one major state. The explanatory note to the draft order contains two UN treaties for review: the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Experts allow the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to be added to this list. In a word, the new President of the United States is not even a week in power, but we already think of that old saying about the elephant in the dish store. But! It may already be that such elephants were really needed, because it is obvious that colleagues who often go on business trips and do not let them lie are obvious! – that most of these international organisations spend at least 50 per cent of their funding on maintaining their administration and public relations. It remains to be hoped that the reduction of these funds will not affect those areas that allow Latvia to feel safer and more secure. And to ensure that this really does not happen – it also seems to me that it will be the main task of Latvia's foreign policy in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U105	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U106	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Of course, each of us, in an annual report by the Foreign Minister, wants to find something like the Bible that concerns him or that is interesting to him. That is why, in addition to what has been said here, I would like to note with satisfaction our cooperation with the Nordic countries. It is really very important, remembering just the frozen debate on our website about who we are: whether we belong to the North or not, whether we are some post-soviet countries... In fact, in the current global situation, which is developing, I think that this approach to the Northern region to gradually become an integral part of it, as Finland did at the time, is one of the way out – one of the means to protect us. And not only by assessing the strategic security or the energy mix of the region, or all that has really already been done, but also by thinking about other areas – education, consciousness, culture... For what is the North welfare region? An association of people 25 million social and in any other way. And I think it would be extremely good if the next year's report could also see those directions... as a section of this year's report on the OECD, which clearly shows the objectives to which we are moving within the OECD framework. I don't know, Minister... By analogy with the Northern Dimension, perhaps we could talk to our northern neighbours about the development of the Baltic dimension, which would allow us to move closer to the North welfare region, because poverty, fragmentation, the gap between the rich and the poor is, in fact, what we are in the first place and which is threatening our national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U107	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur, want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U108	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members and honourable Members! It's very short. Thank you very much for this interesting, sometimes critical, sometimes sharp, but in any case, I think quite constructive debates. I think we have discussed quite a lot, so I do not want to answer this last one now, let us say that several Members have spoken, even though I have heard both about Georgia and about Baltic cooperation. And I think that here our cooperation with the Saeima has been very good and will continue. I think we all agree that such a debate serves the development of our foreign policy. And, as we can see, in fact, the policy of the whole country is being defeated here, too, in all areas. I think that this year, of course, will be a difficult, interesting year for all of us, but I think its cooperation, the model that we have now developed among all those involved in the development of state foreign policy – the President of Latvia, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister and the Saeima – is, in fact, also determining that our foreign policy is essentially in the interests of our country. It is effective and also contributes to our basic goals – to build the prosperity and security of our people and the country. Thank you very much, therefore. And let us do our utmost so that in the next debate, which will already be a national centenary debate, we can really talk more about constructive things and avoid unnecessary accusations between ourselves, and we can celebrate the centenary of our country and also the beginning of the centenary of our country's foreign policy, worthy and good. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U109	Thank you to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs. Consequently, the Foreign Minister's annual report on the work done and the planned activities of the country's foreign policy and of the European Union have been examined. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak against”
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U110	Dear colleagues, I understand that you are tired, but this is really a very important issue. It is sad to realise that today, on the anniversary of Latvia's international de iure recognition, we must vote for an agreement that will rob part of our independence. ( The ring of noise.) Yes! Now that changes are taking place in the world and also in Europe, trying to approve a treaty whose origins are seven years ago means lagging behind developments. The attitude towards this treaty, which is described by the term "ambitious", "modern", is not clear in all European countries. There is, of course, a condition that the public is aware of the fact of the contract and of the potential risks of the contract. I doubt it. We cannot claim that Latvian society and members of the 12th Saeima have gained a full vision of the shortcomings of this treaty and of our potential benefits from it. It is therefore wrong to believe that Latvia supports the agreement without any reservations or concerns. It is a matter of caution that the non-governmental organisations that have ever expressed criticism about international trade are also excluded from the negotiation of this treaty. As a result, Latvia's citizens have a misconception that all small and medium-sized enterprises will be happy and prosperous from this agreement. Unfortunately, these are really misleading, because very recently, on 8 December, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs of the Council of Europe confirmed that Europe is expected to have 90 million unemployed and great problems in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, because this Treaty does not provide for a support mechanism for these entrepreneurs. A number of millions of people and hundreds of different organisations and groups have protested against signing the treaty on both sides of the treaty – in many countries of the European Union and Canada: trade unions, human rights and nature protection organisations, agricultural producers. There have been protests and petitions have been signed. I will only mention a tenth of the last activities. For example, on 17 October 2016, 101 law professionals from 24 Member States called for the exclusion of a special mechanism for investor protection, which is contrary to the principles of rule of law and democracy. On 21 October 2016, 16 Canadian academic forces from various universities called on not to sign CETA and to implement a meaningful discussion in Canadian and European civil society on this agreement. The European Public Health Alliance, with which the Latvian Ministry of Health and the Latvian Alliance of Non-governmental Organisations also cooperate, addressed the committee responsible of the Council of Europe with a request to reject CETA. Annotation of the draft law shows that, despite the concerns and cautious reservations of certain Latvian non-governmental organisations, there has not been any consultation with public organisations, nor an assessment of the impact of the agreement on the economic development of the state. We have also seen this in the foreign policy debate today. And in the section “Public Participation and Communication Activities” it is stated that public participation and communication activities are not applicable to the draft law. In this way, open consultations with public representatives on this agreement are excluded as a matter of priority. In the Commission for European Affairs, I have not given the Cabinet a mandate to conclude this agreement and I voted against it. That is why I will also vote against today and call on my colleagues to vote against. ( Interface: “The minority has the right to speak! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U111	Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U112	Good afternoon! It is popular today to talk about facts and alternative facts. We have just heard about alternative facts. I would like to mention some well-founded facts. The EU-Canada Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) is the most modern trade agreement that the European Union has so far agreed on. This will provide market access for almost 99 per cent of the tariff lines, access to public procurement at provincial level, strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights, improve the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises and strengthen the rules for the protection of geographical indications. CETA also includes reformed investment protection rules. CETA will not amend, reduce or revoke European Union and Latvian standards in any regulated area, including food safety, product safety, consumer protection, health, environment, social or labour standards. Imports from Canada must comply with all rules and regulations applicable to the European Union producer. It is in Latvia's interest to apply the agreement provisionally and ratify it rapidly so that Latvia can begin to benefit from it in a practical way. The most visible benefit will be the elimination of customs duties. It will bring significant benefits to exports to Canada. The Agreement, which is a shared competence between the European Union and the Member States, will only enter into force after the ratification of CETA by national parliaments. This includes investment protection, intellectual property protection issues, recognition of professional qualifications, financial services and so on. And so that we can benefit from these issues too, it is necessary to work on the ratification of CETA. I would like to emphasise the importance and importance of international trade for global economic growth. For Latvia as a relatively small and open economy, free trade rules with our trading partners are particularly important. Therefore, in view of the benefits I have mentioned from the Agreement between the European Union and Canada, taking into account the protection of the sensitive interests of the European Union and Latvia, and in view of the trade relations between Latvia and Canada, I call on colleagues to be active in their efforts to ratify the Agreement, including by explaining the benefits of CETA to society. This year Canada plays a new and important role in Latvia's foreign policy. As a NATO country, Canada is sending troops to strengthen Latvia's security. At the same time, Canada is an important trade partner between the European Union and Latvia. The closure of CETA is both geopolitical and economically important. I therefore call on the European Union and Canada to refer the comprehensive economic and trade agreement to the Saeima Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U113	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Igor Pimenov! Do you want to talk about the procedure? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U114	Thank you. I would like to express my support for the establishment of co-responsible commissions in the event that this draft law is passed on to the commissions. Can I do it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U115	You can talk now.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement between Canada and the European Union gave rise, as we have already heard, to critical assessments. How controversial this agreement was assessed by the Free Trade Union of Latvia and by its decision...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U117	Proposal for a procedure, Mr Pimenova. Is there any proposal for a procedure?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U118	That is why I propose a co-responsible commission if we... President-in-Office, do I have to say that after you propose to the Saeima your proposal, or before?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U119	Before that.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U120	Before that. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U121	Your proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U122	I propose that the Social and Labour Affairs Commission (Dep. S. Oboltiņa: “Ooo!” ), as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commissions, as well as the Legal Commission for the risk analysis of State sovereignty restrictions. Please vote separately for each of my committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U123	So the proposal is to set out three co-responsible commissions?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U125	Yeah. Thank you. We must therefore vote first on this proposal. For each commission separately. Let us first vote on the definition of co-responsible commissions. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of handing over the draft law on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is a co-responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 54, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of handing over the draft law on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is a joint committee! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 46, for - 3. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, to the Legal Commission, which states that it is a co-responsible commission! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Agešins: “Law can already!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 48, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of handing over the draft law on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, to the Foreign Affairs Commission, which states that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 55, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Voters’ Register” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No 817/Lp12) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” (No 818/Lp12) be submitted to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Technical Supervision of Dangerous Equipment” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Jānis Trupovnieks requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 24 January to 26 January of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Mārtiņš Šics requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 26 January this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Honourable Members! Members of Parliament: Silver, Gaidis Berzins, Āboltiņa, Agešins, Brigmanis and Viļums are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the Parliamentary sitting on 26 January this year and to move items 15 and 16 of the agenda under the heading ‘Review of draft laws’ as the first items of the agenda in this section. After considering these points, they are asking to declare a break on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 26 January 2017 by 9 a.m. until 2 February 2017. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Yes! Yes, it is! Yes, yes!’ ) Members have reservations. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for items 15 and 16 of the draft agenda to be moved as the first items of the agenda in this section and, following their consideration, to be suspended until 9 a.m. on 2 February 2017! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the order of business - draft decision “On the appointment of Laura Šņepsta as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U126	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 24 January this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Laura Šņepsta as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Lauri Šņepsta to appoint a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U127	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Laura Šņepsta as a judge of district (city) court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Anti-Corruption Office”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U128	Thank you for the Bureau. Colleagues! The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption at its meeting on 17 January has supported the initiative of the Government: to extend the number of candidates for the post of Head of the Anti-Corruption Office. In order to achieve this, the commission agreed with the candidate for the post of KNAB president - experience in management - not to fix a certain duration. The law will, of course, maintain the requirement for experience in management of public administration or in the field of law protection, but its duration will not be specified, leaving the assessment of the experience of the manager to the selection committee of the applicants, which, as you know, consists of the Director of the State Chancellery, the Prosecutor General, the Director of the Constitutional Protection Office and the Chief of the Security Police. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U129	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 25, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U130	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U131	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 25, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time when the draft law at second reading is to be discussed by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U132	Thank you, colleagues, for your support. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 30 January this year. And the date for the second reading - February 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U133	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 30 January of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 2 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic”. Second reading: On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U134	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! We are working on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic”. One proposal was received for the second reading: the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra, who was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U136	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U137	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Electoral Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U138	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U139	Thank you. Proposals are due by 2 February this year. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the meeting to be held today for answers to Members' questions. Member of the Minister of Transport of Zarina, Tutina, Agešina, Orlova and Raimonds Rubika Uldis Augums About the European standard rail gauge railway line Rail Baltica. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On the question of Member Zarina, Tutina, Agešina, Ribakova and Raimonds Rubika, Minister of Health Anda Čakšai “In the context of the inability of the Ministry of Health and avoidance to provide information about “the successful implementation of the 1st and 2nd rounds of the e-health project””. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that, due to the regional visit, it will not be possible to attend the oral response. Member of Parliament Zarina, Agešina, Tutina, Ribakova and Raimonds Rubika, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Aseraden, “For avoiding the Ministry of Economics, give clear answers to its gas market model and its relevance to national safety and public interests”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. Member Zarina, Tutina, Agešina, Raimonds Rubika and Artūra Rubika Minister of Transport Uldis Augums About the implementation of Rail Baltica project. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The replies to Members' questions will therefore not be provided at 17.00. Members' questions have been received. Members Bondars, Bite, Melgailis, Ruks and Viļums have submitted a question about the housing guarantee programme of the Joint Stock Company Development Finance Institution Altum, which is submitted to the Minister of Finance for reply. Motivation name to Member Mārtiņš Bondars. ( The utterances are: “There will finally be silence! ” “Wait for five minutes!” ) As the Member has not arrived, there is a lack of motivation. Members of Parliament have submitted the question ‘On the national food quality scheme’ to the Minister for Agriculture. Members of Silver, Balodis, Platoper, Symfa and Meija have submitted the question “On the sale of shares of “Grindeks” AS”, which is submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs for reply. Members Elksniņš, Tretjaka, Agešin, Adamson and Potapkins have submitted the question “On the system of mandatory electricity procurement”, which is submitted to the Minister for Economics for their response. Members of the group Silver, Shimfa, Balodis, Platosters and Maya have submitted the question “On limiting the spread of hepatitis C by blood from donors” that we give to the Minister of Health Anda Chakša. Thank you. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to read the results of the registration to a member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as the results of the registration have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U140	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Andris Bērziņš, Mārtiņš Bondars, Boriss Cilevičs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Jānis Klžads, Nellija Kleinberga, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Imants Krādnieks, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Trupovnieks and Juris Vectirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-01-26-PT12-397-U141	Thank you. Interruption until February 2, 2017 at 9.00. ( Interruption)
