ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 7 December 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, changes to the Bureau's agenda. Members Adamovičs, Gaidis Berzins, Brigmanis, Spolitis, Jansons and Kleinberg are asking to make changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to consider the draft decision “On the extension of the term of office of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers for the military operation of the ISIL/Da’esh international coalition in Iraq” as the first issue on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the term for the participation of soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the military operation of the ISIS/ Da’esh international coalition in Iraq”. Name: Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! The Ministry of Defence has submitted for approval a draft decision of the Saeima on the extension of the term of office of the Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers for the participation in the military operation of the international coalition in Iraq. The security and political situation in Iraq is still fragile and there is a serious threat of terrorism. It is clear that international efforts to develop Iraqi security capabilities are critical not only for the stabilisation of the Iraqi state, but also for the region as a whole, in order to reduce the threat of terrorism for Europe. In view of the security situation and challenges, Latvia has received an invitation from the United States to step up its contribution with additional instructors. It is important for Latvia to continue to support partners in the fight against ISIL and terrorism in general, not only to demonstrate its role as a reliable partner in ensuring international security, but above all! - also to protect European integrity and the internal security of European countries. From the point of view of consistency and quality of military planning, it is necessary to confirm Latvia's readiness to continue and increase its participation in the capacity development of Iraq by giving the Saeima a mandate to continue the participation of NBS in the operation. One of the main lines of action of the international coalition is the training of Iraqi security forces, which remains the cornerstone of an effective fight against Da’esh. It is therefore essential that the primary tasks of our military mission are related to the training of the local security forces and the development of the capacity to provide advice. The Iraqi security forces have demonstrated their high combat capacity and morals, but many of them have fallen in the battlefield. Latvia's task is to support Iraqi security forces with experience and advice so that they can gain their own victory in the battlefield and take responsibility for the security of their country. Our operational partners in Iraq value the capabilities of our soldiers, rely on us to plan our future engagement, and are ready to provide us with the necessary support in the mission area. Honourable Members! In order to ensure consistent national participation in the international coalition operation in accordance with the progress achieved by the operation, while respecting the principle of multinational planning of the coalition, an extension of the deadline should be granted until 1 February 2020. The Latvian National Armed Forces intend to engage with 40 military contingents in this operation. The Ministry of Defence will ensure participation in the operation according to the allocated state budget funds. In view of all the above, I ask you, honourable Members, to support the draft decision of the Saeima on the continuation of the participation of the National Armed Forces in the international coalition operation in Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U3	Thank the Minister. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the extension of the term of office of the soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces for the international coalition military operation against the terrorist organisation ISIL/ Da’esh in Iraq! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of the request made by Members and the opinion of the Request Commission. Inguna Silverba, Nellija Kleinberga, Ringold Baloža, Jānis Ruka, Gunāra Kūtra, Aivara Maya, Jura Viļuma, Vara Krūmiņa, Mārtiņš Šics and Rihards Melgailis apply to Prime Minister Māris Kučinskis “On the Results of the Research Committee of the National Security Committee of the LSSR”. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U4	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission has examined the request made by our fellow Members, Inguna Silverba, Nelli Kleinberg, Ringold Baloža and others, to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, on the results of the research committee of the LSSR's National Security Committee. The Commission was convinced of the usefulness of this Commission (including people from the Ministry of Education and Science, where this issue was discussed) and the request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U5	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U6	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Hey, what was that, what have we just heard? What it was was, I'll answer you. First, second and third. Firstly, I will state the substance of the opinion of the Request Commission that has been heard. Secondly, on demand as an instrument of parliamentary control and its role in Latvian parliamentaryism. And, thirdly, on the substance of the specific request referred to in the opinion of the Panel. So I will begin with the substance of the Panel's opinion, which consists of two sentences. However, I will quote the most important words. Mr Brigmanis told his words, that is also good, but I will quote that it says: ‘The request made by Members is to be rejected because, in the matters covered by the request, the law in question has not been violated’. You know, the Petitions Commission, what do these words really mean? I'll tell you! ‘ We, the ruling coalition, are great! We're green! We're beautiful! We know what we want, and what we want, we can! And what can we do?” What we heard from the Committee on Petitions was evidence of arrogance. So to say: we, the Unity, the FAO and the National Union have a majority, and you have a majority for our cheque bags... Excuse me!... do not even think to be present to our Cheque bag research commission! Half a million, half a million! - the euro has been spent in conferences and articles, but the Commission only declares in public space that the bag must be opened. But of course! 27 years since the 4 May 1990 declaration, we know... for Czechs, a couple of investigative commissions were already set up for bags in the Supreme Council, in the 5th Saeima - the first after the restoration of independence - an investigative commission was set up. Now, after three years of work and spending half a million euros, the Czech bag research commission, set up by the coalition, does not know what the government really recommends to do with the Czech bags. It goes to the president to tell about it and complain that the SAB, especially Jānis Maizinis, is responsible for everything. And we, those who are under demand, want to know what is going on in that country. Why the commission that was created to bring clarity - quite the contrary! - was practically with everyone, even with Shadurski, who drew this commission. I will be direct, because someone has to start talking the truth about what is happening here. The government-building parties, through the opinion of the Request Commission, say to the petitioners and to the people: “Sit in your pants and don’t worry!” In fact, we had no doubt that everything would happen exactly as it is today, and the Request Commission will say: “We do not see the basis, we reject it!” The coalition raises its hands to the top, and the demand is rejected. Immediately after the Appeals Commission meeting last week, I came to one of the coalition Members and asked: "What about their request?" He says: “Of course we refused! But how else?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Of course! Why? Because point 4.3 of the coalition or cooperation agreement lays down one important obligation for all coalition partners - to reject any request and also not to propose the requests themselves. I will quote “Panorama” this morning (this was said about 50 minutes ago): “For various subjective reasons, the commission does not work as it should, and the Prime Minister should control it. And it's not a question for legislators." ( Gaidis Berzins.) I would just add that this is the task of the government, of course. And, of course, we are not talking about opening bags now and now. We are talking about how this process is going. For what was really happening in the previous Saeima? The previous Saeima, in order not to open the bags, created this scientific research commission, and the law stated that it was no longer a political issue. The political question was excluded from the law and said that it was a scientific question. At this point in time, it is a question for governments or, to be more correct, for scientists. But the opposition is exactly the same institution in Parliament, which, under conditions of democracy and parliamentaryism, must follow the way the government works. To say so, the opposition must take care of these issues. On requests and their functioning at the 12th Saeima. Thus, demand, along with other forms of parliamentary control, is a means of verifying the work of the government. The opposition has a special call and obligation, as I said. On another similar instrument - on issues. I have talked about them in this Saeima on several occasions. Questions can be asked on the evening when journalists are no longer present, and questions are severely restricted by the Rule of Conduct. Ministers usually ignore questions and write that there is no time for such foolishness and they have to go to Brussels, for example, or somewhere else. When a minister from the Brīvības Boulevard finally comes to this regrettable event on Jēkabs Street, it is a miracle that the questioners are no longer really able to ask questions, because they are distracted by the fact that they have managed to get a live minister to answer questions. There is an even more tragic situation with requests. Questions can be asked by Members and at least have to be withdrawn, whereas requests are as follows: According to Rules 124 and 126 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Board of Petitions is the one that gives an opinion to the Saeima on the submission of a request to the Prime Minister or a separate minister or on its rejection. And then we have to decide on it today, right now. I drilled a little through the archives and I can also share with you the dry statistics, which better than anything else shows that the specific opinion of the Request Commission... Well, this approach is not specific. This approach is traditional - the specific demand goes along the scutch path, and a similar or different demand will not be able to wander to the conscience of the men of government. 23 requests were made during the parliamentary term. Two... Well, I didn't study that deep, there was no time... Two were withdrawn by the applicants themselves and 21 were examined by the Requesting Commission and decided to reject them on the same grounds. And, in my opinion, it is really bad and regrettable that we cannot discuss with one another; that those who take power are pushing the others aside from the question and even not want to talk about such sensitive issues as how money is squandered. Because the law on cheque bags provides a definition. Its definition is: State ownership. State property - I repeat! And for the third time, state property! And half a million - these are extremely large sizes! Especially big amounts of waste! Okey, okay! There was a conference - Ritvars Jansons will tell me now. This man from the coalition will now tell you about the fact that it's very good that conference... I agree: it's super! That's a book, it's even better! That there have been articles - that's more, better! But the idea was for this commission... When this commission was set up... I don't think there could have been such an idea to take time to keep the bags open. Well, it couldn't work out! We all want to open those bags! Our dear ancestors in the previous Saeima could not have imagined that they would just take time with the commission: “And then let’s see that in the next Saeima we will get or not; and let’s think further.” Now that deadline is next Saeima, the end of next year. So I would like to say this about this request, here. What we wanted was a clear view of the work of this commission, of the money spent. Money is not even the primary aspect of this issue, although essential. We wanted to hear those bags open. And if the commission starts to glitch public at the end of their term that they can't access that SAB doesn't let them come, then... I mean, I mean, I should have done it in the beginning. Finally. Let me conclude by calling: let us vote, colleagues, on parliamentaryism and show that we want and are able to be a parliamentary republic that respects the minority's view! Support the request, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U7	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U8	Dear colleagues, The National Association and its political group came to the Saeima for public access to documents of the former State Security Committee even before the establishment of the KGB Scientific Research Committee. The opinion of the National Association - KGB documents should be made publicly available next year, setting a specific date in law. This will not be in contradiction with the current law that the KGB Scientific Research Commission should carry out its work and submit its conclusions by 31 May 2018. To date, the work of the KGB Scientific Research Committee has focused mainly on research. The KGB documents financed by the National Archives of Latvia, the relationship of the KGB with various institutions, have been successfully studied. Research work can help prepare the publication of various groups of KGB documents with scientific comments. The Head of the Commission - Dr. of History, Karlis Kanger - has promised that the Commission has the power to make scientific comments by the end of May next year. The financial resources at the disposal of the Commission are sufficient to produce scientific comments. In order for totalitarian regimes and even germs to never be possible in Latvia, it is necessary to accurately show the location of the KGB in totalitarian power system. For more than 20 years, you can't look around the KGB's lowest level of informants, focusing on it alone. As pointed out by the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Šadurskis, recommendations on the public access to documents are expected from the commission. The Commission has so far failed to make recommendations. We also look forward to the recommendations and trust Mr Šadurskis as the responsible minister that the Commission will do its job successfully. Several commission researchers are ready to accept state secret, so that the KGB documents can also be studied at the Totalitarianism Impact Documentation Centre located in the secret regime building. And the state must ensure that the admission procedure takes place in accordance with the laws and regulations - as stipulated in the law. Significant shortcomings in the work of the KGB Scientific Research Commission were not highlighted and there were no objections to the use of financial resources in the Saeima’s Committee on Requests. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “Hello!” ) It was. That is why the Group of the National Alliance will vote against the opposition's request to the Prime Minister, Mr Kučinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U9	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U10	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I will also call for this proposal to be supported in this situation, even though I have been very sceptical of this whole origin around Czech bags since the beginning of the 1990s, when one piece of these bags came at my disposal as a journalist. But at the moment, it is a really important and serious issue for the nation and the country. But what do we see? Every day, there will be an endless show that... The commission said that Maisitis was making his blood sign, Shadurskis was not playing to hide in accordance with the rules... One of these show participants does not have a full clock, as young people now say. And the Prime Minister should be clear about this. The other thing. The Saeima. When we passed that law, our intention was to explore, but to explain, how to make public what to publish before the bags were opened. That was the determination and logic behind the law. At the moment it begins to appear that there will be different interpretations of the law as to what the commission is then tasked with. It seems that there could be different interpretations for the Saeima, for the government and for the commission itself. Mr Baloža has already mentioned the rejection of the Saeima's Request Commission... It argued that ‘the relevant provisions of the law have not been infringed in the matters specified in the request’. But that doesn't mean that the law is being enforced... and, above all, how it's done. Unfortunately, I have to say that the beginnings of this mess may already be found in the Saeima by means of a law. We were subject to this pressure and tarred sacs “Open cheque bags!” “Open cheque bags!” , without thinking much about how to do this and what will be made public. If we now look at what the law says, why is that commission needed? The Commission is carrying out a study in accordance with the objectives of the law. If we look again at the objectives of the law, there are six points. And then what really applies to the work of the commission? One point is about research. The Commission shall carry out a study. The order of the Cabinet of Ministers narrows this issue in 2014. What is the purpose of the Commission? Perform research as well as evaluation of material and moral harm. Well, I think that a great deal of material and moral damage has been done, but well, the Commission still needs to assess how big it is. In fact, there is also possible interpretation here of the Commission that both the Saeima and the government have granted the Commission unconditional grant studies. Yes, there may be stocks of articles; there may be presentations of books; there may be conferences; there may be missions. And there's no objection. What will the Cabinet get from this commission? How will it be published? What will be the recommendations? What do you say? We do not know at the moment, but it should even be very much exacerbated. The nation's conviction is raised: when the contents of Czech bags are revealed, then we will find out who the people in power are hurled behind those Czech songs, and then we will discover who is responsible for the fact that we are living so badly. And some glowing intellectuals keep up this illusion: let's find out what's in Czech bags, and then everything's going to be okay! Don't think about elemental things... We know that Members and Ministers are simply not there now. And it will be a huge disappointment that just those check cards will be thrown out. As Mr Janson said, there is no need to look around that cartet. But nothing else could happen at the moment. And then the whole lustration will grow into a huge frustration. And it's an illusion that those whose names are in pouches are kept in check. More importantly, more importantly! - that those whose names are not in pouches, those whose names have disappeared from there, are subjected to blackmail so that they may be denounced. Yes, it sounds paradoxical, but the whole essence of the Czech bag is in the question: not what is in those bags, but how is there no more in those bags? Who and how is missing? And a good researcher will find these traces with the existing content that's left there. And the question is, is it the commission? At the moment, there are some publications that tell the employees of the Czech Republic that there are already independent Latvian ministers and Members whose names are not in sacks and whose names we will not find there... but they are given hints that their words have been there. And this is one thread of blackmail: your name may appear there! Of course, it would be easy to make cheque bags and say: yes, there is no one, everything is clean, everything is very good! Four thousand cards are there, we know. And we also know the number, that there have been 25 thousand agents. One fifth, even less, is in these bags. And it would be good if the researchers were also to explain this fact. What is the commission doing? I think it is high time to clarify this issue, to put it right. I can't say that the commission works wrong or out of law. Yes, they do what the law allows, but it is also very important for us to compare whether we, the Saeima, the government and the Commission themselves now have an equal, similar view of what we want from the committee. And, I allow, the Saeima should still work on this when it comes to the finish line before the contents of these bags are published. So I believe that the Request Commission should not have rejected the request made by these Members, and even if it is perhaps not ideal and very precise, it should have supported it at least in part or at least reworded in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.... transform the matter into a matter for the Prime Minister. At the moment, without pretending to know and continuing the entire circus that is going on here, we simply fixed the check-bag issue to the theatre, but let's get it under the carpet. I call for this request to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U11	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U12	Good morning, colleagues! I think you will be on a visit today, Mrs Mūrniece, then you should not stop me, but - as it may be. Okay? This request already contains a code to the absolute contradiction, colleagues! First Secretary of the Communist Party Saldus District Committee Augusts Brigmanis (ZZS) from 1985 to 1987 worked... then founded in 1990... One of the founders of the Communist Party of Latvia, currently the Head of the Request Commission, who receives 800 euros a month on his salary. Mr Brigmanis from the ZZS has a salary of about EUR 3800 (Interface.) ... 22!... 22 requests have been made to this commission, led by former Communist Brigmanis, who, in my opinion, is proud of this, and all requests have been rejected on pay. The request asks for answers to very important public distressed questions. In order for Communist Brigmanis to understand how sad these issues are, I will try to visualize them. In the 1930 ’ s, in my family home in Teika, my grandfather hid five people in the cellar of the Jewish family for over one and a half years. They didn’t come outside, they didn’t see the light of the day, because there was a Czech “Pobeda” or “Berta” around and they collected them all away. It was in Teika, Riga! How many years has it been since 1940, Communist Brigman? What is clear to me about Communist Brigman? I don't have any questions there. I have a question for the other Members who have voted against this request. And their names are: Ryan, who are you? - A deputy on that commission... and you receive EUR 300. You voted against. How could you even raise that hand against, a representative of the National Union?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You told me... And what did she tell me? She told me she voted against because... If she voted in favour, Kučinskis would have to resign. What's that nonsense?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's go, Minister... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena: “You just didn’t understand!” ) What is the difference? They are all ministers. There's a question about that, here...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U13	Keep the debate, Mr. Neighbours.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U14	Please, I told you, don't stop me. How long have you been? You've been through three minutes! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U15	Please do not talk to the chair of the sitting. You may be deprived of your name. Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U16	So she voted against because she thought the government would fall. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “I don’t think the government will fall!” ) Mrs. Reindeer does not understand that this is a demand. Request for answers to questions: No question has ever been raised by the Committee on Petitions. Of course, many of the ZZS also voted against. Good job, Many! Hari of Unity, Crowd of ZZS... I don't know if he was or wasn't a Communist -- as if years allow him to be a Communist... Kozlovska from ZZS. Hello, Kozlovsky! You are still a new Member. Malace, it's a very good vote against! Lobby-Egnere. Nice seems to be a wise woman, but from Unity, and vote against. There you go. Maker... Where's the plant? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Ražuks: “I’ll be right there!” ) Good morning, Mr. Gauguk! The producer also votes against. And these people from the coalition do not support a proposal that is vitally important for the Latvian nation as such. Finally, please open the debt, which is a Communist, who has said he is a Communist, who is a Czech, not a Czechist. Right? It's a normal thing! ( Intercretion: “Sugar! ” ) I was not confused. I think you're confused... There's... You are searching for fleas... Well, if you find that perhaps a word has been miswritten, let's accept it by asking how the commission spent this half a million... Now explain! All right, don't explain! You can't explain that, can you? Then the question is... Well, if the commission is set up, then perhaps tell me what those bags contain. No, you can't! The national association with the former men of Mūrniece is on the verge and says that we are going to open sometime at that time. Sometime then! Society demands to open it now! You need to pull the length and stretch the rubber, stretch the rubber, stretch the rubber, stretch the rubber! How many years will the rubber be stretched? I understand that this is how you stick to each other, because maybe there, I don't know, a career ladder or something like that... Mr. Brigmann, again... will have to lead the next political group and so on. But the very essence: the First Secretary of the Saldus District Committee of the Comparty is voting against this request, which asks for information on what has happened to both this money and these Czech bags! It's... We're... Brigman, how much we llamed a year ago at the same commission that was headed by a former man of Murniece! We met at the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application, where you told the whole of Latvia that, yes, you are a Communist, because your father made you so that your life would be better, and you called me an idiot. And in all this strange event, it's the same thing that SAVE is voting in favour. Those who should have voted against are voting in favour! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “It doesn’t make you think?” ; dep. I.Rijana: “You don’t understand what you’re talking about!” ) I am shouting here that I did not understand what the request was about and ask whether it made me think about it. It makes me think. I wonder why the National Association voted against. ( Internouncing call.) I wonder why the Unity voted against. I wonder why it is good for you to wear this check bag for so many years. I saw those bags in the pictures, unfortunately. Don't worry, I haven't been there. ( Internouncing call.) Oh, by the way, I'm not there either! ( Internouncing call.) But those bags are real-old potato bags with holes. Mrs. Laizane, we saw in the Commission what these bags look like. They look terrible. We were given pictures (or maybe you weren't, maybe once again Communist Brigmanis led the sitting, I don't know, I really don't remember). These bags are old potato bags with large holes - real physical holes. And society as a whole already knows that Godman has gone out of them. I heard Latkovsky said he'd come and explore how... Some researcher will investigate... By what year? By 3087, he'll explore who's gone out of that bag?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What lustration are we talking about here? What's that beast? It's not like that! It doesn't matter at all! It is important to break down the hand brake and prevent this important demand - one of the 22 current... tear down the hand brake so that no information can be obtained about it, because the public does not need to know it! It turns out that... Well, it turns out that former Communists and Czechs, in principle, are in my country... does not let me know who the Communists and Czechs who have done to us are who have taken my relatives away, who have simply destroyed hundreds of thousands of families, who have done all of this genocide against Latvia! I can't know this because former Communists and Czechs run my country! What's going on? Please support the further development of this request. I want to see you vote. The public also wants to see your vote. ( Interface: “The request will not open the bags! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U17	The name of Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U18	Hello, colleagues! What is happening now is, in my opinion, what should have happened without the various requests from the opposition. Because now we are discussing this issue, not under a deck. And it's not a separate subject from the opposition sitting somewhere on the back of the promise. Inguna Rībena, Valdis Kalnozol, Juris Viļis! Come and talk about these problems... Very good! Don't do this in the style of some good colleagues - don't start remembering old jobs, you fuck up! It is also part of parliamentaryism, but that is not what we have to talk about today. We need to talk about what is of interest to the people. Here, too, the parents were mentioned. My father was a fisherman - he went to the sea. He's already dead. And there, in Mersrag, there was rumors that among those on long-distance Atlantic voyages... that among the four five fishermen there is one who works there - in that canton. And all the time this shadow of doubt has been over those people who came to us, over those people who left somewhere. Yes! And no one knew who could be the Czech rapporteur. I think at times too, but what if? But what? And I think it's so many. Of course, these bags are not the real ones, they are the good ones, they are the fat, those lush KGB agents who are now working for the main intelligence administration... What the hell is that? - It's called this service in Russia. And then it began, as the Communist Party manifests: "The ghost of Communism is going through Europe." The Spectacles of the KGB bag wander through the Saeima for fuel time. The neighbor has seen in photography how the bag looks! Neighbouring, you'll tell me how those bags look? I haven't even seen the Phochens. Some have seen it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: Grey potato bags! ) I think that is good at what we are doing now. You got to talk! And the KGB, or Czech bag research commission, has to read carefully, try to remove the ash from the grain. Pelavas are our mutual insults, but the grains said by Ilmārs Latkovskis... look at how the government works and keep track of it, rather than simply let everything go by definition - what the opposition is encouraging is bad! I may not agree with Mr. Adamson's political views. John, I haven't explained what these are to you. I'll feel about it. I have an idea of what they could be. But your many proposals for drones were perfect. They were rejected! On how to limit drone flights over public spaces and kindergartens, and so on. They were good. But here you want everything from the opposition. We try to talk about Czech bags today, so that the KGB Scientific Research Commission reads and quotes, and continues to work. Because that's what we have to do here. Therefore, Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs is already coming to talk about foreign policy. That is why we are all on our feet and talking about these things, because Parliament is what gives bread to the President of Latvia, including ministers and also to the Czech bag research committee in a parliamentary republic. Let's go, colleagues! We are here to talk about these problems, not to take pants, but to talk about them. Thank you. I'm in.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U19	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U20	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! When I heard all the speeches that have been made so passionately here, I had to come to the platform and briefly explain both the substance of the demand and the opinion of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. First, if we are talking about publicising the KGB documents in general, then the Group of the Regions of Latvia believes that they should be made public. However, the demand was not about publicising or not publishing. Let me begin with the second question in the request. This was about funding. There was a concern that the Commission examining these documents would not have any funding next year. In particular, the Commission must work until 31 May, but in the budget we could not find the funding that this Commission would have provided for. We received a reply from the Commission that the funds have already been transferred during this year and that the Commission will complete its work by 31 May. So at least we got an answer to that. The next item concerns the review of the Commission's performance and the proposals submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers. This question arose to a large extent because on November 13 we all received information from the media that the KGB's document investigation commission had addressed the President of Latvia with an invitation to publicise the KGB documents. Accordingly, we concluded that this commission, which is investigating KGB documents, has also explained in depth to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Education and Science why the KGB documents should be made public, and that there are problems in communication there, so the commission is addressing the President. Indeed, at the meeting of the commission, when the minister for education and science was present, we were convinced that these communication problems existed. Even though we then learned from Mr Kanger, Head of the KGB Committee for Study of Documents, that there was a disagreement as to whether or not the members of the panel should submit a questionnaire so that the documents could be submitted at all. There are a variety of solutions. For example, those documents could be taken out of the space where they are currently located and could then be viewed without due permission. In words, there is one hundred and one solution, which could, however, contribute to the Commission's work. And, of course, we all hope for it. What concerns me even after the meeting of the Request Commission is a shift away from responsibility. We have, of course, delegated the responsibility to the Cabinet of Ministers by law, so that the Cabinet of Ministers allocates the necessary funds and follows the commission to complete the work, but at the same time the Cabinet of Ministers (in the person of the Minister of Education and Science) tries to shift all responsibility to the Commission only. On my own behalf, I would like to say: if there is no outcome on 31 May, there will be no opportunity to understand how everyone will be able to get acquainted with the KGB documents, then to a large extent I will have to agree with all the critics who have spoken today about the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Education and Science, who have not sufficiently monitored and provided all the conditions for this Scientific Commission to complete its work. And the last one. If, as Mr Latkovsky said, neither the Saeima Member nor the ministers are in these so-called Czech bags, the more their content had to be made public for a long time, so that the public would now look at the end. None of us can rule out that there is no one of our relatives. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) And then let's look at it, let's look at it. Hopefully this relative will still be alive – he will be able to go and ask him, “What was it?” And if he's guilty, at least there's a chance to talk to him and finally make a decision to forgive him or not. Finally, he will also have the opportunity to confess his guilt, repentantly repentantly. We really do not shock the public and ourselves for how many years now, at the same time realizing that those check bags do not really contain the information that we all have here... such a bull is blown up. Therefore, as I said at the outset, the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia is in favour of publishing these documents. We invite the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Education and Science to do their utmost, create the conditions so that the Scientific Commission can complete its work and we can then publicise the content of these bags. Thank you for your attention. ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U21	The name of Member Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U22	Honourable Members! Two things. It's very short. First. Mr. Neighbour, there is a law of Murphy. A.Kamiņš: “Yes!” ), which sound like this: do not need to... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t vote against!” )... There's a different word, but I'll say so: you don't have to argue with a specific person, because those who listen can confuse who is who. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, why is she talking to the grass?” ) I will therefore not discuss this with you. And the other. The head of the Commission, Kārlis Kangeris, publicly told all Latvia a few days ago that the Commission was working and that the result would be. Point! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Where does he work? What are you talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U23	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U24	I would like to say that everyday life shows that the influence of the KGB is still affecting us. As confirmation of this, I would like to mention the fact that a high-level official of the Ministry of the Interior, whose work has been under the control of the Security Police for years, is being deprived of admission to national secrecy. And most interesting: then this high-ranking KGB officer gives a well-paid job to this high-ranking official. I'm sorry, any information analyst would think about it. Second... ( Intercretion: “This is not the law “On the Secret of the State”! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U25	Mr Kalnozol, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Secret”” is an agenda item 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U26	... daily shows that the network of KGB agents is still in use... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “He doesn’t understand!” ) And most sadly, this network of KGB agents covers corruption in our country and theft of the state. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: Mr. Kalnozol, this is not this! ) Undoubtedly, many have been removed from the KGB archives (Dep. A.Judins: “He doesn’t understand the question, help him!” )... This is also confirmed by the fact that the former members of the KGB of the LSSR (Dep. Mr.Judins: Mr. Nanozol, the question is on the demand! ) - that during the LSCR the cases of many responsible officials were taken out of these archives. What else do I want to mention to Mr. Neighbour, in order to educate him in connection with the great reproach on our Mr. Brigmanis? The Czech Republic was an institution of subordination to the whole unit, not an institution of subordination to Latvia. And not the Communists regulated what is happening in the Latvian SSR KGB, but the whole union determined. And, Mr. Artus Kaimiņa, I was also a young, perspective specialist who was advanced during the time of Gorbachov to change the system that we had in Soviet times. And you don't have to knock on those young, promising people who were working at that time and trying to sort out the system at that time! ( Milestones.) What do I mean? Maybe we will end up hunting witches and arrange our country for the main function of the country to care for the welfare of Latvian citizens, for the welfare of Latvia! Let's get out of all kinds of shit! We work together to be good owners in our land.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U27	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U28	Colleagues, friends! This is our mess just confirms how a mirror to a mess, something around this issue is at all levels. That is why I am calling for this request to be supported. I cannot show my solidarity with some of the most famous slogans here, which also called for support, because they are caused by a lack of understanding of the substance of this request - I am sorry to say so! - also because of a lack of knowledge of the law, because the demand really is not about whether to open or open. The law says: Open and when. The question is only about the quality of the bag and the quality of its work. It's just a question! And more. If you read the law, then those who feel the victims of the Czech rapporteurs can find that they already have the right to know all the rapporteurs and what has happened there. Who are really victims, not imagined of themselves. There's a lot of emotions here. And I'm sorry! - I'm touched by those who say that it's not because of them that they need to open the bags, but that they need to stay there more easily. Well, crocodile tears! But this demand is simply to be welcomed if we approach sensibly, because it will make us move forward rationally on this issue and much less to deal with this chaos.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U29	The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U30	You don't have to tell me now what the demand is about! The demand is very sensitive. And then when the magma takes its hands, then the coalition's faces are stiffened. Really?Oh, no, no, no, Indeed, the whole Saeima coalition sends Ryben and Nanosol to talk about this sensitive issue?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Are you serious?Oh, no, no, That's all you have? Is that all the powder? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena: “Next time, come to the meeting of the Committee on Petitions!” ) Is there no more? Really no more? Riena and Kalnozol will defend the coalition on the question of Czechs?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U31	Mr. Neighbours, please speak on the request. Go back to the subject! In the debate, no deviation from the subject can be allowed. You may be deprived of your name.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U32	I'm back. So one of the speakers, the FAO representative, mentioned here that in the far, right, sunny 1987, when one of the RFMO Group leaders at the time became the first Secretary of the Comparty... Let's... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “It’s not about the demand!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U33	Talk about the request, the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U34	... there were many talented young people there. One of those talented young people apparently was enough... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U35	Mr. Neighbours! Please talk about the substance of the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U36	I am referring to the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U37	No, no. Please talk about the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U38	How do we... Please tell me what has been done in the commission with half a million money? What has been done? What about all these bags? Maybe give me a step forward. The public is interested, wants to see... And what I hear behind my back is a single hammer. Amur kicking! Mrs. Moore, you have that... should be real right now... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “There will be a need for further information from the psychiatrist to allow speaking!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U39	Do not debate with the Chair of the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U40	Really! So the perspective people in the far away in 1987 were Brigmanis, Lemberg, Reir. What else was there? How many old Communists were there? ( From the ZZS fraction: “Clear off the microphone! ” ) I mean... What else was that? ( Internouncing call.) You didn't even know where Latvia is.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U41	Mr. Neighbours, I have already told you, for the third time, to talk about the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U42	In any case, please be so kind and yet this request... You cannot support it! Now you can't. Because, re, the previous speaker will come again and try to revitalise this former Communist. My grandmother, who today is 80th birthday, said he's not trying to be a former Communist. No, no! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Come on!” ) So they remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U43	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U44	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In 2014, when the Saeima amended the law on KGB documents, the Saeima decided that the contents of Czech bags will be made public. At the same time, the Legal Commission of the Saeima agreed that the contents of Czech bags should not be made public without research and without comments. We have already decided that the contents of Czech bags should be made public. Now it's a question: how do we get there? The deadline shall be mid-year. A year ago, we heard in the Saeima that there were problems with the KGB's research commission. Unfortunately, colleagues, we did nothing. We listened and didn't act. We are now in a situation where, at last, commission researchers have requested permission for national secrecy to work with the contents of these bags. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “It’s over!” ) We have good news that the work can be completed within six months, but unfortunately we have no confidence that it will be completed. And we should not shift responsibility for completing our work to either the Cabinet of Ministers or the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible. We ourselves here in the Saeima, where we have decided that the contents of Czech bags should be made public with comments - we must monitor ourselves in order to be qualitatively researched, qualitatively commentable and in a qualitative way made public. Colleagues! As we all know, there are legislative commissions in the Saeima (the Legal Commission agreed that the contents of bags should be made public) and supervisory commissions to monitor the implementation of our own decisions. Colleagues! We need to agree which of the 10 monitoring committees of the Saeima (Dep. A.Kaimiņš: “The Sports Commission!” ) will follow this process, invite representatives of the Commission to report every week or twice a week on how the work is working, whether there have been tolerances, how the analysis of the contents of bags is progressing, so that we can finally come to a situation where the contents of bags have been studied, commented and made public. And then this circus will end. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U45	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U46	I'd like to say, maybe one of the Swiss people in this hall is red in order to say something, whereas no one is touching me here. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U47	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U48	It is really interesting that, on this issue, some particularly passionate speakers must say that with the clearest, purest intentions, they have come and supported this request. In principle, those who are undoubtedly associated with today's federal security services or at least some of the persons associated with them. And in the case of those who speak. I could introduce Mr. Kaimina to an interesting fact that I could find in a few minutes. In particular, there are those who - perhaps also Mr Kaimiņa knows - have participated in the construction of Communism and have received prizes for their cultural contribution to the construction of Communism. I think these facts need to be known, and they also need to be openly discussed. I really believe it is right to make the cheque bags public. I regret that the Commission and the Ministry of Education and Science have so far not done enough to ensure that this research is carried out qualitatively and that this publication is subsequently made as high as possible. But what I can say is quite clear and bright: in the next year, cheque bags must be opened. They must be made public and everyone must have access to the contents of these cheque bags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U49	Name to Member John Ruck.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U50	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to support what Mrs Chiganne said: this would be an excellent result if we could agree on a supervisory commission that would monitor this process and, as you say, hold your hand on the pulse. The only question is how to deal with Members' requests? Maybe they should be taken out of the Order Roll? Because if all the commissions are to carry out parliamentary monitoring at a good level, such requests will simply no longer be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U51	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is the request on behalf of the Commission to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U52	So once again, colleagues, the essence of the demand. The essence of the request is about the public security... ( Milestones.) Maybe you should keep the room quiet.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U53	Silence! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Please continue the debate. Impressions in the hall! Dear colleagues, Order reel predicts that the intersage in the hall is permitted, but please show respect to the speaker in the courtroom! Please continue on behalf of the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Maybe you need to get everybody out so you can speak up alone, huh?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U54	The Commission looked at the results of this historical study committee. That was a very specific question. Very specific questions on both the use of the Commission's funds and on the results were examined. And once again, I recall what many speakers have emphasised today, that it is not about opening Czech bags here. It was precisely on the substance of this request that it was also decided to reject the request, because the work of the panel was assessed in a generally positive way. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It’s enough! Very good!” ) Of course, we stressed what might need to be updated and further developed, and this also involves resources. But when it comes to the substance of the demand, this is the result. The other thing I want to say, colleagues. To avoid any misunderstandings. Of the applicants, only one was present at this commission - Mr Viļuma - and, with all due respect and honor, he defended the request. All this number of glittering speakers... Mr. Balozh, I didn't see you there. You could have been, participated, reasoned... Now to say that you don’t know anything. — Dep. I.Rijana: “No one saw the village either!” ), to be honest, is a little bit specific. That's the other thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Brigman, you have rejected everything! You rejected everything 22 times! 22 times! What do you get for?” ) If we are talking about Artus Neighbours, who seems to be outside the commission... ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Yes, it is!” ) very pleasantly, colleagues, that we each have formulated our own views and those of others. I have also formulated my opinion on you, and thank God that I have done so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Well very good!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Inguna Silverba, Nellija Kleinberga, Ringold Baloža, Jānis Ruka, Gunāra Kūtra, Aivara Maya, Jura Viļuma, Vara Krūmiņa, Mārtiņš Šics and Rihards Melgailis' request to the Prime Minister Māris Kučinskis “On the Results of the Research Committee of the National Security Committee of the LSSR”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, for - 51, for - 3. The request is rejected. On the agenda - Examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U56	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” is related to the already adopted Social Enterprise Law. No proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Anti-Corruption Office”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U58	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! No proposals were received for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention and Combating Corruption” as well as for the second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U60	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U61	On the agenda: Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U62	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law Amending the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts. The Commission has received one proposal for a third reading. 1. - the proposal from the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U64	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U65	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third final reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda, the third reading of the draft law on the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U66	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document No 4297. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law at third, final, reading. We did not get any proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft law Amending law on the Interim Agreement on Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central African Contracting Party, of the other part, third reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U68	We work with document No 4298. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law and has not received any proposal. I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the Interim Agreement on Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central African Contracting Party, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft law on the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, third reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U70	We work with document No 4299. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this. No proposal was received. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft law on the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, third reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U72	We work with document 4300. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this. No proposal was received. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U73	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft law Amending law on the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Côte d'Ivoire, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, third reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U74	We work with document No 4301. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law. We did not get any proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Côte d'Ivoire, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U77	On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Railways, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U78	Good morning, Madam President, honourable colleagues! We work with the draft law Amending the Railway Law (No 1025/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined this draft law at third reading. I would remind you that the draft law concerns the possibility for the passenger train carrier “Passenger” to refrain from paying penalties for late payment of railway infrastructure bills. Two proposals were received for this draft law at third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U80	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U82	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Railway Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 24, for - 1. The law is passed. The name of the Member, Ivars Zarins, on behalf of the Group, for the report on the grounds of vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U84	Hello, colleagues! The report by the political group on the motives for voting in accordance with the law... on the draft law amending the law on rail. 7 December of this year in Riga. The draft law provides that a carrier providing rail passenger services on the basis of a public or municipal transport contract (contract of order) may, exceptionally, agree with the railway infrastructure manager or the operator of the service facility that the statutory interest for late payment may not be charged for late payment. The justification for the need for such a draft law is linked to the fact that the government, contrary to the provisions of the law, takes decisions which make it impossible to fulfil the obligations laid down by the law, namely that the carrier is not to grant sufficient public funds to enable it to pay the invoice issued by the public railway infrastructure manager in good time. On the basis of Article 11 of the Railway Act, the State has made a commitment from the budget to compensate for the cost of using railway infrastructure for the transport of passengers on domestic routes by rail. On the other hand, the provision of a public transport service on regional intercity rail routes is regulated by the Public Transport Services Act, on the basis of which an agreement has been concluded between the Road Transport Directorate and the Passenger Train, which provides for compensation for the costs of the use of railway infrastructure determined in accordance with the applicable legislation. In addition, Para 18 of Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No 435 provides: If the State Budget Programme Public Transport does not have sufficient resources to fully compensate for losses and expenses, then the Cabinet of Ministers decides on the amount and source of the necessary funding. Instead of being conscious of the requirements of the law and confirming compliance with the principle of "One Law - One Justice for All" written on the wall of the meeting room, the government has chosen to circumvent it, and therefore proposed a draft law for the Saeima, which states that the government will not comply with the obligations of the law, but any responsibility for it will not arise. This was the result of this bill as a clumsy attempt by the Saeima to cover up these efforts by the government, trying to implement the principle of “One law - each one of his own righteousness”. It is unacceptable for us to have such a legislative principle that amendments to the law are made to make it easier for the government to make decisions that prevent the state from fulfilling its obligations under the law. That is why the Group is voting against this bill. ‘ One law - one truth for all”! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U85	On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Rural Support Service Act, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U86	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Rural Support Service Law” (1036/Lp12), third reading. The Commission has received and supported one proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ringold Arnisch.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U88	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Support Service for Rural Development"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U90	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared for third reading a draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”. We have received a total of 29 proposals. The proposal is a proposal from Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U92	2. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U94	3. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U96	4. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U98	5. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U100	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U102	7. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U104	8 / 8 - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U106	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U108	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Commissioner's proposal, Edward Smilten. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U110	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U112	12. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U114	13. - also the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Gerhard. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U116	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U118	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U120	16. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U122	17. - Member Smilten's proposal. Proposal 18 has been supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U123	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U124	18. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U126	19. - The Commissioner's proposal, Edward Smilten. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U127	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U128	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U130	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U132	22. - also Mr Gerhard's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U134	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Commissioner's proposal, Edward Smilten. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U135	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U136	24. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U137	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U138	25. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U140	26. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U142	27. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U144	28. - Member Boki's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U145	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U146	29. - Member Boki's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U147	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U148	Please support the draft law in third, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U150	Good morning, colleagues! Amendments to the law on detention procedures. I would remind you that they are aimed at making prisoners more successful in their resocialisation. Four proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U152	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U154	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U156	And 4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U158	So please support the law at third, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U159	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U160	These amendments to the law are also aimed at making it easier to resocialise prisoners. Four proposals have also been received here. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U162	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U164	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U166	4. - A proposal from the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U168	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U169	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U170	Good morning! Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”. The amendments to the law were prepared at the initiative of the Ministry of Defence and the National Armed Forces of Latvia, taking into account the concept of State Defence set out in point 107. The Commission has examined the draft law and I call for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U171	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U172	21 December
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U173	21?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U174	December.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U175	Thank you. Proposals are due by 21 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Deposit Guarantee”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U176	Good morning, colleagues! We are working on draft law No 986/Lp12. The Commission received seven proposals for a second reading. 1. is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U178	2. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U180	3. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U181	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U182	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U184	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U186	6. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U188	And 7 is also a proposal by Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U190	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U191	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Deposit Guarantees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U192	The deadline for submitting proposals is December 19, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U193	Thank you. Proposals are due by 19 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Credit Register Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U194	We work with Law No 955/Lp12. We have received nine proposals for the second reading. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U196	Two more. - Legal Bureau's proposal - the Commission has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U198	Also 3. - Legal Bureau's proposal - supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U200	On the other hand, 4. - Legal Bureau proposal - partially supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U201	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U202	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U204	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U206	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U208	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U210	And the final one is 9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U212	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U213	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U214	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U215	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep Ones of the Land”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U216	Madam President, Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and prepared for the second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps”” (No 1076/Lp12). Two proposals were received. 1. - Legal Bureau's proposal - the Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U218	2. is a proposal drawn up by the Commission itself, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U220	We have therefore examined the two proposals and, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U221	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U222	We will wait until December 12, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U223	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 12 December of this year. Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, I invite everyone to the opening of the exhibition “The Eye of the Saeima Child” in the Great lobby. In the Red Hall you can see the exhibition of paintings by the 10th Saeima Member Māra Ironkalns, which we opened this Monday at the same time as the discussion “The Saeima for People with Disabilities”. Name for the statement to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U224	Dear colleagues working in the Saeima Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please gather immediately to the committee meeting in the Yellow Hall!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U226	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Solvita Āboltiņa, Inesis Boķis, Raivis Dzintars, Jānis Kžads and Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U227	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U228	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting. Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Lithuania Čigāne, Judins, Loskutov, Gauguks, Straujuma, Abu Meri, Kleinberg, Dalder, Spolitis and Lībiņa-Egnere are asked to amend the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include a draft decision on the monitoring of the activities of the Special Interdisciplinary Commission on the Studies of Documents of the State Security Committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? “ Yes, ” he said. Yes!’ ) So one can talk about, one against this amendment to the agenda. ‘ Lolita Čigāne, Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U229	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, It is clear that we, as a parliamentary republic, have a very important role to play in Parliament. We need to exercise control over how our own decisions are being implemented. We had a wide-ranging debate on this already before the break. In 2014, the Saeima adopted a decision that the content of so-called cheque bags will be made public, but it will be published together with comments and studies made by the so-called KGB Document Research Commission. Dear colleagues, Today, there are many questions in society as to whether this commission is working well. It is our responsibility, the Saeima, to ensure that this commission works successfully and fulfils the task assigned to it - by May next year, to draw up a report and to make public the content of the KGB bags. In order for us to fulfil this task, we must agree who will be responsible for this. Because we already know that nobody is in fact responsible in situations where everyone is responsible. Thus, it is proposed that the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity should regularly monitor the work of this Committee on the study of the KGB documents and prepare a report on the monitoring process by May. Dear colleagues, I think this is just a logical proposal on how we can achieve the good result that our society has long been waiting for. And I remind you: we already agreed on this in 2014. So that I ask for this draft decision to be supported in order to ensure that the parliamentary committee - the supervisory committee - exercises control over this work. On receipt of regular reports (Dep. A.Kaimiņš: “Why this commission?” ), the public will have the opportunity to follow this work, to see what the responsible officials say. And in this way we go to (interface.) The centenary of Latvia will arrive at the result that we, as a society, have long deserved - the contents of Czech bags will be published with sound, researched and meaningful comments. Please support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U230	Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U231	Dear colleagues, This is not a question of opening cheque bags at the moment, nor of other things. This is a matter of strict control and supervision. I am against the fact that, in such an hasty order, the issue is being put on the table today (Dep. R.Balodis: “27 years have passed!” ) is on the agenda. Mr Baloža, 27 years have really passed. That question must be resolved once. ( Internouncing call.) That question must be resolved once! But strict control is required. In this case, Mr. Maizins should be called to the commission, the responsible minister - the Minister of Education and Science; the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister, will definitely be called to the committee. My proposal is to consider this issue when the Chair of the National Security Commission is also present and to refer it to the National Security Commission. At the moment, we cannot put this on the agenda and decide. The fact that this control is necessary - that is absolutely clear! But there is the question: how strict will this control be in the Commission, whose main task is monitoring the Citizenship Law, rather than monitoring the safety authorities? I call for a 'no' vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “Let that commission work!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U232	One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on supervision of the activities of the Special Interdisciplinary Commission on the examination of documents of the State Security Committee to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 15, for - 10. The agenda has been amended and the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. The next item is the Bureau reports on own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Chigan, Judine, Loskutov, Gauguks, Straujuma, Abu Meri, Kleinberg, Dalder, Spolitis and Lībiņa-Egnere have submitted their own proposal – draft decision on the monitoring of the activities of the Special Interdisciplinary Commission on the examination of documents of the State Security Committee. We need to decide on the way forward. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Dear colleagues, It is not a debate. ( Interface: ‘How is it not a debate? ’) ) There is a question: does at least one Member object to the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of this sitting? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) “Yes!” ; “Ir!” ; dep. R.Kols: “Yes, yes!” ) There are therefore objections. ( Milestones.) Consequently, this draft decision is on the agenda for the next sitting of the Saeima and will be discussed at the next sitting of the Saeima. Thank you. We are continuing with the examination of the draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U233	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” at second reading. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has received and examined 11 proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U235	2. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U236	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U237	Hello, dear colleagues! In my opinion, no one needs to remind here how public research has assessed the attitude of Latvian citizens towards the Saeima or their confidence in the Saeima. The second figure, which I think is very well known to each of you, is how many citizens take part in the elections. If you are satisfied with this situation, as is currently the case, then I call on you to vote against this proposal. I am certainly not satisfied with this situation, and I have already been putting forward two years ago a specific proposal on how a little, even a half-sacrifice, goes to it so that people can vote with a sense of responsibility and know what they vote. Unfortunately, my colleagues in the Commission then, listening to my proposal and arguments, the house with their head and said: “OK, good, but next time.” Three years have passed, and I would like to ask: what the Saeima has done in these years, so that we change the electoral system a little, and people do not crave about it: go or do not go to vote, what will be the result of the vote... This system has not been changed for years. I understand that some parties very much like this system, because it preserves the opportunity... so-called party control over the parliamentary elections, sometimes it can also be called party dictatorship. Latvia has established that only parties are entitled to nominate candidates. By the way, it is only in two European countries. Moreover, for the second time in 2014, the OSCE indicated to Latvia that this inconsistency with democracy had to be eliminated. In Estonia, every citizen can lead himself as a candidate. And would you therefore say that the Estonian Parliament is worse? Is the electoral system worse if people re-elected their self-nominated candidate? People trust, vote for a certain person, and they know that their vote as voters has not disappeared as a result of the vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kola’s intermediate call.) My specific proposal is a little half of the promise to move forward with the system that is currently in place and with which everyone is dissatisfied, Mr. Cole! My offer is to restore what was before the war in Latvia, namely the so-called open lists. In other words, voting is maintained on the same proportional principle that has been and has been recorded in the Constitution, but the voter has the right to write down three more people from any other list. ), by nature, giving these people an extra bonus. Good statemen can be on different lists. Then why not allow Latvian citizens to vote for good citizens? Those who are respected and respected by society, and not just every Member to hide on his party list, knowing that a person on a party list does not have to be held accountable for his work, will put him in the same way. This would give the voter the responsibility for what he elects, as well as for each Member of the Saeima, as he would know that people can also vote for him on an individual basis. I therefore call for this opportunity to be supported. Moreover, in order not to compromise my personal or our party's interests, I would like to emphasise that this proposal concerns not the 2018 elections but the 2022 elections. I call for support for the proposal to make it possible for people to vote for individuals in elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U238	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U239	The opinion of the National Administration and Municipal Commission was that there was a need for a broader public debate on the Member Kūtra's proposals - including the next percentage change - and that is why the Commission rejected this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U240	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Curra's put forward a proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -9, for -47, for -26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U241	3. - the proposal from Member Chigan. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U242	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U243	4. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U245	5. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U246	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Curra's put forward a proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 9, against - 68, refraining from - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U247	6. - the proposal from Member Chigan. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U248	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U249	7. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U250	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U251	8 / 8 - Member Curra's proposal. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U252	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U253	Dear colleagues, This is the second proposal, which is a little different from the previous one. I very much liked the rapporteur saying that there was a debate in the Commission and a call for a debate because this issue would be more public debate because there was not enough debate. I am very pleased with the "active" discussions in the Saeima on how to develop our electoral system. For three years "active" we are discussing how we should develop, and now again "active" we will discuss the need to discuss what has been discussed for 20 years! The 1922 Saeima Elections Act did not provide for any percentage barrier. Yes, there was political fragmentation, and some say, "Look!" At that time, however, the people's representation was more complete and democracy was more effective. In addition, the laws adopted were of higher quality. And today we still use the laws of that time, because they were qualitatively adopted, so that society understood those laws. Moreover, governments were more stable at that time than they were today. The stability of the government is now based solely on an agreement between the coalition parties and not on the government being supported by the people. At the time, the government had to rely on the government document adopted being acceptable to the people, because the Saeima did not have the sort of coalition it is today. Yes, the Constitutional Court once said that the five-percent barrier can be proportionate. However, international experts in this area have made it clear and clear that the five-percent barrier to a proportionate electoral system must be regarded as the highest possible option. In addition to these problems, I have to point out that the judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union Egils Levit said: “The judgment of the Constitutional Court does not rule out the possibility to reassess it in the light of political developments in general.” Overall, taking into account the various other issues that concern the same subject as well! And we have here in Latvia a whole range of problems with all the details of democracy. I pointed out in advance to the inadmissibility... the legislative inability to nominate candidates from other parties... Not just from lots... The general criticism of legal literature is expressed in violation of the principle of equality in the rights of political parties. If a political party in a country is already registered in accordance with the rules and if only political parties are entitled to nominate candidates for Members, then differences in treatment between political parties are not allowed, allowing some to take part in elections and others not. That is, these are the fresh amendments - it is the annual censorship and 500 members... In addition to these problems, the existence of a percentage barrier also prevents a large part of the population from being represented in Parliament. If you believe in public opinion research, only three parties would now have been elected to the Saeima. Imagine these political forces! Imagine what a coalition between them might exist, or finally there would be no coalition in the Saeima, and everyone would act on their own, every political party! And what if, in such a situation, one party got an absolute majority? Who would throw the pelts with? Maybe we should not finally conclude a coalition agreement? How many voters would these Members represent? If about 50 per cent of voters are not elected, then in fact 25-30 per cent of Latvians would be represented in the Saeima... citizens. Is it really a real representative body of the people? Moreover, this set five-percent barrier also has a negative impact on the outcome of the elections, because when a person goes to the vote, it is often possible that he would like to vote for the best programme... Unfortunately, according to the President of Latvia, or after reminding journalists, he simply goes to vote for some major party (do not give God that the voice will be lost!) . I therefore call for the percentage barrier to be reduced to three per cent, starting with the 2022 elections, in the light of our current political activity and the position of the people against the parties. This would indicate that Parliament is the representative body of the people, not the representative body of some parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U254	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U255	There was a little confusion, because that was not what the proposal was about... on the interest barrier. At this point of confusion, I call on you to listen to and support the proposals made by Member Kūtra, because they are very appropriate to the situation of the parties and elections that have developed in Latvia at the moment. And, speaking of the previous arguments, I call on them to be supported also from that point of view... We are concerned that many voices still fly into the wind, especially Latvian parties are worried about it, and this will be the case in the near future. Similarly, the previous arguments are remarkable: not to cycle into party dictatorships, because - early or late - party politics, party democracy as such has no future. And because we're going to hold on to it, because the worse the end will be. So I am asking you to listen to Member Curry's proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U256	Name to Member Ringold Balodim. I just recall the substance of the proposal - about the deletions.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U257	I would also like to ask my colleagues to support Mr Kūtra's proposal, because it is really a very bad situation that is beginning to develop. In essence, the amendments with which we once restricted the possibility for parties to participate in elections, provided that they have to be registered one year in advance... and have 500 friends... All this really draws to such a conscious set of circumstances as Mr Curry quoted. Egil Levit believes that, in fact, in a situation where certain electoral groups do not have the right, let us say, to submit their lists, it may appear that only some three parties (and obviously that is also the intention) will enter the next Saeima. A way is provided to enter the next Saeima and rule forever and for a long time. Well, that's not the right approach to things! That is how we, on the one hand, will make people not participate at all in the elections - that is what we are going to do! - for people to be completely excluded from parliamentary democracy. In this way, if we want to strengthen the existing power, we will go through a deep bog. Since this proposal must, of course, be debated, as Mr Schulz said. But that's what we're discussing in the entos for years, and it's getting worse and worse. Because if we are talking really about how to improve the current situation with us, Members of the Saeima, with our quality... It is about introducing a mixed electoral system. Unfortunately, we cannot do this if we do not take a referendum, because that article actually... it is not to be changed by the Saeima. Yes, this should only be changed if the people support its amendment. Therefore, colleagues, this is at least some solution in the right direction. I ask you to support Mr Kūtra.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U258	I closed the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “On procedure!” ) Or on the procedure... Is that so? Please turn on the microphone for Alexey Loskutow!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U259	Proposal No 8 cannot be put to the vote because we rejected 2. - the proposal by Mr Kūtra, to which the proposal 8 relates.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U260	We're consulting with... Yes! Indeed, the proposals are intertwined. This is also recognised by the Legal Office. However, these are all put to the vote proposals - on a case-by-case basis. This is the opinion of the Legal Bureau on these proposals. The debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U261	No, there's nothing to say.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U262	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Curra's put forward a proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 8, for - 73, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U263	9. - Member Curra's proposal. It has also been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U264	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “The whole month is over!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U265	I agree with you, Mr. Curry. I agree with the previous proposals that you have tabled, that there may be open electoral lists, that the voter himself can write down... This would involve greater public involvement in political processes. All this is right! But this proposal... The fact that you propose a reduction from five per cent to three per cent - I think it is wrong. You mentioned the 1922 Saeima Elections Act. Then, in turn, I would remind you that the same year's law, the same law, stipulated that every political party should have its own programme and that it should have 4000 characters. This number, 4000 marks, was determined precisely because at that time Latvia was a very poor country and there was a lack of paper. And because of the lack of paper, there were 4000 signs. So from 1922 we've been... It's almost 98 years since, but this theme has remained 4,000 characters... So that can and should change because... Now, 4,000 will show the party program... it may be read only by political scientists, but not by society. I think... Well, let's... I myself have set up a new party - the KPV LV - and I can tell you very well, Mr Curry, how the whole life of this party is going on towards the next municipal or parliamentary elections. As it is, I've felt it on my skin. And what is right, and what is wrong here? Five percent must be maintained. Well, let’s assume that the party “From the heart to Latvia” now has a bad rating... This does not mean that now, let us assume three percent of Mrs. Silver will also be in the next Saeima. Well, let's take it, right? But you have already mentioned that it will be on 2020, 2022, Mr. Curry. I think you have to do more and work better to have those five percent instead of changing that percentage barrier. The fact that we have a party cartel is true. We have coalition treaties, the coalition council, which is an anti-constitutional formation that decides on Mondays what colour cards you, the coalition parties, will show each other. That is indeed the case! But to change it, it is necessary to speak to every citizen and citizen of Latvia, so that he gets involved in these political processes, not just sitting aside, watching and complaining, and saying: “How bad everything is!” For if you don't do it yourself, no one will do it in your place. ( Internouncing call.) It's about it: if there's three percent... It won't help! Then there will be even more fragmentation. And we've, to say, already gone through the fact that years have to be... one year before the elections, the party must be already registered. Then it will not be that any new projects will be "accepted", say one month before the elections. That can be the case! 500 members already need to be registered in the party before the elections. Some new parties have a problem with it, I'm in the course of things, yes. ‘ CPV LV’ is not a problem with this. Just need more work. So I realize that the coalition itself... coalition parties figured that they needed these 500 members, that they needed a year before the elections... This is done specifically to have fewer political competitors. But when you've passed this lock in political competition and you understand: yes, you're over those five percent and you're gathering those 500 members, you're over that year before the elections, and as you can really start in the elections, then you're starting to worry from the other side. Then disseminates some information about some kind of criminal proceedings, you start to be called a person accused of serious crimes...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U266	On the specific proposal, Mr. Neighbours. It really is about an electoral barrier of up to five per cent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U267	... Mr. Kitty knows nothing about what he himself is. And that's how this system works.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U268	Talk about the proposal, Mr. Neighbours.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U269	And the citizens of Latvia should worry about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U270	On the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U271	Therefore, Mr Curry, these three percent will not make Latvia happier. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported and for every Latvian citizen to be involved in political processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U272	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Nothing is to be added. Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Curra's put forward a proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 8, against - 76, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U273	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Curra's proposal. It has also been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U274	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U275	11. - Member Curra's proposal. The Commission was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U276	And this one, too... This proposal, however, is not to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U277	All the proposals examined by the Commission have been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U278	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U279	We will wait until 14 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U280	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 December of this year. On behalf of the “From the heart to Latvia” fraction - Member Gunārs Kūtris. Report on the motives for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U281	Colleagues! Our group, of course, voted in favour of this draft law, because we understand that there is a need for the things voted. However, with regard to our proposals, we say that the country... and the people of Latvia have long been calling for a more radical solution to the election of our parliament. Today we see that this Saeima is not ready to change and improve the electoral system. Today's votes on the proposals in this draft law, which is absolutely not radical in nature, simply showed that the Saeima did not want to turn face to the voters. These amendments proposed that the so-called open lists should even slightly increase voters' turnout in the elections so that no voter's voice would disappear so that as many voters as possible would be represented in the Saeima. Perhaps colleagues are afraid that through their work every voter will have to prove their ability to act for the country and for the people. It's safer not to change anything and leave everything old. We look forward to the future. We believe in the people of Latvia and are ready to submit much clearer and more radical proposals for amendments to the Saeima Election Law so that people can freely nominate candidates for Members and this is not just a party dictatorship. In order for the voter to be free to vote for a particular candidate and to be liable to him, the elected Member would be personally responsible for his own work before his own voters. That there should be Members in the Saeima who trust the people, who have a clear vision of the development of the country and of the welfare of the people, and who have proven it through their work. Today's vote on the proposals, on amendments to the Saeima Election Law, only shows once again that Members are unable or unwilling to trust voters - the people of Latvia. At the same time, it also shows the political unwillingness to develop and improve the electoral system in Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U282	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Secret”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U283	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Secret”” is on the agenda, second reading. A number of dozen proposals have been submitted to us, some of which may significantly change the procedures for obtaining admission to national secrecy. And despite the fact that the majority of members of the commission have not supported any of the proposals made by Member Valdis Kalnozols and virtually no proposals made by John Adamson, the Commission had a tempestuous debate about them. In the headline “Mortumon Panorama” this morning said that they were chaotic at times, and that was the case. The proposal is made by the Member Inta Dalder. This has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U284	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U285	The proposal is also from Member Inta Dalder and has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U286	Members of Inta Dalder's proposal is assessed and not opposed to the Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U287	3. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U289	4. There is a proposal from Member Valdis Kalnozols and their commission has not supported it either.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U290	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U291	Dear colleagues, Read the 4th proposal by Valdis Kalnozols! I quote: “... access to state secrets shall be granted to the Speakers of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, the Prime Minister and the Ministers who have gained the confidence of the Saeima.” The keywords are: “allowed”. There was a decision of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court to arrange Latvian legislative documents relating to state secrecy. I asked the members of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption: “How is this problem addressed in other European Union and NATO countries, especially our neighbours - Estonia and Lithuania?” I didn't get the answer. General, I'm not gonna say anything... Different things I can imagine. You shouldn't reinvent the wheel! If we do so, it must be well-founded. Some Members consider that the fact that the examination of a person is to be carried out within 30 days of the date of receipt of the application is contrary to the first part of the proposal, which provides for access to national secrecy upon taking up office... I can't see the contradiction. The candidates for Members are also checked - if they are in cheque bags, if they are criminally punished. Well, some kind of check is already taking place when it comes to the elections. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U292	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U293	Hello! We are the leaders of the people, brothers and sisters! We're not servants! We're in the land! We turn aside, straighten our shoulders, and fuel the remnants of the slave’s soul! We set an example for Latvia's people, what good owners should be in their country! We, not security services, are the highest power in Latvia. Voters have entrusted us with representing the interests of the people and Latvia. The Constitution of the Republic of Latvia is written (Listen!) : ‘The Saeima shall itself verify the credentials of its members.’ I also invite lawyers to listen! The family itself checks the powers of its members, not the security service. My proposals. We, the Speakers of the Saeima, decide which members of the Saeima and ministers to deny access to Latvia's state secret, not security service. Not the security services, but we, the leaders of the people in the Saeima, will determine who will be a minister in Latvia, who will not. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “We already determine it!” ) We are changing procedure for the protection of state secret, which affects the loyalty of the leaders and ministers of the people to the state of Latvia! Let us! - we are the ones who decide who the leader of the people or the minister supported by the Saeima is loyal to the state of Latvia, not security services in their secret corridors, exaggerating the grounds for their decisions. The statements of some Members that Members of SASKAJA are already a priori irresistible to the state of Latvia are not met with criticism. I would recommend that MEMBERS OF THE INTERPRETATION should refer such abusive statements to the court or to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application. A couple of days ago, I sent you a letter describing the screaming problems in the security system of Latvia, which I mentioned today. Too much influence of the KGB in them! It must stop!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U294	Mr. Nunozol, on the proposal! Address the debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U295	The system that the security services themselves, and not the Saeima, decide who will control them, must stop. It must be ended that the tolerance to national secrecy is used as a weapon or method of fighting competition between them in order to establish relations with opponents. There are plenty of ways of ensuring that the country keeps a secret, as is the case in America, Germany and many other countries of the European Union. Facing Latvia as a loyal leader of the people to perform their duties fully is the most powerful way to protect the state's secret. I'm sorry, Members. Please... I'm sorry! Please, Members who so much want the security services to have the highest power in Latvia, explain why you have such a wish! Do you work with them in the hand? With the KGB card you're made a puppet? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Time!” ) Why do you want to be so dependent on the KGB’s legacy of tortured security services? Why do you so much want them to decide on the loyalty of the leaders of our people to the state of Latvia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We arrange both our country and the state security services, freeing them from the remains of the KGB! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Time!” ) We support the proposals for amendments to the law, so that we are owners in our own country, not the victims of the KGB heritage of Latvia's security services! We're not a straight voting machine of security services! We're good owners in our land! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “But you voted against!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U296	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Tell in your own name!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U297	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U298	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -7, for -69, for -5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U299	Okay. I will not speak as beautifully as Member Nanozol because, unfortunately, I am speaking on behalf of the Commission, I must be laconic. 5. - Member Adamson's proposal. The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U300	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U301	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, I would like to present once again to all those present the substance of the proposal: ‘A special permit for access to national secrecy is not required: 1) Members of the Saeima, upon entering the post after the solemn pledge has been handed over and the signing of a binding declaration that the Member undertakes not to disclose the State's secret, or 2) officials elected, appointed or approved by the Saeima, after the signing of a binding statement that the official undertakes to preserve and not illegally disclose the State's secret.’ Let's take a look at this inscription! (To be indicated on the plate attached to the wall of the Saeima meeting room.) It says: “The sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia.” It is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. The people delegate their right to represent them, as Mr Nanozol has already said, to a hundred of their leaders. Now, though, some officials come to the fore as to whether these hundreds of people can fully carry out their duties. The decision is made by people who have not enjoyed the trust of the people and society! Let's go. The Saeima shall appoint or approve the President of the State, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, all judges, the Prosecutor General, the Director of SAB, the Commander of the State Ombudsman, the Commander of the NBS (may continue this list), but the decision on whether or not they can stand for these... not to stand as candidates, but whether they are able to perform their duties shall be appointed by individual officials. Listen, you don't think that's absolutely absurd? Is that democratic or not? This yell, with the permission of the country's mystery, continues! It started with the adoption of this law at the end of the 1990s. The nature of the problem is simple. I will remind you of the history that many people are talking about here, but which everyone has forgotten - every government, every political power, coming to power, tried to set up a special service. In this way, the Security Police was split and some functions were transferred to the Constitutional Protection Bureau. A counterband centre was set up in advance (also as a result of political intrigue), which was not otherwise referred to as a centre for the fight against competitors. The KNAB was then set up to fight its political competitors. And the kind of formation that then... partly disappeared after that, it was without its end! The question is only one: will we respect ourselves, our constituents and fulfil these responsibilities? The greatest thing that also reveals what we talked about in the Commission was the following. What seems to be positive? What both I and my colleague Elksniņš joined four or five years ago - the need for a decision by the court - is to consider the substance of the case: why the tolerance has been withdrawn or no tolerance has been granted. This is a positive aspect, which also arises from the judgment of the Constitutional Court. But the decision about those who can make this sensitive judgment is made by certain maplers who have not enjoyed any trust. We elect judges for life. The decision whether or not they can carry out their duties in full shall be taken by individual officials. We allow many sensitive issues to be decided by the judge, but those concerning the tolerance of the state's secret - no. He is not entitled to take a decision on these matters. It's absurd! Colleagues! However, I call on you not to be subject to all kinds of pressure, all kinds of puppets and to support my proposal. But with regard to what is involved in possible guilt or innocence, colleagues, let us be correct! If there is evidence, come before the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U302	Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U303	Good afternoon, colleagues! I like the reasoning that invites me to look at myself as the best carrier of power. Even geographically, it is not too far away from the country where this principle works in its entirety. The Queen of Britain does not have a passport, because the passport is issued on behalf of the Queen. The British Queen has no driving rights because... This is also allowed. If we have the highest authority over all, maybe we also have the right to drive after office? Who can afford to check Members' health? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “What foolishness you are telling! The final butter is propelled!’ ) Who can afford to send a psychiatrist to receive the driver’s right? Let us be realistic! If we are already representatives of the people, leaders and people elected, we should hardly be subject to lower standards in ensuring the security of our country. If a person can become a Member without examining his physical or mental health or his addiction to gambling or alcohol, at least as regards access to the country's secrets, such verification must be necessary. Position doesn't free a person from illogicalness. Position doesn't release a person depending. The post does not free a person from inadequate health. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported and for common sense to remain. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U304	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U305	I like listening to these people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I've been an entrepreneur and mostly an employer. And I don't... I feel like a master. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ) I don't understand these kinds of ideas - maybe we'll be at the bottom, maybe... Let anybody decide there how my company... whether I will be the owner or not. If you have such thinking, Mr. Loskutov, okay, that's fine. I don't have that. And what else do I want to show? I agree with Mr. Adamson. The generation of our security services is organised only for the purpose of settling relations with one another. And if you would very much like, I would be able to take part in an analytical debate over the hours and say that this authorisation is given by people very closely linked to the security structures of the former country, the USSR, the KGB. I think it's absurd that we still depend on them! Think about what you are doing, dear friends!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U306	The name of Member John Adamson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U307	Colleagues, we can talk a lot about one another's colleague. We can agree, we can disagree, but we should never forget that here each of the leaders of the people enjoys the trust of Latvian society and citizens. That's one. Second. If we look at those who check. Information is published in the mass media, which is not overturned by anyone. Let's say, one of those reviewers suddenly bought property in Ikšķile, which is not cheap, someone is driving cars that, whatever I like or don't like, are not even sitting next to the Saeima's fleet; someone can buy property somewhere in the coastal regions... and it's just about the little alder that the special services get. We can discuss the former Prosecutor General, who was suddenly denied permission, even though this should be done because the operational development materials, which is one of the greatest secrets, are suddenly introduced to foreign specialities. We can discuss too much. But here we return to the substance of the discussion. Who should define the internal and foreign policy of Latvia? What are they? Are they Members of the Saeima or individual officials who, before the decision to grant an authorisation... One former minister mentioned that she was trying to recruit SAB to provide information on what was happening in the Cabinet. Our colleagues - Mr Money and Mrs Brok - suddenly did not get permission for national secrecy at that moment...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U308	Mr Adamson, your debate is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U309	I'm done. ... at the time when the privatisation of Citadele took place.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U310	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U311	(Interjection.) I'm not coming, Mrs. Barch! I think that is perhaps understandable and it is not surprising that certain representatives, especially in this information war, are trying to discredit our national security authorities (Dep. I.Zariņš: “What are you embarrassing?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ That cares for the security of the country and protects its independence. But I wonder that in the same style, without real arguments and facts, the Saeima Member from the ruling party - the Prime Minister's party. And it is done in about the style in which one appeal in a club came from our colleague: “Do you know who I am? - Deputy!” That certain privileges and permissions arising from the post are automatically due... I think every one of us must understand that in this way we discredit ourselves. It should be understood that different tolerances or privileges in the performance of their duties are due, not according to status, but according to the individual’s personal characteristics, from the ability to hold information (Interview.) (in this case, from the ability to keep your mouth and information out of any abuse or neglect). And, as Mr. Adamson asked, is it normal for allowances to be decided, as it is written here, not on the nation that is the highest sovereign power, but on the staff of the special services? Mr. Adamson, yes, it is normal because we all, as Alexei said, are subject to the law, we are all citizens who have their own qualities. And in such a case, at least citizens have confidence that there is someone who checks it all, because the services know, I think, a little more than an average representative of society, whom we meet, whom we are talking to and whom we are expressing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “You are no longer in Unity!” ) I therefore call for this to be rejected and ask Members to abstain without facts and arguments to undermine the reputation of the institutions that take care of our security! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U312	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U313	Good morning, colleagues! I'll be very brief. We understand very well that when we start in the elections, voters choose us as their superiors by following what we have written and promised in our programmes and by taking into account our human relations with them. And it has nothing to do with allowing the country to hide. If we were only judged by that, then we, all a hundred who are here, could be SAB directors. Definitely! No problem at all! But the national safety authorities evaluate what we have never told our constituents and will not tell them. That is why it is also perhaps symptomatic that, most of the time today, here in the platform came and said that all this is bad, are those who have been deprived of these tolerances and who perhaps do not have the hope of receiving them. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U314	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U315	What do I want to remind you? That my and Adamson's proposal is not that if we see that a particular person is dangerous to Latvian security, we would not deprive him of the permission to the state's secret, but rather that we would take away this permission, not someone there - in some narrow corridors. And why don't I like to get off these narrow corridors? You haven't read my letter. One fact I said. A high official of the Ministry of the Interior, who has been controlling the security police for years, is being deprived of admission to the country's secret. And who gives her a job after that? KGB officer! Well, citizens dear, dear, nice, what are you saying about that? Go on. There is a question that I asked, but no one has answered: how does it come to pass on national secrets to business managers who are clearly linked to the National Security Committee? What about Eto? Same as the Saeima building. How's that? The family building is built without any security tolerance, and it seems normal for everyone. And these authorities will still control us! And the most interesting thing is that the company that built this house... Its owners are the masks I met 20 years ago, and as far as I was aware, these masks are also linked to the KGB. ( Milestones.) Where are we, dear friends?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And you say: we must allow these services to say what is a loyal, which is not a loyal one. Well, think, friends, a little salt with your brain, don't just be button-plugging!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U316	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U317	Dear colleagues, It is a little uncomfortable for me that in Latvia, suspicions or accusations may be made by a person personally from a parliamentary tribunal. And it once says: “You know, here comes to speak to those who have not received or are afraid not to receive permission to have access to state secrets, they are defending this direction.” Then I will say: as well as those who come to speak the opposite and say that everything that the security services do is fine, there are in fact those who fear that they may be deprived of this authorisation. Because you don't know at all how this exclusion or allocation can happen. You don't know... Those who have not worked in these services do not know the basis on which to judge all of this. It can be said in the newspaper that you've met with it and it's a sufficient argument. A man who with all due respect for the restoration of Latvia's independence... He's standing there... which has created a serious military... led by a serious military service... Then he is told: “You are not loyal to the state of Latvia!” It's not absurd? I think we should ask the Saeima analytical service to give a clear assessment. Not the information provided by the security services, but the objective information provided by the analytical service. Is it really in other countries, or is it really in Germany, that a Member of Parliament is not entitled to decide national laws because he has no information available? A Member of Parliament shall have the right to consult all information necessary for the adoption of this law in order to decide, perform its functions. Otherwise, it would be absurd for the security services to determine the extent to which a parliament can judge, to what extent - cannot judge. I think we really need to think about another thing. There are military secrets. Yes, there are NATO secrets that people who work with them must have access to. But there are country's secrets, which are our own country's economy, our own country's thieves. Do the people really... Is that so? No, it's not written there... only the fact that the people in general are allowed to lead the country. The nation is realizing it through its representatives here. And those who are representatives of the people here have the right to get to know information on behalf of the people in order to decide on Latvian topics, Latvian laws. I therefore think that the proposals are entirely logical. And if our own security services don't arrange this law in such a way as to be clearly distinguished, what secrets they have access to... For it is not the fact that a Member of the Saeima receives a Member's mandate that means that he has the right to receive a driver's right. It's demagogy, just trying to take something with stupidity... In fact, the mandate means that a person has the right to decide the fate of Latvia - the fate of Latvia here. And he has the right to know all information so that Latvia's fate can be decided. I therefore call for support for this proposal, but for security services to think about how to distinguish between different types of secrets. And even when there is a mandate, or when there is access to a state secret, no official receives all the secrets - they receive the secrets necessary for the exercise of their powers. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U318	The name to Member Alexey Loskutow, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U319	As a lawyer, I prefer to discuss with lawyers. And especially when lawyers forget about their legal status and suddenly say: “The mandate of the Saeima Member is indulgence. The mandate of the Saeima Member shall forgive all sins of the past.’ Let us all look at the realities of the Saeima today! If any of the protagonists of the so-called "Rīdzene" oligarchs had been elected to our Saeima, then, as experience shows, they would be... one of them would have a rather real chance of being elected to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. And then it happens: if this proposal had been implemented, this person would have had the opportunity to ask KNAB to allow him access to the operational file, because the mandate of the Saeima Member means that he has access to the state secret. Do you not think, colleagues, that this idea is absurd at its very root? Once again, I call for common sense and for this proposal not to be supported. ( From a political group, ‘ Hate! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U320	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur explain the Commission's position on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U321	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that the Commission's sitting was much more passionate than this sitting, and the chair of the Commission - I really had not seen him - remained pale and began to scream out loud to the applicants. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U322	But what about the substance of the proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U323	Was it? I don't want to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U324	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - A motion from Member Adamson! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U325	Proposal No 6 This has also been tabled by Mr Nanozol and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U326	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U327	I want to tell you a brief fact what we said to the Commission... What the Saeima said earlier... what is at all, if it speaks honestly, the work of the Ministry of the Interior. 40 percent of criminals initiated are not reviewed and are terminated on a non-rehabilitational basis. This means that any of us can, in other words, bring criminal proceedings, do not look at it, and then he will not have to be allowed the secret of the state.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U328	The speaker therefore supports the Commission's view. I closed the debate. Members of the Committee's proposal... ( Interface: Vote!) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 73, it's against - 9, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U329	Not supported? Supported. That's... ( Interface: “The button has broken, please, prepare! ” ) Proposal
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U330	Proposal No 7...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U331	Proposal No 7 as it cannot be seen... Proposal No 7. He has been presented by a Member of the Council of the European Union, Mr. Nanozol. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U332	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U333	This is already the case if it is honest, the most important thing for people who are not Members. 90 per cent of the refusal is based directly on the article of that law. And read what the text is about - Article 9(6)! In principle, the 90 per cent refusal reads: ‘...for which the facts have been established in the course of the examination, which gives rise to doubts as to its credibility and its ability to preserve national secrecy...’ In fact, I will find to any one of you why you cannot be granted permission to national secrecy. Therefore, my proposal is to enter "in accordance with the presumption of innocence". ( Internouncing call.) No one has said: “Mr Janson is guilty!” And we don't give him right away... Let there be concrete evidence! And the next question. The basis for questioning reliability. Yeah, I'm sure I'm not trusted to Mr. Maizinis. And in this case, he said he refused to... Yeah, didn't give up because I'm not reliable to him... That is why I put a specific text in here that this is about a reliable person for the Republic of Latvia. Why do I think this is an important thing? I'll give you an example, why didn't you give me a pardon? I want to tell you this case so that you can understand and support my proposals. First of all, I was denied permission because any Road Police computer has information on what I have administrative penalties. In principle, dear friends, if you have several administrative penalties, then I can tell you: “You know, if you’re not faithful, you don’t comply with the law, you don’t have to... !” Next. That is what we talked about earlier: these unrevitalising issues. In fact, when I spoke to the Prosecutor-General and said that it was proposed to me... Clearly, someone has taken a bribe and initiated criminal proceedings. Please start! You have no rehabilitation status. And the last one. I indicated... he said: “You have a criminal case.” I say this case was organised by a former KGB officer. He says: “Oh, idiot! Where do you have data? None. It's a guy." Two weeks ago. The study group of the Centre for the Documentation of Totalitarians has discovered that this guy is an officer of the KGB! ( Independence: “You have signed for a failure to disclose the country’s secret. ” ) And what happens in our security structures? Either they're really ravens who don't know that that man was a KGB employee, or the other one - this KGB employee is working with them. In any case, it's crazy! I'm sorry, guys.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U334	The name of the Member Immant Debtor. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U335	Mr. Nunozol! You come and call Members from the troupe to take their responsibilities seriously, but you take your own action... Well, I don't even know how to call it, but "not serious" - it would be the most gentle term. I think I know why I didn't give you a pardon. Because it is written in your proposal... It may be that your presumption of innocence had been violated before you were married, you had already lost your integrity. And so you may not have been granted the permission. But otherwise when you write the proposal, be so good, please, and realize that there is no presumption of innocence. There is a presumption of innocence. If you put forward such a proposal, Mr Nanozol, you are simply not serious by definition. We cannot take this seriously. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “I have said this a long time ago – you are sick, Mr. Kalnozol!” ) It is irresponsible! That is why I cannot take your other proposals seriously too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U336	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U337	I am very sorry that the engineer builder, Nanozol, is not perfect in legal matters. I'm so sorry. I hope that you, Mr. Postman, will be built by a lawyer!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U338	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U339	Colleagues, I would ask you to be patient, because we got worse in the commission. And I'm going to quote one of the Saeima's classics, it's Valdis Kalnozols. I'll quote one sentence from him. We saw the Saeima in a stenogram. That's exactly what he said. He said: “Let us observe the Constitution, let us not prevent a people’s elected Member from expressing his particular opinion!” That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U340	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission to explain the Commission’s view?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U341	No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U342	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 53, for - 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U343	8 / 8 - The proposal from Member Nernosol. And not supported again.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U344	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U345	Proposal 8 sounds like this, listen, please: “After the Director of the Office for Constitutional Protection” (it is Jānis Maizinis today) “The Saeima decides on a ban on access to confidential, secret and highly secret state secret objects for the representatives of the people.” Not the SAB, but the Saeima decides. We have heard a lot about the spy in Estonia. I have not heard such serious cases in Latvia. I do not think that shooting a train can be considered a serious spying event. How many soldiers - the leading commanders - have been suspended from office without granting permission to the state secret? How many such cases are in the Baltic States - Estonia and Lithuania? I don't know. I don't have facts, data. But we all remember the winged saying: “Let’s go to office the greatest” (give me!) “Cretin!” But if such people decide to grant allowances? I will give you an example from only one narrow sector that I know is the defence sector. I am often asked by soldiers: “Does anyone specifically undermine the combat capabilities of the Latvian National Armed Forces without giving knowledgeable and educated soldiers permission to the state secret?” In the presentation of my book From the Rural Boy to the General, a retired colonel spoke about the idea that the security structures of Latvia, with the exception of knowledgeable and competent soldiers, are changing them to others – less competent. It seems incredible how it can be. But let's look at the situation in an even narrower sector - in the Latvian Navy - between 2003 and 2016! During this period, the eight oldest officers who were dismissed with dishonor from the National Armed Forces: Ilmārs Lešinskis (let him have a light sand!) - former Commander of the Baltic Sea Escadera (BALTRON) and later Commander of the Latvian Naval Forces (leaded in the Military School in the USSR, studied in the USA); Hermanis Černovs - Chief of Coast Guard Service; Andrejs Zvaigzne - Chief of Maritime Force Staff (twelve twice in the United States; now is the Vice-Rector of the Latvian Maritime Academy and candidates to the position of rector); Aleksandrs Vulums - Commander of the Security Command; Aleksandrs Pavlovičs - Commander of the Naval Forces; Verba - Chief of the Naval Force Staff... Now the new ones are going... ; Strarimatis - Commander of Naval Forces; Rose - Commander of Naval Forces. They are all “bad” because of the exclusion of tolerances. Numerically. Between 2003 and 2016, 90 percent - 90 percent! - the senior Navy officers have been deprived of admission to national secrecy. 90 percent! Of 161 officers of the Naval Force, 40 - almost half of all - have been denied access to state secrets. 95 percent of those officers who served in the armed forces of the USSR but participated in the restoration of the Latvian Naval Forces have been denied access to state secrets. Only two left allowed. This situation does not provide any assurance as to the quality of the safety structures concerned. I have given concrete examples. Do they give you confidence that these services work in a high-quality way? I don't get it. Therefore, please support Proposal No 8 that the SAB leader may lead to the withdrawal of the permission from the leader of the people, but the Saeima decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U346	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U347	I have a call to get out of the emotions and think about my proposal. Here there is clearly shown the mechanism - both how we protect the state's secret from the people who could disclose it, and the fact that we, the Saeima, are the supreme decision-making power. It's all solved. I do not understand why you, dear Members, are so keen to say that, under those special services, are getting down there? There's a mechanism here. If there is someone who has clear evidence about it, not something in the corridors (two road accidents, unrehabilitated... ( blah, blah, blah!) , then we look: yes, that and that man is unloyal. Okay, let's not let him in! But not in some way... Mr. Chair said that. Now listen to both the Lord of the Chair and me! There's a barrack, I'm sorry, friends! It is not the institution itself that is credible enough to decide on our loyalty!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U348	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U349	Dear Saeima! I believe that such proposals, which are aimed at the automatic allocation of allowances, are quite simply annoyance to the state of Latvia. Here too. The proposal provides that, in future, Members of the Saeima could decide for themselves not only on confidential information but also on sensitive information and in particular on sensitive information. The security service has said that this person is not reliable that it is dangerous to the state of Latvia. At the same time, the other Members of the Saeima may give it full access to sensitive information. In this case, I think I should rather talk about another thing: the security services have not been strong enough in their actions. I really don't know how Petersone-Godmane could have held high positions for so many years, get this tolerance, because in the end she took it away... Mr. Adamson, former Minister for the Interior, is now a pardon... I could call others too. For example, Shleser, who once also enjoyed the tolerance of the state's secret; Sculptle, who was active in the National Security Commission during the 10th Saeima. I think that the list can be long and wide-ranging. For example, Aigars Kalvitis, a former prime minister who went to work for “Latvian Gas” after the end of his career (Dep. A.Kamiņš: Broka! )... All of these persons were admitted to the state's secret, their activities (at least in many cases) aimed specifically at lobbying the interests of the Russian Federation in Latvia, which was also revealed in various negotiations that have been made public and in political decisions that have been made at the time - whether it be the conclusion of a border agreement or the establishment and protection of a system of temporary residence permits in the future functioning of the Saeima. These persons had a tolerance, but they did not have to be. If the Saeima had the right to decide on such issues of tolerance - what would that mean? We can remember the 10th Saeima, where we had to vote for the issue of Shleser... And in that case, the majority of the Saeima voted that everything was fine. I have the full conviction that political transactions have resulted in a very large number of people who are really doing their business (interfaces.) may be harmful to the state of Latvia, may in general vote in favour of this proposal. I therefore call for these proposals to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U350	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “35th time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U351	Mr. Dombrava and the other opponents! You don't love the Constitution?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “He loves his wife!” ) Do you ignore, insist on the Constitution?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Constitution makes it clear: the Saeima itself examines the credentials of its members. Well, read it, please! Well, respect the Constitution! And the other thing I said to the committee. We are the leaders of the people. We are here to express the opinion of the people. I'm sorry. If a nation has gathered us here and we believe that loyalty is such, then that is what it is, because the people have entrusted it to us and not to the security services. And if we here, as Mr. Dombrava says, some untrusted, we have decided so... Sorry, we are the leaders of the people and we determine what is loyal to the nation state and what is not. Not security services. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U352	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U353	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Dombrava. Unlike many who carry their own allowances, I have not requested it since 2000. That's one thing. I believe that the system itself is absurd in nature and that there would not be anything to discuss here either. Many of those who now have this tolerance wear it as a top quality indicator. Unlike many of the people present here, I know very well what is a secret and a very secret document, and I know the criteria that have been laid down - whether or not to grant this tolerance. If you were to get acquainted with these criteria, which are also a very secret document, and pass through them critically, then many of those who now have or have had tolerances would absolutely not meet these criteria. And if one of the criteria is loyalty... if one of the main criteria is that of loyalty to our strategic partner and everything else is subordinate, it raises many questions. Some of the officers mentioned by Mr. Krēsliņš were deprived of this tolerance only because they once expressed their support for the creation of the Rapid Response Teams in the European Union, which was in contrast to the objectives expressed by the representatives of the US armed forces. Not because they are disloyal to Latvia or disloyal to another strategic partner, but only because they expressed their opinion! And if we want to observe democracy much less than that, then we will end this mutual sanctification! And that our special services that work each other... the activities of the employee are questionable, now there will be those main ones that will determine who can be the Prime Minister, who can be the President, the Judge and the like... Is that so? Just think a little bit of other categories! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “OK!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U354	Dear colleagues, The Members of the Parliament are asking Mr Abu Meri, Mr Brigmanis, Mr Rubiks, Mr Berzins and Mr Upenieks to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the discussion of all the items on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. So let's continue the Saeima session without interruption. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U355	Draft law “Amendments to the law “On State Secret””. A Member named Valdis Kalnozols is not granted this permission. That is the fact. This Member has made eight proposals concerning this draft law. And I realized, Valdis Kalnozol, I think you're really crazy! You should not be given any tolerance.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U356	(The Head of the sitting shall be knocked down very loud with a hammer.) Mr. Neighbours, you are being reprimanded!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U357	It was the worst! The last one!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U358	You are reprimanded for non-compliance with the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima at the sitting of the Saeima. And I also call on you to respect the general standards of politeness - at the Saeima sitting - to address fellow Members to "you", just as other Members of the Saeima do. ( Intercretion: Thank you!) ) Name to Member Karl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U359	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, listening to all this must be said: however, maybe we cannot allow everything to be decided on our own. Because we've already climbed onto these rabbis. That is the example that Mr Dombrava mentioned... But let us also remember how it was with all the administrative punishments! A couple of times there have been refused to issue punishments to persons who held important positions at coalitions of that time or were, say, particularly important. And where is the guarantee that in another Saeima there will be no coalition again, where there will be a very important person who will probably stand for some of the highest positions in the country and who will not be granted this permission by SAB, but the Saeima will vote for this tolerance? Let's say, under the heading, the Minister of Defence... And what will I say about all this, I'm sorry, NATO? I think that the distrust that will be on its part will eliminate all the satisfaction that we will have achieved here by voting on each other.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U360	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur explain the Commission's views on this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U361	On behalf of the Commission, there are horrors going on here! There's no opinion on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U362	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U363	9. - Member Adamson's proposal. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U364	Nor can this proposal be put to the vote because it relates to unsupported proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U365	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Valda Nanozol's proposal. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U366	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U367	This proposal. I wanted to ease the case with a little salt when the court begins to look at these issues. Let it be clearly divided: Is this man dangerous for the loyalty and revelation of secrets of the state or has his leg slipped down as a child? And next. If you looked at it, if you tried to read the law “On the Secret of the State”, then you would understand that it is very absurd. Because in fact, a bread with one feather train can all ignore it if he thinks it's good. And not as the Saeima, as the highest leaders of the people, but as the Mikeitis himself, he can say: “Oh, shudder, he is a traitor! Oh, shudder, he's criminally responsible! I decided to give him permission.”
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U368	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur not want to explain on behalf of the Commission? Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - no, for - 67, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U369	11. - A proposal from Member Ainara Latkovska. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U371	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. This proposal has received partial support within the Commission and has been included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U372	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U373	13. - as I said, it is a proposal that the Commission has supported. It is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U375	14. There is a motion from Member John Adamson. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U377	15. is the proposal by Mr Adamson, who is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U378	Neither is the proposal put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U379	16. is the proposal of Member Valdis Nanozols. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U380	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U381	One minute of your attention! One! This issue is very important for the functioning of a democratic society. You believe that the people cannot evaluate people accurately, electing Members and perhaps in the future also the President of Latvia... that in the parliamentary republic the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers are unable to correctly appoint and approve the relevant officials. Maybe we want to entrust all of this to SAB or other security bodies? I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U382	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U383	This particular and next creates a procedure... I am sorry, perhaps compared to some of you, to have had my own security service led by the Head of the Earthguard Security Service. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ) So I have some connection. It's not big, but there's some connection to security issues. The chief of the Earthguard's counter-intelligence has been the head of my company's security service. The document is arranged here. If you look at these documents, which have a “secret” mark... Any normal person would smile. And the other thing. If you really want to make a great effort not to disclose secrets, there are whole procedures. If these are really secrets that can flow and the state... in one of the first, second, third, fourth or one of the categories... Now you can set up a procedure there, no matter who isn't at these secrets. But denying a Member of the Saeima to perform his duties, forgive me, is absurd. There is therefore a procedure. If the SAB director really sees... comes to us with proof that this citizen, the honour, is a representative of Russia or America or Israel's special service, then we decide. And I have a great request for people: if you get out of the political scene, please, hold back! Please keep your eyes calm, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U384	I closed the debate. Will the committee's opinion be expressed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U385	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say: we have chosen this construction that Members are not automatically granted permission with a mandate, whereas all these proposals are obviously only one - so that this tolerance is automatic. So the majority of the Commission has rejected this approach, and I call for it not to support the proposal made by my colleague Nanosol, even though I respect the right given to him in the Constitution to speak about anything from this tribunal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U386	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U387	Proposal No 17 is also a proposal from Member Valdis Kalnozols, which has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U388	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U389	Once again, so to speak, do not come here and do not show the voting buttons before you go into the depths. There's a concrete mechanism here how we... There's the first admission to a Member - he can watch such documents; there's the second, the third... And we put this whole matter in order. And not the SAB directs us, but we are our own masters in our land. If you so much want to be servants to one of the SAB leaders, I find it hard to refuse this little humiliation. Well, if you're a little hysterical. Well, baby-hunts! Mr. Neighbours, I think I would like to do this kind of small-scale thing even more.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U390	I closed the debate. Will the opinion of the panel be explained by the rapporteur? I don't know. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 3, against - 72, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U391	18. There is a Member, Adamson, who is essentially in favour of it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U392	The proposal cannot be put to the vote because it relates to those who are not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U393	19. is the proposal of Member John Adamson, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U394	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U395	20. There is a proposal from the Member, Mr Janson, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U397	21 is the proposal of Member Valdis Kalnozols, who has also not received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U398	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U399	I understand that the commission did not even want to go into this matter, for it was so sadly outrageed: “Well, Nanozol, how do you allow yourself to fight here for your righteousness?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We are all such servants, so quiet, obedient, why do you make the valves here?” No one wanted to listen to the question. This is about practically those people who will not be given up next year... they may apply to the court. They will be refused in five years. At the moment, if someone refuses the case before this deadline, he may not bring the case before the court in less than five years' time. But those who refuse to do so may immediately bring the matter before the court for consideration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U400	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U401	Dear colleagues, Well, this is, of course, a nice circus, but that's what I'm asking you, because I'm going to let you know, however, that Valdis Kalnozols is simply making these proposals... he just laughed a little, because he himself had already... He's not voting for himself! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U402	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U403	Dear friends! Honey! Nice! ( Milestones.) Well, don't worry about your sponsors!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U404	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission to explain the Commission’s view?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U405	Please support the draft law as a whole...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U406	No, on Amendment 21. We will still vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U407	No, I'll abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U408	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U409	There are no more proposals. Please support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U410	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Secret”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U411	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 21 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U412	What December?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U413	21 December
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U414	21 December Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 21 December of this year. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I have informed you about the answers to Members' questions today. On the question of Member Zariņa, Artūra Rubika, Morozova, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheradens “In connection with the replies given by the Ministry of Economics on the application of the norms of Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 221 “Regulations on electricity production and pricing in the production of electricity in cogeneration”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that it is not possible to attend the oral response because it is planned to participate in the export and innovation award ceremony. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Members' questions have been received. Members Schiffe, Kleinberg, Platoper, Smilten and Ruck have asked the question “On the provision of postal services”. The name for motivation to Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U415	Hello, colleagues! 216 The residents of Kastuļina parish in Aglona municipality have sent a letter to Members in search of justice and defence. I'll quote the message... These people are worried that this parish eliminates the post office - the only post office in Kapiņi. And these people describe all the problems associated with the closure of this post office (I quote): “We believe that this type of decision-making involves a planned and targeted destruction of the rural population. Unemployment, terrible demographic situation, medical costs, school closures, and the closure of post offices are all tended to destroy the rural population of Latvia.” They're asking for our help. We want an explanation from the Minister for Transport on how he deals with these issues.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U416	Thank you, Mrs. Schiff. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Transport for a reply. Members Pimenov, Ribakov, Potapkins, Arthur Rubik and Nikonov raised the question “On the use of minority languages”. We give it to the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U417	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Cooperation group with Belarus - for a small meeting in the Yellow Hall. Now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U418	The name of the notification to Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U419	Colleagues, please! 5 December was State Police Officers' Day. And in honour of this event, for the fourth time, we will be measuring the effort at the hockey court with the State Police this Saturday at 18.00 at the Mogo Ice Hall. Everyone is invited to support our team. And if someone else wants to train with those who have applied, today at 17:45 will be training at the Mogo Ice Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U420	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U421	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Solvita Āboltiņa, Inesis Boķis, Valters Dambe, Raivis Dzintars, Jānis Kžads, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Edgars Putra, Arturs Rubiks... Yes, thank you. Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-07-PT12-456-U422	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
