ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! Let's start the sitting on June 8, 2017! First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendment to the Mediation Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and include in it the draft decision ‘On the approval of Aivas Daidere as a judge of a district (city) court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and include a draft decision “On the approval of Inga Lipska as a district (city) court judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision on the approval of Ligitas Sprigule as a district (city) court judge to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On approval of Marina Romanova as a district (city) court judge” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Viņķelė, Upenieks, Ķirsis, Straujuma and Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš ask for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft law “Amendments to the General Education Law”. Mrs. Silver, are you going to talk about it or about it? ‘ Inguna Silverba, Member, against” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U2	Good morning, colleagues! I understand that the municipal elections have come to an end, we can now discover the true cards and start to be quick to scare reforms within the meaning of the five Members of Unity, as they are doing at the moment. I am strongly opposed to starting to address the maximum number of pupils in the classroom in a hurry. Classes, for your information, are already set up. The educators are thinking about when they go on vacation. You, of course, need to give our educators another surprise so that they have what to think about in the summer: how will the class in which they will return in the autumn look like? Although you have stated that it is possible to have a transition period of years, it is once again a time of disrespect for teachers. I call on us today not to raise issues that are normal to discuss and be seen in a much broader context. I call for such an initiative not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U3	Ms. Ilze Viņķelė has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Please support this proposal and give the draft law urgency, because I will correct the information provided by Mrs Silver. The Cabinet of Ministers has been providing the Cabinet of Ministers with the right to determine the size of classes for a year. And, Mrs Silver, I would like to point out that every day, with which we continue to pledge our young people in schools that are unable to ensure proper quality, is on our conscience. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken against, one for. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - 14, for - 4. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Convention on the International Protection of Adult Persons presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” presented by Member Upenieks, Ruka, Mežulis, Meija, Krēsliņš and Orlovas be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U6	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Both of these draft laws – “Amendments to the Sport Law” and “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” – are designed to remedy the shortcomings in the regulation of sports schools, because now sports schools are members of the federations, but if we look at the legal framework, then we can see that they can't really be there... Therefore, in cooperation with the Parliament's Sports Sub-Commission with the Saeima's Legal Office, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education and Science, these draft laws - these amendments to the Sport Law and the Law on Society and Foundations - have been created to bring legislation into line with the current situation. I therefore call on you fellow Members to support these amendments to the Sport Law and also to the Society and Foundation Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” submitted by Member of the River, Ruka, Mežulis, Meija, Krēsliņš and Orlova be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the parliamentary roll of order presented by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations and Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” to the Legal Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - 8, for - 4. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Investors” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Financial Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Settlement Finality in Payment and Settlement Systems of Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Mediation” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” presented by Member Viņķele, Upenieks, Kiršas, Straujuma and Ojārs Ērika be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda is the Bureau's report on the proposal for an own-initiative opinion. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – draft decision “On 10 594 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the possibility to receive compensation for further progress of PET bottles and other beverages packaging”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft decision “On closing of the Saeima Spring Session 2017 and opening of the Saeima autumn Session 2017”, which envisages closing the Saeima Spring Session on 23 June 2017 and starting the Saeima autumn Session on 4 September 2017. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima spring session of 2017 and the beginning of the Saeima autumn session of 2017! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Aivas Daidere as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U8	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 6 June this year, the draft decision “On approval of Aivas Daidere as a district (the hall has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) (city) judge’. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Aiva Daidere to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Aivas Daideres as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Inga Lipska as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U10	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 6 June this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Inga Lipska as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Inga Lipsk to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U11	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( The box “Governor, why didn’t you talk about the previous? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U12	(Sisters and brothers!) Good morning, brothers and sisters! My previous speech was turned into some kind of strange thing that I was against some women or young people and so on... ( Milestones.) I want to say one thing: the judge is the decider of human destiny! The judge is the decider of human fate. The fate of human beings... The position of a judge is not a place to gain the wisdom of life... I have a great request: let us arrange this judicial system! I am sorry, I do not believe in a judge who receives ten times the salary of a lawyer who attends the same hearing. Well why people, 30-40 years old (interim: “On the topic!” ) Old, the best years of your life, when you can build a career, go as judges to work (Interface: “On the subject... !” ), although the salary is ten times lower than that of a lawyer? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “Microphone!” ) Vaira Vike-Freiberga... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “On candidates!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U13	Mr. Kalnozol, I recall that the draft decision on the approval of Inga Lipsk as a judge of district (city) court is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U14	I'm talking about a particular person, I'm sorry. Vaira Vike-Freiberga pointed out that we can arrange this judicial system for the centenary of our country. Mr. Borovkov, President of the Lawyers' Society, also pointed out that our judicial system has very little confidence... as they say, very little support for it. I have a request not to support these judges, but first arrange the system for the best lawyers to go to work as judges. What do I don't like? After every judge there are people who can call this judge at some point... What do I don't like? That we are building a similar judicial system in the USSR, where the people concerned could call judges and ask them to take a decision. Let's change this system!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U15	I closed the debate. Is something to be added on behalf of the Legal Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U16	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U17	Colleagues! I remind you once again, however, of the subject. If there is a specific draft decision on the approval of a particular judge on the agenda, I invite you to speak about the particular draft decision. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Inga Lipska as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Ligitas Sprigule as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U18	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 6 June this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Ligita Sprigule as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported this draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on you to approve the Literary Sprigulis as a judge of a district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U19	Thank you. Let us start a debate. But I would remind you: Mr. Nanozol, please talk about the specific draft decision. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U20	I call on you not to support the judge in question. I invite you to remember that judges are decision-makers of human fate, and I invite you to understand that the position of a judge is not a place to gain experience in life. Let's do this, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U21	Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on the approval of Ligitas Sprigule as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Marina Romanova as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U22	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 6 June this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Marina Romanova as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Marina Romanov to approve the judge of the district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U23	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. Once again, to talk about the draft decision, otherwise the debate will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U24	Dear brothers and sisters! I wouldn't. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “You will start!” ) I wouldn’t do it! I wouldn't do it! I call for no support! I would remind you once again: the judge is responsible for the fate of the people. This is not a job to gain life experience. We'll arrange this system!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U25	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! Vote on the draft decision on the approval of Marina Romanova as a district (city) court judge. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. Honourable Members! The Legal Commission asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to consider the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Mediation” at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and that draft laws drawn up by the Commission be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law of Higher Education” at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U26	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima prepared for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment”, which provides for a gradual abandonment of the normal extended working time, or, in simple terms, for our doctors to be paid twice for overtime work, as is the case in other sectors of the economy. We have received six proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U27	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U28	2. - A proposal from the Saeima Member Ivars Zarins. The Commission has not received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U29	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U30	Hello, colleagues! We all know about this injustice for doctors. That, unlike all others, they are legally obliged to work overtime, for which there is no payment for what is due under the Labour Law, i.e. this double payment. And only when the doctors began to rebel against this injustice was started to seek a solution. Such a solution - a compromise with doctors - was found. In particular, this compromise provides that payment for these overtime would be gradually raised in 2017, 2018 and 2019, while in 2020 this norm would be abolished altogether. There was an agreement to raise certain charges. In 2017 it would be 10 percent, in 2018 - plus 20 percent, in 2019 - plus 35 percent. That was the reason why this law was opened. But what did we see in the law? In the law, we no longer saw this “steps. ” Only 2017 has remained in the law, but 2018 and 2019... What was promised to the doctors is not in there anymore... It is written there that the Cabinet will decide on it. And when I see that non-compliance, I... to keep promises from those who have made this promise to our doctors, I made these proposals. In particular, this proposal is for us to record in the law exactly what this "step" should be, which the Cabinet will then decide. This is my first proposal. The Saeima Commission, when discussing this, did not have any valid argument as to why this proposal should be rejected. And when there were no arguments to reject it, then there was no reason why the debate began, it was proposed to discuss two of my two proposals, so that it would be possible that this proposal should not be supported. Colleagues! This vote, which today will be on my proposal immediately, will be a moment of truth for the whole of society. Does the ruling coalition really care to sort out the health sector, find additional funding to pay doctors extra? Is it, in fact, simply a disgusting of the internal coalition, when the partners have decided to wake each other up in order to see some kind of support for further tax reform? Why will this be the moment of truth? I'm going to show you this right now with this slide. ( Shows the viewing material.) This slide is printed from the Ministry of Finance's website. This is the promised additional funding that the doctors promise to pay for the extra. You see several pillars here... Today we will have to vote for the upper, the smallest, so that really what is promised will gain the power of the law. If we cannot vote for the smallest today, it means that all this other thing... Make your own conclusions: how much credibility is there that this will be done?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Colleagues! I therefore call for my proposal to be supported so that what has been promised can gain the strength of the law and that the medical profession can really count on them to have this increase in pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U31	The name of Member Aija Barch.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U32	Highly honored members of the Saeima Presidium! Dear Members, Allow me, too, to talk about both motions 2 and 3, as has been accepted or permitted by Mr Zarins. In his first proposal, which is the second proposal in the table, Mr Zarins talks about the need for us to set a deadline by which this extended normal working time will be abolished. That's January 1, 2020. In the draft law, you see that paragraph 29 of the transitional provisions, which has been approved at first reading and where there are no amendments, states: “Article 53.1 of this Law shall cease to apply on 1 January 2020.” The proposal is identical. Mr. Zarins obviously hadn't been able to read the bill to the end. In proposal 3 the Member of the Saeima Ivars Zarins proposes to define this funding today for 2018-2019. But, colleagues, there's one important thing here. When we started working at the 12th Saeima, we stood on this platform, another promised, another sweared... Here are some words from our promise: “... comply with the Constitution and the laws.’ Mr. Zarins, I completely admit that perhaps in my youth and hyperactivity it has forgotten that the Law on Fiscal Discipline is in force in Latvia. Mr Zarina's proposal, which is the third proposal in the table, would be acceptable and acceptable if Mr Zarina had indicated the source of funding, as is the case with us under the Fiscal Discipline Act. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima, in cooperation with the source of funding for the Ministry of Finance for 2017 (from 1 July to 31 December of this year), has indicated, and it is a budget programme that we recognise as “02” (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) , i.e. this funding comes from unforeseen funding. My fellow Members, therefore, believe that Mr Zarina's speech at both the meeting of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs and today's sitting of the Saeima violates his promise that he made when he started his work as a Member of the 12th Saeima. He has forgotten the Law on Fiscal Discipline, its validity. I believe that every Member should be aware today that the draft law records and gives the task to the Cabinet of Ministers: show funding for 2018 and 2019 in the budget base of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, I call for neither 2 nor 3 to be supported. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. That was also the decision of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U33	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U34	Mrs Barča, unfortunately, I must point out that you have just deceived all your colleagues and the whole of society. You do exactly the same lie, demagogy - excuse me! - What you did at the commission meeting. We are currently discussing Amendment 2. You moved to the discussion on Proposal No 3! That is what you did in the commission. The proposal talks about something quite different. As you also rightly noted, the second proposal is for us to record a specific “step”, this increase in payment; this must be done by the Cabinet of Ministers. You don't know why it's all tied up now with the next proposal and you're discussing the next one that really... There is a different point, and we will discuss this when the next proposal is discussed. In turn, to put an end to all this, I offer, colleagues, now... I call on you to support this proposal, which talks about the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers... You have put yourself in this bill... there is added to it, which then it will specifically have to decide... This does not create any such obligation that you are talking about, and this is also recognised by the Legal Office at the meeting of the Commission. This proposal - my proposal - was also supported by the Ministry of Health. And so that we do not find such a raven, I call: colleagues, let us support this proposal! And I promise I will withdraw my next proposal in this case. And so this debate has been completed and there can simply be no such inconsistency that we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U35	The name to Member Aija Barch, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U36	Again. Dear Members, In front of young people - deep respect! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “50 years!” ) Mr Zarins, you took the first opportunity to speak and to talk about your proposals - both proposals 2 and 3. This time I followed the example of youth and I also spoke about proposals 2 and 3. Once again, Amendment 2 tabled by you states that Article 53.1 is due to expire on 1 January 2020; it is already stated in paragraph 29 of the transitional provisions. You would like to record the same date twice. Proposal No 3. I think colleagues understood that by supporting the third proposal you tabled, we would violate the law, the law on fiscal discipline. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “We are voting on the second motion! Why are we talking about another?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Where is management?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U37	The debate also allows Members to speak on a number of proposals as a whole, but it would be correct to indicate which of the proposals is being addressed by the Member. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U38	Yes, honourable President. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Member Ivars Zarins not to support the second proposal, because the Commission considered that his proposal had already been reflected in other points, in other provisions of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 41, against - 44, refraining from - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U40	3. - A proposal from the Saeima Member Ivars Zarins. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U41	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( The box “Recall! ”) ; dep. A.Barča: “How will it be?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U42	Colleagues! So what is this proposal about, on which is it being discussed, is the oath of a Member, the Constitution and everything else? Why did this proposal come about? It came from real, practical experience, given that it is you, members of the coalition, in creating your executive power, that violate the law themselves and do not do what is written in the Constitution. Let me first tell you about the substance of the proposal and then why it has arisen. The substance of the proposal is as follows: In the event that the Cabinet does not take the decision that has been promised to medical practitioners now, in the presence of an existing delegation, it is the law that determines what this increase in pay is in 2017, 2018, 2019. So put in the conditions that were promised to the doctors! It was promised that it would be fulfilled! This is the essence of this proposal. Why is there such a proposal? Why did I submit it? Because in reality, as we know, very often the Cabinet of Ministers, even if it is delegated to it by law to adopt the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, these regulations may also not be accepted. And that is the situation that can stand up for medical salaries, for this extra extra overtime. In particular, the current version says: First of all, the Cabinet has no specific delegation regarding what it really has to accept, what this minimum wage increase will have to be. Secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers can simply ignore it and not come with such a decision at all, although that task has been recorded in the law. We know that this is really happening, because some time ago, when we had a discussion on a similar subject, we made a review of legislation and discovered that there were 180 decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers that were not made, but the adoption of which was stipulated by law. More than 180! And that's why this proposal, which really seems to be... If everyone does everything honestly and responsibly, then it seems a little strange. But that is not at odds with all the other standards. More! The argument we have heard today... It was said that this proposal... that my proposals, what I propose, will not be in line with the medium-term budgetary framework, for all these matters of fiscal discipline. But, excuse me, if you have already promised it, it means you have money for it. That means you can do it! This means that this framework can also be changed calmly, because the medium-term budget - it is not, after all, anything ironed that cannot be changed. All the more because you yourself change it every time! I have worked with the budgetary documents and I know all this. If you look at how this medium-term budget is jumping from year to year, then you will see that just hundreds of million... everything changes... Now we are talking about relatively small amounts. And if you're bluffing about it again and say that, you see, we have some kind of framework, we've got to be in that framework now and we can't change anything, then it's just to assure you that you're not going to do it at all and you're just looking for an excuse to not do it. And therefore ye, as the devil, are ye from the cross, that the things which ye have promised be written in the law. That is the only reason. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U43	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U44	The extended normal working time is anti-constitutional, so it is the recruitment of a human being. And using this opportunity and taking into account this commitment that it will be phased out, I also support, of course, this provision on recording... the recording of what the “step” will be and of what minimum steps will be taken. But I really want to draw the attention of all of us, Members, and also voters, to the fact that we are looking very narrowly, acting like a stalemate when we apply the work directive... We are talking about only one thing at the moment – that doctors are enslaved in one workplace, but completely close our eyes to the fact that this enslavement, this training applies to work in the country of Latvia. So if you work the load and do not work in Stradiņš hospital, then the doctor also works the load of help and also in the third place, and also for these hours in Latvia you have to pay the overtime! A man in the land must not be enslaved! Europe is currently entering an even deeper discussion on cross-border employment in the context of normal working hours... It is therefore necessary to lay down these cases in law. And I think we will have to go back to these issues, because the overload with which one or different workplaces work leads to mistakes, deaths, fatigue, negligence against us, and it will have to be eliminated in Latvia at all. I call on both Mr Zarins to support the proposal on this... legalise the promises made by the government and return to this issue in any deeper discussion at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U45	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U46	I think Mr. Zarins wants to play the role of some kind of coup d'état or emulator, because in all the commissions... That was just the case with the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, where Mr. Zarins wants to resolve one day with one sentence of the law on the road fund. Here we see a specific norm about medical salaries. I will say this: Mr Zarins, money will be, and this is just a matter of time for the coalition to come together (Dep. I.Zarins says something from the drug.) Yes, today we are dealing with the situation that has now grown, but, Zarin, next year's budget is about 200 million, which will solve not only the issue of medical wages, but also the growing problems in the sector. And there is also a clear plan. There is therefore no reason to doubt this commitment at the moment. And tax reform is also seen in the context of health financing as such. Without health funding, this tax reform will not go further. That will also not be allowed for us by colleagues from coalition parties.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U47	Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U48	Mr. Zarins is very, very hyperactive. Hence, it also affects his once understanding. If it is clearly written and understood that it is a violation of the law, how can we support it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “There is no violation of the law!” ) This is a violation of the law, and come to an end, please, trade with doctors, and stop using a tube to get some benefit! If you, my dear friend, were so well-obedient to the law, then you could not have passed that law in the Saeima on increasing Members' salaries and you could have donated that money to doctors.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U49	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U50	It is very special to hear all these accusations and listen to what only coalition politicians are ready to negotiate, so that they do not do what they have promised. Colleagues, we are the ones who make laws! And if we see that some of our initiatives need to change the framework of the law, there is no problem. We do it ourselves. And if you don't want to do that, you want to find the reason why you have the bag on the floor again to meet what you have promised, it's your problem. Go on. I will answer for why I come with these proposals. The biggest problem in our country is that, unfortunately, health care and roads... Mr. Putra, those you mentioned... is falling too slowly, and it has created an illusion for you, power, that at the expense of health and the road can solve everything else. And that's what you're doing! Why do I come with these proposals on roads and on health? Because you're about to have your ambitious tax reform, in which the solution to this problem in the fiscal space... No fiscal space is foreseen for health and roads. And that is in principle wrong! And that is why I am trying to keep this debate up to date, so that when you come through your tax reform, which will occupy the whole fiscal space, both to raise taxes and to enter the budget deficit, there will also be a solution to these two problems, which have been unduly neglected and which are at the expense of all the other problems. For in fact, the main compensatory mechanisms for all your efforts, and also for the tax reform that you are preparing, are two things: human health (people are suffering and dying in queues, without waiting for their service, and medical professionals are working for the slave work) and the roads that fall apart. And I don't want to see it in my country. I would like us to have order here at last. Either you do it or you admit you can't, and go home, and stop doing these stupid things that you're talking about here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U51	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U52	Two months ago, four hours ago, coalition parties held State Ombudsman Juris Jansons there on his chair, when he presented his annual report or report. Here, in this hall, there were perhaps 51 percent of all these my colleagues who are here. You weren't here! Perhaps you didn't hear that the Ombudsman said that working day extended for a doctor in Latvia is not 24 hours, but 26 hours. 26 hours! You did this once a year, you tried to accept the budget... How long have you been here? It was hard for you, didn't it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis: “Oh, where did you sit?” ) However, they have such weekly working hours! Mr Schic, you are right: it is unconstitutional! The fact that Mr Zarins is trying to change this system now with appropriate proposals is very good. Congratulations! But the fact that Hosam rises up here in the trek and says: “This is the law! This is the law!” ... You make a law here, Hos! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri's intermediate call.) That's why you're elected here. So please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U53	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U54	Dear colleagues, As a doctor, I can say that every person has better days and worse days. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “You were a bad doctor! You were a bad doctor!” ) And unfortunately, while listening to this discussion, the question really arises in the head: why do people say what they say? Now is the essence. Mr. Zarins, no Cabinet will decide here! We will decide on our own right back in the autumn, looking at the budget for next year and the medium-term budget, and seeing what funding is going to be provided there to eliminate this extended normal working time. So this “step” has not disappeared anywhere! This was discussed at the Commission's sitting, and it was also explained to you personally. That is why I do not understand this continuous misstatement and misstatement of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U55	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will you express the opinion of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U56	The Commission is calling for this proposal by Mr Zarins not to be supported because several laws would be infringed if this proposal were adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 38, against - 48, refraining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U58	The 4th Commission for Proposals submitted by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima decided to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U60	The 5th Commission for Proposals submitted by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U62	The 6th Commission proposals presented by the Minister for Health Anda Chakša have not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U63	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U64	All the proposals have been examined by the honourable Speaker of the Saeima. I call on the honourable Saeima to support the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U65	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - Law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, re-reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U66	Hello, dear colleagues! Consequently, amendments to the Law on the movement of alcoholic beverages were returned to the Commission for re-examination. There are five proposals received. The debate in the Commission was quite broad... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U67	Colleagues, I call for the negotiations to stop! The rapporteur is on the table.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U68	Colleagues! The President objected directly to the transition period, which was considered to be too long, and the proposals tabled relate precisely to this transition period... those time limits. The debate was on two proposals. Firstly, on 1 January 2018, this restriction on plastic packaging would come into effect; and the second proposal was that it was due to expire on 31 December 2019. The debate was quite broad. There were great doubts about the six-year transitional period, so this deadline was 1 January 2018 (that is, 1, 2). There were doubts that half a year was still... that for an industry with such a high impact, it would actually be too short, because it was noted that about 40 percent... beer, for example, is currently filled in packaging, which after six months will already be prohibited. The second proposal was on 31 December 2019. This is a two-and-a-half-year transitional period, and it has also been regarded to a large extent as too long. It is likely that this could be optimal somewhere in the middle. However, since there was no such proposal in fact, the result of the vote is what is now seen here - i.e. the 1 January 2018 provided for in proposal 1 tabled by Member Romanas Mondiņš. I'm just warning you that, obviously, this deadline, if it's accepted, too, then... That would be a major change... the derogation from the original version of the draft law, previously adopted, and that law should therefore be sent back to the European Commission for harmonisation, which could take some three, four, or perhaps even five months because of the summer. And, having received this opinion from the European Commission sometime late, late autumn, the real transitional period would then be a few months. So it's 1. - The proposal from the Member's Money - received support from the Commission. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U69	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Inese Boki. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “It’s not a Member, it’s a lobbyist!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U70	Good morning, honourable colleagues! You can't talk to the hall, but I'll tell you, I'm not a lobby. I drank a few litres of beer a year, so in that sense, it's a lighthouse. ( Milestones.) I will allow you to quote a few paragraphs from the letter by Peters Linins, the Executive Director of the Latvian Beer Association: “Highly honored and respected Members of the Saeima! On behalf of the whole Latvian beer industry, we appeal to you to try to explain the situation in relation to the rushed time of the law's entry into force. We appeal to you in an open letter, inviting you to listen to the concerns of entrepreneurs and to think carefully about your position when voting for the adoption of the law. As we pointed out in discussions with President Raimonds Vējonis, entrepreneurs in the beer sector have expressed their willingness to support the decision to refuse PET production in the future... from PET bottles in a double litre package, but - moving gradually to avoid disproportionate costs which can have a significant impact on the competitiveness of local producers and without breaching the principle of legitimate expectations. When making significant legislative changes for entrepreneurs, we invite you to follow the practice adopted by the European Union - to set a reasonable transitional period of 2-4 years... “ At present, according to the Members’ vote, the draft law provides for the entry into force of the law with effect from 1 January 2018, as Mr Līdaka has already said. “We have repeatedly pointed out that in recent years beer markets... The beer market is shrinking increasingly every year and the sector has been working for several million years, too. At present, PET bottles account for 40 per cent of the entire beer market and the trend in this segment is decreasing however. Addressing the beer sector will not solve the problems of the country's alcohol consumption, but will result in unfair restrictions and losses for certain entrepreneurs who are involved in the brewing of beer in Latvia and, of course, will also create distrust... “ It’s about the principle of trust that entrepreneurs still hope for. Proposal adopted by the Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy on the period of entry into force of the law - January 1, 2018... and for the last reading approved... on its transmission to the European Commission for coordination... According to the Ministry of Justice, it would be necessary, wouldn't it? If we adopted it now, it would violate the principles of a democratic state, the principles of European Union law, the principles of equality, proportionality, legitimate expectations and the application of reasonable legal rules. In view of this, every member of the Saeima is asked to be reasonable by setting a deadline for the entry into force of the law in the draft law. And more. For my part, I would like to mention an example that I mentioned in the Commission: about EUR 0.5 million a year ago in the Krāslava brewery has bought a PET bottle filling machine. However, it is an investment in the countryside! And understand that you're going to rearrange it now and pay back in some way... As a result, both jobs and money can be lost by the businessman. And let us also respect all the other entrepreneurs and their manufacturing companies and their contribution to the Latvian economy, and let us, however, respect the principle of trust! I therefore call for the 'no' proposals 1, 2 and 3 and for support to be given to the proposals of the Ministry of Agriculture - proposals 4 and 5 - which prohibit the production of these two litres of beer PET bottles from 31 December 2019. So it's 2018... By 2020, I'm not going to grow again. That is my proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: A bad proposal! ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U71	Thank you. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U72	Ladies and gentlemen! I can see the problem under discussion in two respects: both as an economist and as a former beer drinker. Yes, I have enough personal experience to appreciate all this, and I am grateful to God for the wonderful transformations that allowed me to get out of the bog. The bog in which several of my acquaintances have already drowned. The fact that the above deadlines were clearly related to September 1 shows that most of us understand what is the target segment for a two-litre bottled like low-alcoholic beverage called beer. The cost of introducing bans on 1 January 2018 does not take into account costs that are not only monetary. The cost of seizing many young people in the mud and the suffering they and their loved ones will suffer. Do they also trust in God’s miracle? But we are not in God’s hands. God created us in his likeness, thus freeness. And the choice of action is our own. Now this choice is in our hands. I therefore call for support for the proposal for the entry into force of the law from 1 January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U73	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U74	I have to say I don't feed the beer. I drank one bottle once a year to John, so I'm not... I'm not associated with any lobby... ( Milestones.) But the question is about drinking habits. Whether the volume, the packaging, or whatever else we're talking about... but we're talking about where we're going to drink it... Will it change (The Hall laughs.) the habits of a person who has chosen to follow this path of addiction? Such amendments are unlikely to affect him. There are other instruments. I do not know why the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) Mr. Debtor, who is very active in this case, has not put forward a concrete proposal in the Commission to raise excise rates. We know exactly how many percent of this beer is there and where the problem is. This price is very inadequate in relation to this volume. I think that this is the real instrument that can address this problem. In the previous, second reading, we all talked about the Optima line, where the action: we can get two liters for the eleven cents, and so on. Well, there's that story. It is simply too low excise duties. Mr. Debtor, we spoke yesterday. You said that we are three times behind Estonia today in terms of beer excise duty. Even though we mark specifically this segment of beer at a higher interest rate for direct excise duty! Regarding the time, I do not understand why someone and the Commission could not submit a proposal for the 2018 semester. Normal time. We're adjusting for the year. When, for the sugar beet sector, everyone said three years earlier: “Please, farmers, don’t invest in factories! In three years' time, this sector will be eliminated." There was a normal transition period. Farmers restructured, these factories were harvested from the ground, where coffee and other products are being produced. Well, proportional. In this case, we are talking about some six months, about the time when, for example, the same Kraslava had even installed a line a year ago... What's going to do with that? Half a million, that's a big money. We're just playing with it... with populism wave as such. The municipal elections have ended last week. Let's not make ourselves a major populist, but let's think about how to limit things differently... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This isn't the tool! I call for proposals 1, 2 and 3 not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U75	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U76	Dear colleagues, I will certainly vote in favour of the proposals supported by the Commission, and I also call on all Members to support these proposals. Colleagues, here from the tribunal we can tell our personal experiences and certainly congratulate those who have had a strong character and enough support to get rid of their dependence. We can stand here for the specific producers. But, colleagues, it is our duty, as Members, to think about the victims of this addiction. And what is the victim of this addiction? The victims are children, and there are women who suffer from alcoholism. Dear colleagues, It is very important for us to think about how to combat this problem in a concrete way, rather than subjecting ourselves to lobbying. Those producers of this low-quality alcohol, which is packed in large packages sold to our children, our young men at a pitiably low price, knew that the Saeima has been discussing this proposal for more than two years. What is the principle of trust we are talking about here? These producers have known the damage to Latvian families caused by their cheap products. Dear colleagues, We must support this deadline, setting this deadline as soon as possible, in order to simply reduce the damage that occurs in Latvia's rural areas. Until recently, in the Sub-Commission on Public Health, we have talked about situations where women who have taken up children under the influence of alcohol take fast credit for abortion. Dear colleagues, this decision does not make it clear that this cheap big pack of alcohol will not be able to be sold anymore from March 2018... We will introduce this clarity and at least take part in some way in the protection of our most vulnerable groups in society. I call for these proposals to be supported. I also wrote a request to the President of State to hand this law over to the re-reading, because I believe that the Saeima is working hard on this issue. Please, let us finally stand up for our most vulnerable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U77	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U78	Colleagues! Everyone here tells us about their experiences. I'm talking about my professional experience this time. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) That is, I'm also going to speak as a public health expert. In particular, there are basic things that are recognised as the most effective policies for reducing alcohol consumption. And here I would like to tell Mr Putra that the size of the package does not affect drinking habits. We should remember that the World Health Organisation's guidelines highlight the four most important areas in which we can obtain less alcohol consumption when addressing policies, and these are: availability, advertising and marketing, prices and punishment policies. The package is one of the main elements of this action. This applies both to size and to how bright and attractive the packaging is. Unfortunately, Mr Putra has to say here: these are really scientifically proven intervention mechanisms, proven for years, which reduce alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U79	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Freedom for judges!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U80	Hello, brothers and sisters! I invite you to support the amendments to the law proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Why? Because recent studies show that beer is healthy, it is good for human health. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) Yes! Any items - meat, bread, kefir - that we will eat in insane quantities will be harmful to our health, as well as alcohol if we consume too much, will be harmful to our health. Next, why am I asking to support the case of the Ministry of Agriculture? Because our country has now been abandoned by 200 000 people who have gone to find a job. There's a lack of jobs. Let us respect businessmen! Let us not be disgust at entrepreneurs by changing the rules of the game every time! If we change, let's give them time to collect, as Mr. Putra said! Next. Let us fight for a healthy lifestyle rather than fight with entrepreneurs! Let us put it that way, health insurance so that people are motivated to live a healthy life! And beer in small quantities, in reasonable quantities, is healthy for the body.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U81	The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U82	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On this draft law and on the need to ban two litres of packaging, I had already spoken at the previous sitting and I said that this conversation has been in place since 2015. But in response to my colleague's call for proposals, Edgars Putra, I would remind you that I submitted proposals each year at the Ministry of Finance, when adopting the budget, to increase excise duty on beer much more than is normally accepted, and also at the end of 2014, when adopting the 2015 budget, I proposed to differentiate the rate for beer above 5.8 percent. That is, I proposed to differentiate the rate by one and a half times. At the time, the Ministry of Finance proved to me - and I really thought it was - that the European Commission or these directives did not allow it. I have now received a clear reply from the European Commission that we may also differentiate according to the amount of alcohol. Thus, a different rate can be established. Also, when discussing tax reform, I have stressed that it is a source of income or a source of resources from which we can take extra and which is disproportionate... with a abnormally low rate and being kept, is exactly beer. Well, I don't know why, Mr. Putra, you haven't heard of it. Did I have to submit it now? Well, I guess not. Now, in the context of tax reform, I hope we will come to the conclusion that it will be a source of additional revenue. And I hope that, finally, the Ministry of Finance will no longer reject my proposal to raise this rate even further, precisely for strong beer. So we're going to get to it, but today we're looking at another thing. And please close this subject! It is clear that these two-litre beer bottles should be banned. And it has been done in Lithuania several years ago, it has also been done in Estonia. Let us do it also in Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U83	The name of the Member, Janis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U84	Hello, dear colleagues! There are very different opinions, each of them coming from a good will. Some (let's say, Mr. Boki) say in good faith that entrepreneurs must be protected and that this beer must be produced, and it must be marketed. And from the good will we are actually also producing more alcohol, and from the good will we are producing work for healthcare institutions and doctors. And with good will, we are raising gross domestic product from the production of this beer, but at the same time we need to re-allocate money and provide additional funds for health care. So this is such a ring--go to the circle. And what do we want: to produce and make an economy or to produce and create a breeding cult and an imperfect nation? I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U85	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U86	Good morning, colleagues! I'm not going to share my personal experience, but I'm going to share the same technological secret as these plastic bottles. Plastic bottles made of small glass... plastic granules which, at high temperatures, are inflatable in a particular form and absorb this size and volume, as appropriate. Since changing this volume from two litres to a salt less, in my view, there is no problem for the manufacturer. And if someone looks at the shelves of supermarkets, we'll see that already one company offers the following volumes - a litre of 900, a litre of 800... and I can be sure that, when this law comes into force, the shelves of supermarkets will be full of such bottles, the volume of which will fall under two litres. So I even think that this problem does not end for two litres, and in theory perhaps we should even think about the volume of a litre, and it may be that we will ever get there. So that I also ask for support for this draft law. However, we need to understand what more of these diapers is: the benefit to the economy or the bad and the disaster to the people.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U87	The name of the Member Immant Debtor, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U88	Mr. Sergeant, the law already states that alcohol with a strength above 5.8 - not more than half a litre in bottles, but alcohol up to 5.8 - in bottles. It is not possible to determine the volume of 1,9 or 1,7 or any other. So don't deceive colleagues who may not have met the bill that was adopted! This provision has already been incorporated at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U89	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U90	Dear President, Honourable Members! I fuck the aesthetic side. I think each of us has experienced a moment when, for example, a expensive cognac doesn't want to pour into a plastic glass. Have you seen quality drinks or good beer, such as Corona or anything else in plastic bottles? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “No, you can’t!” ) And why? I'll tell you! Because every drink has its own truth. Wine is true, conjac has greatness, whiskey has adventures, water has microbes... ( Merry laughter.) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What is beer? No one comes and says it! As excise duties should be increased for those drinks containing microbes. But from an aesthetic point of view, of course, should not here promote plastic bottles. And I would also recommend to the Green Party: so we should introduce this sorting in Latvia - both plastic bottles and glass. And if he could put the glass bottles and get the money on it, it would stop this pitiful treat with this deplorable packaging, on the basis that it's cheap. So I'm calling for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U91	The name of the Member, John Crag.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U92	Dear Bureau and honourable colleagues, You know, I'm listening to this discussion, and there's such a strange feeling because I agree with you all, because everyone is very right. I will not repeat and tell you what I told you last time, the effect of beer drinking on the body of a man. Because nothing has changed there. But, you know, unfortunately, there's a huge beer cult in the world. Well, you've probably all traveled more than I and you've been in Britain, Scotland and Ireland, and you've gone into the wake up and seen it look like it. When I get in, I wonder how a man can drink such a huge cup of beer, the black Gines. I very much liked Mr. Freeer's resuscitation, that he's taken out of that beer brew. You know, I was in that guy with one leg, but only one leg, and then I realized that it was better to drink a beak. ( The grass laughs.) And, you know, when I look at it, they drink it in black Gines, I can only repeat: well, it's better to drink a half a litre of a beak than a litre of its black Gines, because it makes a more horrific impression on both the physical and mental body of the drinker. I think that very many of you have been in Germany - the Munich alus-grabos when Octoberbest takes place. You know, when you enter that room, you may feel that there's a very specific aroma in which urine in your foreheads and veins have been mixed. People are sitting at two litres of beer and blowing up. And, you know, it reminds me of a big... cattle in the shed. I've been there, and I don't want to be there anymore. And why am I telling you that? I only tell it to show that it describes my attitude towards beer drinking and blowing. I think that the stories of the Unity that my colleague said are terrible. For women who take quick credits under the influence of beer... Well, that's it... has been or has not been... But, you know, honourable colleagues, the story isn't about two-litre beer bottles. The fault is not in those two-litre beer bottles, the story is about what kind of drink you drink there. And the most true thing is Mr. Debtor, who says that they must not be strengthened... This must be banned at all, because it degrades personality and it is simply poison! But, you know, do you like wages and benefits at all? And are you waiting for the dates when a text message comes that he fell into a graveman's purse? Does that mean nothing to you? ( The box “How To Whom! ”) ) How is it, yes? You know, that's a beautiful moment when you get some kind of salary! And do you not wonder where this reward comes from? Well, do you really think we're standing here in a triple... that it produces material value? Money doesn't appear in ATMs. The money is being printed by the European Central Bank - as the European Central Bank says, it is being printed day and night there. But we have to make it, unfortunately, because we don't have to print ours anymore. And it comes from business and comes from those people... As he says, Hudo or Bedno... You don't like it, but they already bring us benefits as bees. And, you know, take this here... Yeah, maybe... I deeply respect the opinion of the President, perhaps this transitional period was indeed a little bit of a spirit. Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes! - that they must not be used in these two-litre beer bottles. But we don't have to fight the form, fight against the content. And that's why I think we should support... However, entrepreneurs have invested, and this is not, Mr Sergeant, as simple as you think. Of course, bottles can already be produced, but the story is about packing, about packing lines. And it's not there it--turn two screws and put there a lithuanian bottle... You know, in the Ministry of Agriculture and also in the Commission, opinions were very shared. However, I call for support to be given to the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. There must be some reasonable time frame. Because, you know, that's the deadline if we support it here... It's not real, it won't work. It won't work until... There is a need for a transitional period of at least one year after this Brussels or European Commission harmonisation comes.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U93	Mr Klazka, the time for your debate has come to an end.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U94	Thank you for listening to me. I invite you to support the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U95	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur express the opinion of the panel?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U96	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I draw Members' attention once again to one thing: that indeed this date will obviously have to be harmonised within the European Commission. And I personally do not know exactly what will happen if this harmonisation is negative. That is first. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “The Commission has supported it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U97	The Commission's views...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U98	Secondly. For the Commission... those commissions that really deal with waste management issues... It is a great surprise to me that Mr Kiršteina has not noticed that in very many municipalities in Latvia, at least 70 municipalities, separate collection of waste, so sorting, is carried out very well. Unfortunately, Mr Kirštein must be living in Riga, where this issue is not all right.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U99	Proposal No 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U100	On behalf of the Commission, I have to call for support. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “What do you say!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U101	Members support... ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Are Members asking for a vote? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 1. - The motion tabled by Member Money! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 8, for - 17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U102	The proposal cannot therefore be put to the vote because it is practically identical to that already approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U103	Therefore, proposal 2, since it is identical, cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U104	3. - the proposal of the responsible commission, which provides that production will still be available until 31 March 2018. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U106	Consequently, Proposals 4 and 5 cannot be put to the vote. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U107	Consequently, Proposals 4 and 5 cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U108	I call for the law to be confirmed after the rereading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for adoption of the law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 91, for - no, for - 1. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law on the second reading of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U110	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! I think this draft law will be a little calmer. It is about a partnership agreement between the European Union and New Zealand. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined this at second, final, final reading and supported it. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U111	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of supporting the second final reading of the draft law on the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law on the second reading of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U112	We work with document 3542. The Foreign Commission has examined this draft law on the European Union Cooperation Agreement with the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Foreign Commission has supported it at second, final reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U113	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of supporting the second final reading of the draft law on the Cooperation Agreement on Partnership and Development between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U115	On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U116	Hello, dear colleagues! See amendments to the Criminal Law. Draft law number 794/Lp12. The Legal Commission assessed the proposals received and took the relevant decisions. Proposal No 1 – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U118	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U120	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This was partly supported and included in the proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U121	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U122	4. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U124	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U126	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U128	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U130	And 8. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U131	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U132	I therefore call for this draft law to be supported at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U133	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U134	This draft law is related to a previously adopted law and a total of four proposals have been submitted to the third reading of the draft law. After evaluation 1. - The Legal Bureau's proposal, the Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U136	2. is a proposal from the Legal Office. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U138	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U140	And the 4th is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, and it was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U142	I call on my colleagues to support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U143	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Provision of Free Services”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U144	Good morning, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Provision of Free Services” at third reading. Obviously, the draft law is sufficiently qualitative, because there was absolutely no proposal in the Commission. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U145	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Provision of Free Services" in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U146	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to say that there is no proposal. I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U147	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. Honourable Members! Members Smilten, Brigmanis, Agešins, Gaidis Berzins and Bondar are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Are Members opposed to continuing the parliamentary session without interruption? There is no objection. The sitting of the Saeima shall be held without interruption. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U148	Colleagues! We work with Law No 799/Lp12. The commission responsible has received, and has developed itself, proposals for the third reading, with a total of 11 proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U150	Proposal 2 is also a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U152	3. - Immant Debtor's proposal. Partly supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U153	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U154	Dear colleagues, I will refer to proposals 3, 4, 5 and 6. Since there has been a growing public interest around these draft laws, as well as the media, I think that, as the Secretary of the Commission, I need to tell you a little bit about what is happening here and what has happened. In the spring of this year, following the examination of this draft law, the second-reading commission, together with other proposals, received proposals from the Member Imants Debtor, which specify very specifically certain procedural rules relating to the winding-up and insolvency proceedings of credit institutions, in particular the procedure for approving and regularising the claims of creditors of those credit institutions. In itself, these proposals did not lead to a very large debate and interest; only the very scrupulous definitions led to some slight suspicion that they were suitable for a very, very specific, specific situation. I and my colleagues supported these proposals (with little clarification) because we did not have any information on the issues... on liquidation and insolvency proceedings in the Latvian banking system. However, it turned out that some of our colleagues... some of our colleagues have a great deal of this information. When I realized that all these external innocent proposals were written on behalf of a certain bank – “Trast Commercial Bank” – in order to influence the liquidation and insolvency proceedings of the liquidator and his group... in favour of which there are already a number of criminal proceedings in this bank, I have decided that this is an unprecedented case of my politician's experience and I will certainly not take part in such a scale - I will not vote on these proposals. I do not care - unlike the applicants for these amendments and the active promoters in this Chamber too - who will continue to administer this bank. It must be decided solely by the court and not by the Members of the Saeima in this Chamber. I appeal to my colleagues, really honourable colleagues in the National Union. Just a year ago, the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnačs, publicly stated that the association's links with the semi-criminal insolvency administrator sector had been broken and promised that this sector would be organised. Looking at these proposals, dear colleagues, we see that nothing is absolutely nothing! - have not changed: these people still enjoy unlimited influence, thus completely discrediting them to us Latvians, the essential values of which we stand for. In order to prevent further attempts to influence judicial power in this way, I call not to support these proposals - 4, 5 and 6. - but to decide on them in a separate draft law, once again to return to these proposals to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, and to decide that these amendments, which perhaps do not contradict in themselves... Let's say, with common sense and with what is necessary in this law... decide that they are not attributable to pending proceedings concerning the winding-up of one or the other bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U155	Member's name is Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U156	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you why I did not support the Commissioner's proposal, which was then drafted as a commission's proposal, at the meeting of the Commission. I believe that at the time when the insolvency proceedings of one credit institution, namely Trasta commercial bank, take place; at the time when the application of the Financial and Capital Market Commission for the removal of Ilma Kruma from the duties of the administrator of the public limited liability company Trasta commercial bank to be wound up is to be considered in the court of Vidzeme; at the time when the administration of the public limited liability company Trasta commercial bank to be wound up has stated that the administrator of the public limited liability company Trasta commercial bank has been recognised as the suspect persons within the framework of the criminal proceedings initiated by the administration of economic crimes; at the time when the Financial and Capital Market Commission has initiated the procedure for the appointment of another administrator laid down in regulatory enactments, the laws governing this procedure and the introduction of a provision which may affect the particular insolvency proceedings are not, in my view, responsible. This can be considered as political interference in the particular insolvency proceedings. Colleagues! I do not personally know these administrators, and I do not have any interest in this process. I think that many of you, too, have no interest in this process. Colleagues! Even if the proposed proposal does not in itself give rise to suspicion that... Yeah... Even if KNAB believes that it only complements existing legislation... The time that this proposal has been tabled prevents me from supporting it. I will therefore vote 'no' and call on all my fellow Members to vote in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U157	The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U158	Colleagues! You may, of course, wish to present yourself, but Mr. Dalder, you are working with me on the Commission. You are also receiving letters and those applications, on the Commission we appreciate. And my proposals came from the letters that had been tabled, which dealt with this problem. If you have not come to know them, why do you blame others for getting to know them? As the person responsible for this draft law, also responding and evaluating in the commission that we need to incorporate the newer norms that are in the insolvency law... the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which has been discussed for a long time in several working groups... And this latest law... The changes to the insolvency law were incorporated. However, in the Law on Credit Institutions, which specifically regulates insolvency proceedings directly with credit institutions, these norms were recorded in two small articles. And it is precisely in order to harmonise these laws, because in both cases these requirements on conflict of interest and on reputation must be identical or perhaps even more reinforcing, rather than as uncertain as it was, that a working group meeting took place at which these rules were proposed and harmonised. More! We introduced additional requirements, and one was, in particular, that a person cannot be appointed as an administrator if he is a suspect, accused or accused in criminal proceedings for an intentional criminal offence. This contrasts with the insolvency law, which does not impose any obligation solely on the administrator to act in the specific proceedings. So we incorporated this reinforcement to prevent conflicts of interest. Even when, after reading the second reading, which, as you remember, Mr. Dalder, was brought literally to the committee meeting, we asked the State Agency “Insolvency Administration” and the Latvian Association of Certified Administrators of insolvency proceedings, as well as the Ministry of Justice, for an assessment of whether these norms are sufficient or if they are in line with the Insolvency Law, or whether any additions are needed. We received these opinions, which can be clearly seen from the introduction that the Association of Certified Administrators of insolvency proceedings of Latvia indicates that the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Law “On the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” provides: “The State official may not issue administrative acts, perform supervisory, control, investigation or punishment functions, conclude contracts or perform other activities in relation to his business partners also for two years after the termination of contractual relations.” This means that this provision is valid and applies to a public official. What's the difference? The difference is as follows: the rule states that an official of that State who is an administrator cannot take a decision on a person to whom he has been associated for the last two years. Its nuance in insolvency proceedings is that an official may not delegate his duties to another. If it has a conflict of interest with a creditor, it is the only one that can make a decision. But if it has a conflict of interest, it cannot make a decision according to law. Consequently, this person is not in a position to perform his duties in full. In turn, in order to understand whether this provision of the law is correctly interpreted, I, of course, wrote a letter to the institution responsible for the prevention of conflict of interest – the Bureau of Prevention of Corruption and Combating Corruption – and received a clear answer. For the discussion that we had in the Commission also raised the question: is the fact of power already a conflict of interest or not? And there we had different opinions, not even opinions, but discussions about whether there might be a human authorisation. Yes, in theory, there is this possibility, so we decided in the Commission: we understand that the person has accepted the mandate, has known about it, and so it is the relationship between the mandate contract. And that is why, according to this KNAB opinion, we took the draft law back in order to avoid misunderstandings. Also according to the assessment of the Ministry of Justice, this norm is a norm that helps to prevent conflict of interest. In order to prevent a conflict of interest, we clarified the rule. I hope that colleagues from the Unity, who have always been a clear order of things, will also support this provision in order to prevent conflicts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U159	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U160	Hello, brothers and sisters! I call for a vote against proposals 3, 4, 5 and 6. Why? Because there is already a legal basis for each Member. And I have a request not to engage in lobbying fighting for how to highlight millions of insolvent credit institutions. I also call on Members: we are not cheap! Be aware that if we are in favour of lobbying, our appreciation for the year should be at least one million in this pocket. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis intersacres.) I... request not to interfere. Six million have already been highlighted from the Trasta commercial bank, which is comparable to the teacher wage supplements in the budget, with the necessary money for nurses. If KNAB says that the reduction in the number of candidates contributes to the fight against corruption, I say no, dear friends! I have been very close to corruption. In this way, corruption is directly promoted, dear friends of KNAB! And if there's a real suspicion that there's some Mr. Bokom... Party Unity is somehow interested in something, then, dear KNAB, you can clearly see what to control, so that in this case the current highlighting does not happen. What else do I want to say? There is a lack of money in our country for nurses, pensioners (Interface: “Judges!” ) on very important matters. I call on all of us together to spend this time friendlyly to build an economy to get this money, not to do the lobby games, which will hide something at some point. I call for this draft decision to be rejected and postponed so that it is properly designed and there is no doubt whatsoever that we are involved in the lobby game. Lobby is playing where anyone wants to, so to speak, like a faucet eagle to highlight millions from an insolvent company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U161	The name of the Member Intt Dalder, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U162	Dear colleagues, Let me explain the situation. As I have already said, these proposals, which Mr Debtor has spoken about, are indeed justified, and we have really spoken about them, and there is no claim for us to support it in the law. But they change very specific bank insolvency proceedings directly in the middle of the proceedings. And that is the aim of these proposals. Believe me, in a month's time, that no one would like to submit these proposals, because there would be no interest. That is what I am against, and I call on my fellow Members to be against it. There is no problem if there is a conflict of interests, the court can decide on this right now. We clarify - two years, yes, there is a mandate agreement, all right, we can talk about all this. But the fact that we are trying to sort things out in the middle of the process, when we see that the police are already standing and right now, will immediately take these people hard and they will have to answer the law... But we're quick to try to save something else... Well, that's what... I call on you not to participate in such games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U163	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U164	Good morning, colleagues! Many of you certainly know how much I do not really like insolvency administrators, the system currently in place and certain elements of it. It does not even matter to me whether they are travelling with Benly or offshore Aston Martin, which political parties are under the auspices of. In my case, these feelings are very mutual: I, too, do not really like the insolvency administrators. It is for these reasons that I will always vote in favour of any legislative amendment that will allow for more control over their activities, as well as limiting possibilities for improvisation in insolvency proceedings. Yesterday, representatives of the FCMC and of the KNAB were invited to the ZZS Group so that we could still take this decisive decision. The only argument of the FCTC why these amendments are not necessary is that this will limit the number of administrators that will be able to apply for specific processes. Given that we currently have around 300 administrators in the country and no massive epidemic in their queues can be predicted, then I think they will not be lacking. The representatives of KNAB, on the other hand, said that these amendments are very necessary, necessary and will allow for stronger control of all these processes. The limitations imposed on insolvency administrators by the conflict of interest law have already been mentioned here. So I won't repeat it. I was in a parliamentary investigation commission dealing with the case of the stock company “Latvijas Krājbanka”, so I saw how this bank was administered. And what I saw there also allows me to ask a rhetorical question: if there are ten creditors in a bank, but only a few will have sufficient funds, then which of these creditors will the insolvency administrator prefer? ( Independence: “Yours! ” ( ) Those with whom he has ever had some sort of hell, honest, or unfair, or those he does not know? I think the answer is obvious. Believe me, it was quite difficult for me to decide on this, but I will obviously support these amendments to the law, because I have no guarantee that when I go ahead with some term, two groups will not fight in one particular bank, and then these amendments will come back to the Saeima when the bribe is split. I will therefore support them today.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U165	The name of the Member Immant Debtor, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U166	Colleagues! I will remind you that we have been working on this draft law since January. In February, we started aligning these provisions with the insolvency law. This provision, as I said, is harmonised with the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials. And it's strange to listen to the arguments that the norm is already correct and otherwise supported, but not at the right time. Because it could interfere with a person. Listen, colleagues, can we really make laws in this way? There's five... ( Intercretion: “Look! ” ) Five new candidates have been nominated, among other things, by the National Agency for Insolvency Administration. In the past, the Guild has been put forward, so we could think that there are some internal agreements there and that inappropriate candidates are being put forward, but the "Solvency Administration" has for some time been, I hope we accept the most worthy candidates. Then, let them also accept those worthy of managing this insolvency process from among them. Colleagues, once again, it is not about it: if someone is in this, already existing, process what offences have been committed and he has to be stopped, then he must be stopped! The question is who will carry out these duties in the future. And do we believe that such a person may have a conflict of interest or not? That is the answer to which we must respond today by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U167	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U168	Please combine both times!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U169	Do Members have reservations if Member Āboltiņa combines both speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U170	Dear colleagues, I may not take it for such a long time. The elections have come to an end, and we can express our views freely once again from this troupe. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “We have always told him!” And I guess this time... This time it is not about shirts, but about the conscience. The desire to harmonise legislation is very welcome, and this must be done on an ongoing basis, which is our duty. And the way in which we can make the process clearer, cleaner and more understandable will benefit the process. Of course, you can work with the bill from January and you can work with it from last year (there are also earlier draft laws), but it is always the strange story of those “postmen” for the third reading. I have to say: all due respect! ‘ People’s skills are becoming more and more talented for us. ‘ Pastor’ Bress could not even explain what this is mutatis mutandis. ‘ Pastor” Pietkevičs of “Futures” was already well-armed with legal information, but “pastor” Imants – just has developed, staged and called the speech, and speaks... That's absolutely right! It's perfectly perfect... These draft laws have been drawn up on Antonia Street and are required by this law. But what we're talking about all the time is: do you need it now? But Mr. Postman, you don't trust! You do not trust that canton because new versions have already been prepared. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “How do you know what is happening in that cantory?” ) I will tell you a vision of what will happen next. Dreams sometimes appear in the whole month. I had a dream that, it turns out, on June 16, it was called... The administrator, who we know is suspected of using another method on June 16... On June 19, there's a court that has been left before... so I won't bother you with nuance... What is the agenda then announced? ‘ Approval of the administrator's activity report, determination of administrator's remuneration. Other issues related to the progress of insolvency proceedings. Election of the Committee of Creditors. Election of representatives of the meeting of creditors.’ The main question is "Determining the administrator's remuneration". So on June 16 this meeting... Let's decide, let's pay it all. On June 19, that court will no longer have any meaning. Of course, you're working very well here and you're working... Because, of course, it is important to show your trust and loyalty to what is. And legal arguments have been prepared perfectly! But there's more... Of course it's interesting. Last week, when I called on us to look at and not to be ashamed of the fact that each of us here has our own conscience, the awareness that we have given public confidence... Each of us has confidence in what we can or cannot talk about. But, unfortunately, in this process, it is clear who orders music. And interesting! I had to wait six days as a miracle! This usually happens faster. But apparently this time the expenses related to elections, the payment of Library No. 1 and the rest of the... In other words, its cash flow has been too high at one time! It's enough that the article about me came up only six days later. Tomorrow will definitely be next: now the cash flows can be regulated again! That's the story. If someone else had doubts about who is ordering music, read “Stop, ” find out who “Stop” belongs to. A.Kamiņš: “Do not advertise their wastebin!” ) and will be clear! There is absolutely clear evidence. And more. I will finish, however, with the same thing last time. A month ago, the Speaker of the Saeima said in his traditional address on May 4: “Latvians have proved their ability to manage their historical destiny through decades. All this is because we love our country, we love Latvia.” Yes, we love Latvia! We can sing about the red-white flag, teach each other nationalism, patriotism. But I will repeat what I have said: we see what is happening in Ukraine. Yes, Russia is invading Ukraine and wants to occupy it. But why is Ukraine so difficult? Because those in power sold their people for cheap money. What we are doing right now is exactly the same. Let us love our country and show how we truly love it!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U171	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U172	Hello! As a man who once was close to corruption, I did so. E.Smilten: “How close have you been to corruption?” ), I would like to say to those people who support this lobby game: in this way, there is a simple estimate - six million, divided into a hundred heads, is 60 thousand. ( Milestones.) Remember, dear friends who want to play in these lobby games: you are entitled to at least 30,000 pockets for pressing this button.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U173	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U174	Colleagues! Hello! Different names, different surnames, different suspicions have spoken of this piece of legislation. I call on you to think about one other word - it's Ritum Ivanov. There's a special autotechnic that he's using. You usually walk through this hall when you go to the Red Hall. There's a portrait there. And when you walk past that portrait, most often you see black, white, orange vertical lines. That salt is there that Ritum Ivanov, who is painting in this author's technique, invites the viewers to step back five steps until that mirror, and then you will see not the line, but John Chakste. I mean, I have a picture of this picture. Trying to get some detail right now. But what is the overall picture? There are conflicts of interest, there is no wording and so on, but the overall picture is absolutely clear. Yesterday we sat on Latvian television with the Prime Minister and others, and the audience watched us think about where to take the money for health. The surgery is cancelled, there is no doctor. It is also known that in a few years' time, European funds for roads will end. We will not have 150 million European funds. Where to take this money? Pensioners, especially those receiving small pensions, hope that they will have the moment when there may also be an annex. But where does that money come from? It's very simple! Everyone is talking about this magical formula, namely gross domestic product. What does it consist of? The first is consumption, which the government is currently trying to stimulate by taking these measures - both tax reform and others. The third is government spending. If we have European funds, the balance of GDP, exports and imports will grow. That's what we're working on. Exporting companies are really working well and contributing to the economy. This gives us hope that this growth will be, and there will be money to pay for the basic needs of our country. But there's a section in the gross domestic product that's limping and it's investment. Why "blibo"? Practically all ambassadors working in Latvia when talking to them point out that the problem is not all in taxes - that taxes would be too high or that our economy would not be competitive. They are concerned about their own businessmen, because investing money in our country's economy is not about taxes and costs, but about investment security and the justice system. And as the first ambassador to speak to me or to others always asks the question of administration of insolvency. This is that picture, and this story... If we want to make sure that there is investment in our country that creates jobs, develops exports, then justice and the story of insolvency administrators is primary. Consequently, the three proposals that have been tabled are not so many legal instruments, these black and white or orange stripes. It is a question that we can see back five steps in Ivanova's work. It is a question of basic political hygiene here in the Saeima. Consequently, it may be that issues of conflict of interest need to be sorted, but in principle... Just thinking about the principle, how it has happened and why I will not support these proposals (in general, I will support the draft law because there are other important things there), and not supporting my colleagues too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U175	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U176	I finally hear from this troupe the words 'lobbyism', 'lobbyists'. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: Again! ) And... Dear Members, you are all invited to the President of Latvia tomorrow, if I am not mistaken, at 10 a.m. He holds a conference on lobbying. On necessity of lobbying law in Latvia. Just fix it! The President calls on you to talk about this. There's another thing. Mr. Nunozole, are you putting the price here now? 30,000 for pressing the button? Or, let’s say, Solvita says, “We won’t give Latvia so cheap!” Why do you put the price on Latvia? On the proposals. It is so that in Latvia, I think, there are two of the most beloved, most desirable positions - to be the brother of Porzinģis or the insolvency administrator. These are two positions that a person would really like to work for. I’ll tell you one little dream that I saw (Dep. I.Viņķele: “A dream from Sunday to Monday?” ) in the context of this proposal. It is so that you all speak here as tongues and don't want to tell in Latvian, clear Latvian what the fight is about. I slept and saw a dream that if the National Association “Patient” Imants (as you, Solvita, said, and it was good)... these amendments are approved... If the STECF does so, then perhaps tax reform could also take a step forward. Maybe. What I did in that dream I don't know, because at that point I woke up, went to KNAB's website and saw that Lucis, who was Secretary General, had killed four thousand on day 28... in May, four thousand euro for the National Association. The fact that we are finally hearing from this platform - Antonios iela 7; I am delighted, too, that you are finally beginning to talk about it. And now there's two heads. There's the end of Mara Spruck, and there's all the other administrators. There are two types of administrators in Latvia - those who work with Māra Sprūda, and those who do not work. The fact that this situation needs to be put right is demonstrated by the meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit this week. Mr. Berzins, there we did not understand anything, because the answer was about nothing, no one knows anything, and football.lv is happening... The situation is uncoordinated. You don't want to name any names, they didn't want to name the administration, the administrator. Directors and policemen, and the State Audit Office did not want to name any unfair insolvency administrator. We didn't hear anyone. Thanks to the media, we know that there is a Shrum that is not a bush, but a man. Thanks to the media, we know that, but here you are speaking in culuars or tongues. In this case, it is that there is now such talk that possibly Sprūds is sponsoring the National Association. It may be that Rasa, that's the other one, sponsors Unity. And now those fights are taking place. What the fisheries are going to do? I don't know. What will I do? I don't know. You were in that sitting, as you supported... What I was taught when I... became an actor, had--may not change the rules in the middle of the game. You're changing them right now. You do not have to intervene in this situation. Let it be done by the relevant instances, not by the Members of these tribunals and with this lobbying here. Mr President, you are welcome to the conference. The Law of Lobbym in Latvia is abnormally necessary. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis: “But you promised to write!” ) Today’s evidence of this is particularly true. How many times have you talked about beer bottles? It's the lobby that comes from Boki, who's never been on this platform in his life. That is what is happening in that country. The law of Lobbying would sort this country out. So I told you what's happening to these two flanks here, who's here, how and how. Mr. Nanosol, don't put a price on you! Solvita, you, too, don't put a price on yourself. It doesn't fit either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U177	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U178	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, When discussing the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks, we called for important things such as business environment, trust, legal certainty, predictability and other very important aspects. In that case, we called on these very important considerations, trying to defend producers of relatively simple, poor products that are damaging to our public health. In this case, too, the question is about the same: about confidence and about the business environment. We are very often told by the Council of Foreign Investors, large investors, large companies in Latvia that what really undermines the business environment in Latvia is our legal environment. Our very unclear insolvency processes, where insolvency administrators and judges are congregate on one hand, creating so-called collages, which ultimately only make decisions for the benefit of individual persons. This environment and this failure to rely on the fact that justice will be available to the court is something that causes people to doubt about their ability to successfully run their business in Latvia. And if, in the first case - in the case of the sale of cheap liquid in large packaging - it is a low added value product, then in this case - in the case of amendments to the Credit Institutions' law - we see a fine so-called white collar or belly lobby. And now the Saeima has the opportunity to choose once again whether we will be subject to this fine white collar lobby this time, because in the end, Mr. Debtor spoke very beautiful about the principles of harmonisation, which the Saeima is very important, but did not answer the specific question asked by Laimdotas Straujuma: why now and why exactly one existing insolvency proceedings - "Treas commercial bank"... Is that so? We do not have an answer to that. Therefore, my fellow Members, let us give up this fine white collar lobby and let us allow these amendments to wait for the process to come to an end! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U179	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U180	Yeah. The rules of the law will apply equally to all and this proposal has been improved and incorporated into the evaluation6. - the Commission's proposal. So that is partly supported. For the Commission,
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U181	These proposals have been partly supported. Do Members want to vote in favour of these partially supported ones?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U182	This is not supported by the Commission as the provision has been integrated into 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U183	Do Members want to vote in favour of these partially supported ones? So Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - a proposal made by the debtor Member! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 38, for - 33. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U184	4. - The debtor's proposal. Similarly, only administrators are concerned, not liquidators. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U185	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - a proposal made by the debtor Member! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 0 to - 39, refrains - 34. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U186	5. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It has also been partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U187	Members agree with the Commission... ( Internouncing call.) Do you want a vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 0 to - 27, refrain - 45. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U188	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U189	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U190	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U191	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U192	8 / 8 - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U193	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U194	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U196	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U197	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U198	Finally, the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U200	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U201	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 20, for - 1. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U202	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, third reading. We have received two proposals from the Commission. These are both the proposals of the Legal Bureau, and both are legal... the corrective nature. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U204	Two more. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is editorial in nature and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U206	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U207	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U208	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! We look at the third reading, final reading, amendments to the Law on Museums. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U210	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U212	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U213	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U214	4. - a proposal drawn up by the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U216	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U218	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U219	Members agree and support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U220	7. - a proposal drawn up by the Legal Bureau, which was partly supported and incorporated by the Commission. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U221	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U222	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is partly supported and included in 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U223	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U224	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U226	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U228	Also 11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U230	12. - a proposal from Minister of Culture Dace Melbards. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U231	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U232	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U234	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U236	And 15. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U238	I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law on amendments to the Law on Museums at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U239	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Museums". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U240	Hello, honorable Bureau! Dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs reviewed and directs the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Business Groups”. This draft law is designed to provide a framework for the implementation of the codification of sector-specific administrative infringements. It includes a framework on administrative liability in the field of information and consultation for EU-wide companies and EU-wide group of companies. And a competent authority with jurisdiction to impose penalties is established. The said amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation will replace the relevant norms of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. The draft law contains the composition of administrative offences and penalties related to infringements of the requirements of the European Commission Directive. According to the requirements of the Directive, Member States are obliged to provide for sanctions which are effective, dissuasive and proportionate in relation to the seriousness of the infringement. The draft law provides for the addition of the Law on Information and Consultation (if we shorten this Law) with Article 28.1 which includes the composition of the administrative violation as set out in Section 41.3 first paragraph of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code currently in force, which provides for responsibility for the disclosure to third parties of confidential information obtained when operating within the European Workers' Council in the special negotiating group or in the framework of other procedures for informing and consulting employees. The draft law provides for supplementing the law on information and consultation with another article, which also includes the composition of the administrative violation provided for in Section 41.3 second paragraph of Latvian Administrative Violations Code. That is, there is a penalty for not providing information to employees and their representatives. At the same time, the Law on Information and Consultation is supplemented by another article providing for similar infringements and penalties. This is a fine for not covering the costs of setting up or operating a Council of the European Union or a special negotiating group in a commercial company of the European Union or in a group of commercial companies of the European Union. The draft law provides for supplementing the law with several more articles that define this responsibility, by transferring this responsibility from the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations to this law in practice. And this law will enter into force at the same time as the Administrative Violations Procedure Law. The adoption of a draft law does not, in fact, entail any administrative or financial change. The State Labour Inspectorate remains responsible. And, in fact, after the exchange of information and the discussion within the Commission, this draft law was supported at first reading, and we are asking for it to be supported at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U241	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U242	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 25 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U243	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 August this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Streek Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U244	The Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima examined the draft law “Amendments to the Strek Law”, which is a joint package with the draft laws we had previously voted at first reading and will enter into force at the same time as the Administrative Violations Procedure Law, and will lead to their reading at first reading. In order to ensure a system for the codification of sector-specific administrative offences, a new Chapter of the Streek Act, which includes a framework on administrative liability in the area of strike law, has been developed and a competent authority has been designated for the application of penalties. These amendments will replace the relevant norms of the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations. Currently, Section 19, Part Three, Paragraph 4 of the Strek Law provides for the right of the State Labour Inspectorate to administratively punish guilty persons for violations of laws and regulations. In order to avoid duplication of norms, the right of the State Labour Inspectorate will be established in Section 37 of the Streikis Law. The new Chapter VIII of the Law establishes administrative liability in the field of strike law, as well as penalties for violations similar to those currently in the Special Part of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. Similarly, competence in the application of penalties is regulated. The draft law provides for the addition of Section 34 of the Streiks Law, which includes the composition of the administrative violation specified in Section 41.2(1) of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code currently in force, which provides for responsibility for imposing the work of employees who do not participate in the strike, taking on the employees who are strike, as well as for recruiting employees instead of workers who are strikers, in order to prevent or stop strikes or delay the fulfilment of the demands of strikers. The employer’s responsibility is thus determined in two cases: the employer’s action prevents or stops the strike or prevents the demands of strike workers from being met. Taking into account that Section 4 of the Labour Act contains an employer definition: ‘The employer is a natural or legal person or a legal partnership which employs at least one employee on the basis of an employment contract.’ - in the future responsibility for violations of the Streek Law is provided not only for a natural person, but also for an operational personal company. Next, Dep. A.Kamiņš: “We don’t need it anymore!” ) on Articles 35, 36 and 37. ( Insight: “We understood! ” ) They are designed in such a way that they are transferred from the Latvian Administrative Violations Code to this law. In this case, no administrative changes and financial changes are foreseen, and the State Labour Inspectorate will be responsible for compliance with the norms of this Law. Please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U245	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Streek Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U246	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall also be 25 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U247	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 August this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U248	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety” (No 891/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law for second reading. No proposals were received. Request to the Saeima to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U249	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U250	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U251	13 June this year? Proposals are due by 13 June this year. On the agenda - first reading of the draft law on the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U252	Hello, again! We work with document 3331. This bill is the first bilateral agreement between the European Union and Cuba. The Agreement is based on new principles of cooperation with a view to promoting closer cooperation and dialogue within a broad range of policy areas, including trade facilitation and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The new cooperation agreement provides for cooperation in areas of global importance such as security, terrorism, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, combating the production and spread of drugs, combating corruption and organised crime. The agreement is based on three pillars: political dialogue, cooperation and sectoral policy dialogue, as well as trade and trade cooperation. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law at first reading and supported it. I call on you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U253	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the First Reading Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U254	Deadline for submission of proposals - 16 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U255	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 June this year. On the agenda – draft law “On accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Chief of Transformation of the United States on the Strategic Relations of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U256	Thank you. We work with document 3450. In brief. This law is about the accession of the Netherlands to the activities of the NATO Strategic Communication Centre here in Riga. The Netherlands and all the countries mentioned in the title of the bill are already participating countries, and this is a memorandum of understanding between these countries, including Latvia and the Netherlands, which has made an offer to participate with the aim of becoming a sponsoring country. At the same time, it is ready to send one expert to the Stratcom Centre who has already started work. And it should be noted here that the commitments of the other Member States, including financial ones, to the Netherlands accession centre are not affected in any way. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law at first reading and supported it. I call on my colleagues to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U257	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On the accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and functioning of the Centre of Excellence for Strategic Communications of the Republic of Latvia and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Supreme Command Transforming Forces on the Functional Relations of the Centre of Excellence of the Republic of North Atlantic Agreement” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U258	June 16th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U259	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U260	Colleagues! The Commission has examined amendments to the Law on State Revenue Service. I would remind you that these amendments to the law have been tabled with a view to merging the Financial Police and the Customs Police and to positioning the internal security service. We have received 11 proposals for the second reading. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U261	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U262	Dear colleagues, I think you have not yet forgotten that last autumn we had a draft (with the budget) that proposed... which was intended to combine two police - the Tax Police and Customs Police - to allocate the position and beautiful uniforms of the SRS manager. We talked about it and rejected that draft. Now, in six months' time, there's a question on the agenda. The issue is the same and, unfortunately, the offer is the same. And the problems we are talking about are the same. We certainly support the merger of the Customs police and the Tax police. That's a good thing, it has to be done! But I really cannot understand why solutions that cannot be supported are added to a good thing. And you don't have to be a man with legal education, you don't need to know something special to realize that the proposal is wrong. What is it? This is about the institution that will carry out the investigation, will carry out operational actions to detect violations in the State Revenue Service. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Should such violations be investigated? There's no doubt! But the question is, where should such an institution be created? Unfortunately, the proposal provides that the new body that will carry out this check, this internal control, will be subject to the head of the SRS. And, colleagues, let's think logically! There's an institution that controls, that carries out... that can basically carry out the investigative activities provided for in criminal proceedings. And who will be responsible to the chief? He will report to the SRS manager. This is not a story of the director who is currently working. This is not a story of a person who will work for the future. The question is the problem. How can control be transferred to an institution that is actually controllable. Is that okay? Is this effective? Is this acceptable? If I remember correctly, I heard at the commission meeting that it would not interfere. I'm sorry! Perhaps you also noticed - this week there was information about another country - about the United States - which the Head of the Federal Investigation Office announced in an open text that the President of Latvia Trump requested loyalty if he wanted to continue working as Head of the Office. I apologise, what will a person in Latvia do in such a situation, who will direct the internal security administration, where the head of the institution may demand loyalty? Will he be able to organise an effective investigation if there are people who are sympathetic to the SRS manager? I don't think so! I think that the risks are very high. And we're talking about other solutions, they're a number. We have KNAB. Yes, it is weakened, but it can be strengthened and can pass on to it the function of carrying out control. We have another institution. A working internal security office of the Ministry of the Interior has been set up. And what's interesting here is this office, which is not under the authority of the Minister, but under the supervision of the Minister, controls not only the employees of the Ministry of the Interior, but also the employees of prison administration, the local government police. That's what you can do! After all, if you like other solutions, you can hand it over to the Ministry - the Ministry of Finance - under the supervision of such an institution. No, no! We are building an institution which, on the one hand, will have the right to control the activities of the manager, but on the other, he will also have to account for it. Well, there's a big contradiction here. By the way, interestingly, when it comes to combining two police forces, one of the arguments was that we focus their strength, we can work effectively. I did not understand why we cannot entrust the Office of Internal Security of the Ministry of the Interior with this function? Because we're not talking about good governance here... Not just about that! This is about crimes. I don't know if colleagues understand or don't. The law states that such an office will carry out operational activities. Do you think that the office will react quickly? No, no! That office... it will have the right to conduct hearings, perform other operational activities... I do not think this is acceptable. And I call for proposals 1 and 3 not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U263	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U264	Yes! In the Commission this... we have heard these objections from Mr Judine. We also heard the Director General of the State Revenue Service, Mrs Cīrule, who presented this option as the most suitable and suitable option for her job. I call for this proposal to be supported. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U265	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozolas! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 18, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U266	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U268	3. - the proposal by the commission responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U269	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Proposal submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... Proposal No 3! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 17, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U270	4. - the proposal by the commission responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U272	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U274	Six more. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U276	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U278	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission also received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U280	9. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U281	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U282	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the commission responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U284	11. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U286	We have examined all the proposals at second reading. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U287	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U288	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 13 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U289	Thank you. Proposals are due by 13 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Mediation Law”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U290	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendment to the Mediation Law”. The draft law establishes that two judges of different court instances are included in the composition of the Committee for Certification and Certification of Mediators, not as currently indicated, judges of specific court instances. The draft law therefore gives judges the right to choose their representatives. The draft law has been agreed with the Ministry of Justice, with judges, judges of regional courts and judges of the Supreme Court, and also with representatives of the field of mediation, in particular - with the Council of Certified Mediators. The draft law has been examined by the Commission for Judicial Policy and supported, and the Legal Commission is leading this draft law as its own, so in the Commission this draft law has been supported. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U291	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Mediation Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U292	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U293	Thank you. Proposals are due by 13 June this year. On the agenda - Draft law on amendments to the parliamentary roll of order, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U294	Dear colleagues, On 23 February 2015, the Legal Commission established a working group to assess the political order roll of the Saeima. For, as you all know, every moment, the opposition quite rightly points to the fact that the position in this Parliament, as well as the previous one, is using a majority of the coalition's votes and ignores the interests of the opposition, including by answering Members' questions. Also, a number of technical issues have been asked to be addressed. Consequently, the Legal Commission decided that it was necessary to review one of the Rules of Procedure more carefully. I will try to tell you briefly, because these amendments can be divided into rather technical amendments and amendments that will significantly change something. Perhaps this is only the first reading, so one of the largest groups is the so-called technical amendments, which means that, let us accept, the terminology is clarified in relation to the order roll of the Cabinet of Ministers, which also specifies the officials mentioned in the parliamentary roll of order. One of the amendments also concerns the change of time limits. The deadlines are changed when an application is made to renew a Member's mandate and the deadline is extended from seven days to ten, because, as you know, such cases can be twofold, both in a situation where ministers return to the Saeima when they lose their office, and in a situation where one of the Members, or Members, finally looking after a baby, returns to the Saeima and takes back their Member's mandate. For this time limit to be more convenient, such amendments are being made... Also one of these technical amendments... You have noticed that we have two different situations in which Members' leave is granted. One Bureau reports that one Member has requested leave, on other occasions we are voting, so it is not very clear why this is the case once and for the second time. The working group decided to propose that in all cases the solution be the same and that, of course, an application be submitted to the Bureau on both occasions. The Bureau shall decide and shall simply inform us of this. The amendment concerning Members who have been prosecuted or accused is also quite important. No, it does not in any way refer to whether or not we give permission. These issues are set out in the Constitution. In a very long discussion within the Legal Commission, including the Working Party, to summarise the practices of other countries, we are, in fact, the only parliament in which we saw such a practice that, once a Member has been accused, we have allowed him to engage in proceedings against him, he has been denied access to Parliament's work. And there is a miracle for society as to how he receives remuneration without being part of his work? To a certain extent, we run counter to the fact that 100 Members who are to decide and elected in equal, proportional elections do not work in principle. There is therefore also a new procedure here for the Member to continue to work on the commissions if he is accused of such an indictment. Of course, if he is sentenced and sentenced, he is denied participation in parliamentary work and he also loses his mandate. There is also a whole series of technical amendments, as I said,... The parliamentary order roll is a document that originated during the interwar period, developed together with the Constitution, a whole series of these norms are simply taken over technically. For example, the Speaker of the Saeima should start every sitting by presenting the agenda to us in accordance with the procedures in force. As you know, this does not happen, because we have the opportunity to follow it electronically, but that is the norm. Likewise, the fact that extraordinary sittings are called or announced is still in force in the Saeima's roll of order is that it is notified to the Latvian Radio... No, national radio. It uses the wording ‘national radio’. We have also simply tried to find again what form it is so that every Member is really informed that a sitting is being convened. In addition to text messages and e-mails, it is therefore envisaged that groups' advisers are still informed, who can be further involved so that Members can carry out their duties, but in the parliamentary order, as I said, there is now a norm that states that this is done by radio. Just as one of the rules on which the debate was held, as you know, is on open, secret votes, on public votes with ballot marks. One recent example was the election of the National Ombudsman. We wanted the National Ombudsman openly, but with signs, even though there was one candidate. That is why we also tried to prevent such, by nature, a rather controversial rule compared to the other rules, and the National Ombudsman will continue to be elected if there are such candidatures, not by ballot papers, but simply by expressing his opinion with an electronic voting system. Also, the very large amendments that I would like to mention concern the adoption of the budget, the adoption of the famous budget. As you know, we are adopting a budget law and we are adopting a medium-term budget, and the proposals are often duplicated in this bill, which means that there are 600, 800 proposals, both of which have already been discussed once. And, of course, it's also to some extent... Well, you can definitely think about... But in any case, we tried to find a way to vote on these duplicated proposals once. That is exactly what the Group on the Heart of Latvia (that is, their proposal) has repeatedly called for a debate on the arrangements in which we debate the budget. We are debating the whole package on the budget at first reading. And so, if we go back, let us accept this year's budget, one Member applies to talk about loyalty amendments, one Member to apply for an amendment to VAT, and the third one to loyalty again. And the possibility of following this debate in substance, in substance, and who (conditionally) from the position to respond to opposition is missing. Therefore, each draft budget package will be the subject of a separate debate. Just changing the timing of the debate so that it does not turn into infinite: it is not limited to 15 minutes at first reading... In addition, there will be an impression on each of the draft laws, on what these arguments are both for and against. The greatest contradictions... The greatest contradictions within the Legal Commission led to a discussion on the question and answer... the reply of ministers to Members. It is, by its very nature, one of the issues which was the basis for us to start talking about these amendments. As you know, the current order is that the Speaker of the Saeima reads these answers, says that at 17.00 there will be or will not be ministers, or they can or cannot come. And indeed, the Speaker of the Saeima has repeatedly pointed out to ministers that in a parliamentary state it is the duty to come and answer Members' questions, but often it has resulted in the opposition even last year taking the instrument... to ministers who did not come, the Members turned these questions into requests to at least get ministers here. This does not bring glory to a parliamentary state. We are appointing ministers. Ministers have a duty to account. If this can happen to the public here, from this troupe, and the public have the opportunity to follow it, then I think that the ministers, the parliament and the public will benefit from these ministerial responses. Thus it was proposed that ministers not at 17.00 on Thursday, but, as it has already been in the interwar period, come to account... comes to answer the questions put by Members during our sitting, after the first section, when the draft laws are passed. So in predictable time. Of course, the coalition Members' reservations that it could be used as a tool to block even more in some way, so that important issues such as amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions or amendments on beer two-litres are not dealt with... There is a mechanism which allows this to be decided both by changing the agenda and by postponing and shortening this debate. But the very fact that we would all see the ministers - including the coalition - who would see the response of their ministers to the questions of the opposition - would, in my opinion, be in favour of both the ministers and the coalition Members who could assess whether the people they delegated to the responsible work of the minister are really competent enough and able to manage their industry and offer solutions. As I said, this is a very controversial proposal. In any case, I know that the National Association will not even vote in favour of this draft law, although all the other amendments are good, but this is the only one that has been contentious. I would like to remind you that this is a question of first reading at the moment. This will not be adopted as a matter of urgency. The second reading will be in the autumn. I hope that we can also adopt it in three readings before the adoption of the budget. And, of course, there is an opportunity to submit it to both the second and third readings under the parliamentary order. But I hope that, also with regard to matters, with the adoption of these amendments to the parliamentary roll of order, we will be able to demonstrate that we are indeed matured by a democracy that is also capable of respecting the opposition's right to express its opinion and also asking ministers questions. I would also like to mention from the amendments that the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, whose functions have, of course, been greatly extended and changed following the introduction of my voice initiative, has also been asked to make a number of amendments, including the time limits within which these applications are being examined, in line with its practical experience. This is also respected and these deadlines are proposed in this draft amendment. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications also asked for an opportunity to decide on initiation of cases of ethical violation. In analyzing and discussing, the Legal Commission and the Working Group decided that it would be a very valuable initiative - to give the Commission a further tool as well as a mandate, ethics and application. I probably did not mention all the amendments. As I said, the figures are large. I assume there will be a lot of discussion, because there will also be a sufficiently long deadline for tabling proposals. But on behalf of the Legal Commission, I am asking for these amendments to be supported, as this is the law governing our work. We accept it for ourselves. This regulatory document has the power of law, and it would be very good if we were always to follow it and to know it very well. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U295	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U296	I call for no support. In particular, I would like to talk about the amendments to the parliamentary roll, which allow committee meetings to be recorded only with the parliamentary equipment and accredited media. Solvita Āboltiņa did not mention a rotten word about this. And now I'd like to tell you that there's been a conversation... It has been a conversation to make the public more involved in Parliament's work. On 21 September 2016, the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit unanimously - with 11 votes in favour and 0 votes in favour (no one abstained) - decided to conceptually support my proposal that the meetings of the Commission are broadcast live. It happened in the Red Hall... These sittings are now held in the new house... In the new house of the Saeima, which has been built, five million euros of taxpayers' money has been restored... plus EUR 1.5-1 million for the technical provision of the hardware. So my offer was that these commission meetings could be seen by any Latvian citizen... no matter where he is... See on the Internet, on the Saeima's website, to promote the openness of Parliament's work. On November 2, 2016, that is, after three months, the Secretary General of the Saeima... I don't know, fired or gone... Call me what you want... Secretary-General Karina Pētersone replied that the annual expenditure on video transmission, video recording and archiving of one committee's sittings could be EUR 9940. And now, imagine that you are all sitting in your 11, 13 Commissions plus additional sub-committees, and the transmission of one of the Commission's sittings costs EUR 9940. About what? What is the money paid for? For having this broadcast to provide the Internet. Is the transmission of one sitting really cost EUR 10 000 per year? Because very many commissions don't have these so-called Saeima equipment that films... In order to see people live what I say now, these machines, which are currently filming me, cost EUR 47 per hour. The Bureau rejected this proposal because it said: you see, we do not have a budget, because if we put together all the commissions, then the Saeima must pay a further EUR 95 000 so that the public can see what is going on in commission meetings. I am talking about open committee sittings, not closed. A closed sitting shall be held in camera. The public hearing shall be open to the public. To which I draw your attention is that at present the taxpayer vulgar can only obtain an audio record from the Commission. To get this audio record, he must contact the commission chairman, who allows him to, yes, get the audio record. This is an abnormally complicated process. A simple decision by the Saeima is needed to change this, where no euro is even needed to make these audio recordings available now. Just enter the Saeima's website, press and listen. It is on the website of Riga City Council. Those things you don't like so much and I don't like. But it is still available. Now... What I draw attention to. Two months ago, two, if I don't lie, Imants Debtor also said that we should see where taxpayers' money is spent, how much and for what. It was about pay. We all remember this debate, and now, in principle, this debate results in this paragraph, which is not mentioned here. You mentioned everything, but you did not mention a very important thing - the involvement of the public in parliamentary work. And now that it has happened in some way that, yes, I have a camera, yes, I go and film, these rules do not in any way affect whether I filmed in the Saeima, in this hall or not. That doesn't affect it. It should be said here that perhaps people coming from the edge listen to open sittings, cannot film. But Members who have to account for their constituents and show them their work must be allowed to film. That would be one small version. So I would like to do so that we can make audio recordings of parliamentary committees publicly available, as is the case with parliamentary sittings. It is a simple decision of the Saeima and no budget will be required. As long as public information is not provided, then it comes as in the cartoon where Āboltiņa sits in the black cave and controls what is happening in the Saeima. And now think, everyone else. You will vote, let us accept, there will be a third reading. Let's dream! There's going to be the third reading, there's this secret crust here. What's going on in the Saeima? We don't know. Only so many media get involved... All the commissions don't come, you know it very well. I think you remember when there was a medium at the Sports Sub-Commission last time? Maybe it's getting older. You don't know that. The media simply take what they need, depending on what the public demand is. They do not show all the meetings, and the media are accredited journalists in this case. What I draw attention to is that Āboltiņa has set up this working group and does not know how the annotation... You're a lawyer, a high-ranking lawyer, and people even speak on Antonio Street. You have not even explained why such an amendment is necessary. You should give this proposal a justification, then we can even discuss what you have written there. Because when you write why society cannot see the decisions being made in the Saeima commissions, you can also give you some sort of resistance about it. But the fact that the commissions and commission heads I've been talking to have no problem with filming them. I think that some people elected in the Saeima may simply have a disease (Returning to the Bureau.) - They're afraid they're being filmed. They do not like it, they may indeed have a disease. I think you can hear it. ( Internoint.) Depp. G.Daudze: “The Bureau is part of the drug. Don’t talk to the grass!” ) The Bureau is part of the medicinal product. Is Mr. Many part of the drug? I don't know. But the fact that people in this parliament may have abnormal fear of the camera shows that they are not in the right place. Because this is not a private company or some kind of commercial company, or, I don't know, a stock company. This is the highest decision-making power in Latvia, and people have elected you, they want to see you work. And it doesn't matter if you take the camera away from your neighbor or someone else. However, Members are currently trying to show what they are doing. They have live broadcasts, they're putting Facebook live. Both Smilten and Richard Cole do this, and that's normal! It's normal for you to be shown! You don't have to be ashamed of that. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Who has, who does not!” ) You are Members, exactly, Mr. Zarins! As Mr. Zarins added, who has to be ashamed, who doesn't have to be ashamed. And these amendments to the parliamentary roll of order draw attention to this: why are you not working on really important things? Why do you spend time taking away public access to the work of the Saeima? You have nothing to do? Excuse me! You have to work with how to develop entrepreneurship in Latvia, how to promote healthcare, how to... We are working on national issues, but no, you have to take the neighbor's camera off the agenda. Where are we going? Where have we reached a year, a year and a half before the elections? You are preparing a window so that you can't show in bad light. ( Milestones.) I call for this draft law to be rejected for the third paragraph of Article 163, and I myself have submitted amendments to it. I will make further corrections, because the way in which this secret shell is put to all the Saeima and to each of you, Members, including those of the opposition, has been cosistically laid in one of the red hats that sits in front of me... that must not happen. The company has the right to know what its employees are doing and you are its employees. You're not a lobbyist. That's why I'm asking you to write an annotation. Mrs. Applet, start working, this is the first reading. And I hope the project will not go further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U297	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U298	Dear Members, Honourable Members! It is good that the Round of Order is opened, the historical document, which is still alive, is evolving. Every time we try to find and look for new meanings, new meanings. And if we don't find it there, we create the same new additions and amendments. That is the right way to go. It is also good that, for example, it has appeared as far as I understood what has not been mentioned so far - a website on the Internet. This is mentioned four times in the new project. However, the website is referred to as a means of informing Members, but for a long time, in my view, it has been a parliamentary edition, as our internet newspaper. And in a natural way, this is already a political edition. In my view, it is very important that information and photographic representation on the portal are balanced, but I think sometimes - not only rarely, but often! - however, the functioning of government coalition factions and opposition factions on the website has been unbalanced. I think that it is the mechanism that should be set out in the Rules of Procedure, the system, as I would say, of certain responsibility for editorial policies on the Saeima's website. Naturally, such a policy would be the responsibility of our Bureau, so all this burden lies on our President's shoulders. I don't think that's right, it's a substance for reflection, but the fact that the website's definitely turned into an independent body is obvious. I think that until now, however, this has been reflected especially in the performance story of our commissions and in the photographic representation of the activities on the website. The balance must be very accurately weighed. Let us remember that those who are now in a coalition sometimes also get into opposition, and vice versa - members of the opposition become members of the coalition! It is important for us all that our constituents see what is happening in the Saeima and how we work. I think that would be the right direction, and I call on the working group and the relevant committee to think about this as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U299	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U300	Dear colleagues, I think that my colleague, Pimenov, has highlighted very important issues. Indeed, as we see the Saeima's website and the information in it... Is it the advertising page of the Saeima Presidium, or is it much less representative of the work that the opposition and all Members also do? One example: in fact there is nothing about the work of our delegations in international parliamentary assemblies. It is very positive that these delegations will now be given more attention; I certainly support this. But if the head of the EPPA Latvian delegation Inese Lībiņa-Egnere were present here, she would certainly emphasise this. I am doing this for her because, in fact, what we are doing in Strasbourg is not reflected at all. And I'm not sure if it could be spoken of in the Rule of Procedure, but maybe it should be shown in some way... However, this should be borne in mind. And our constituents have the right to know this, especially because Latvian media usually pay very little attention to what is happening outside Latvia. We are aware of those social media problems with correspondents in Brussels. If, however, what is happening in the European Parliament is even less, it is reflected in the media, then there is, in fact, nothing about other international and parliamentary assemblies. And another moment. Should the Rules of Procedure not, however, regulate in more detail the way in which the Member works? As far as I know, our Saeima is the only parliament (at least in Europe) where every Member has no separate office. When I say this to colleagues from other parliaments, I simply do not believe: how can it be that two or three Members sit in one room? People come to us with questions that are sensitive enough, but there is nowhere to talk about it confidentially. Unfortunately, the huge problem with parliamentary assistants remains. In every parliament where there are parliamentary assistants, but they are not everywhere... In Estonia, for example, Members do not have individual assistants at all, but there is otherwise all organized... But they're hired to us at the Saeima, but we don't even give them... I don't know... chair and computer. What is it supposed to be?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, Well, its wages are not as high, and these posts are less prestigious than those of Britain, for example. There the group's consultant work is more prestigious than that of a professor at university. We do not have such opportunities. But if we take it seriously, who is the parliamentary assistant? It's a man who... I don't know... the portfolio can bring you... Technical Assistance... or, nevertheless, a person who assists a Member in the performance of his basic duties. There must therefore be certain qualifications and so on. We need to think about ensuring at least minimum working conditions, that assistants have jobs. I do not think that all of this should be regulated in detail in the Rule of Procedure, but the principle itself should, in my opinion, be strengthened. Because, in my view, it was still from the times when the Member was only supposed to raise his hand in time. Gradually, we are changing it, but there is still much to be done in this regard. That is why, of course, we will also make proposals for the second reading. I think the Rules of Procedure must be changed, but all these issues... I am talking, of course, not about wages (this is a completely different question!) , but of the fact that certain conditions and conditions must be laid down for the proper performance of the Member's duties. And I think it would be entirely logical if its general issues of this kind were, however, dealt with in the parliamentary roll of order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U301	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U302	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think each of us would have something to say in this regard. This document may have less impact on voters, a wide range of people, but more directly on us, because, I would even say, it is the first document of our work before the Constitution - what we often see. I think a lot of work has been done. I did not have the opportunity to attend these sittings frequently, although I was delegated, but I took part in two or three. I had other working group meetings in parallel. I can say that the task force where I work is the task force for the President and for the election. The Legal Bureau separated from this work, but these working groups included not only the Legal Bureau and its manager, but also Gunārs Kusiņš, who for many years was the Head of the Legal Bureau. I think a good job has been done. At the same time, however... If you're talking about what the Member and the camera have told us, he must tell me, too, really... That village has often irritated me, and because of him I chose public sittings at the Zolitūde Commission of Investigation... Then I continued with the same recording mode... This is a lot of effort in this working group that I led. Of course, perhaps such public meetings should not always be held. It was possible to separate and prohibit a colleague from filming and recording these sittings, perhaps then we would be easier. However, I think that would be wrong. I would ask you to remember, however, that this is the first reading. We still have a second reading before us, and then we will be able to sort this out. Of course, ensuring that all commissions have such open sittings would be wasteful, maybe we would not even be able to ensure it financially... It would make this process very expensive... However, I will tell you openly, in some of the meetings of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, where I have had to take part, it would even be desirable to have such a direct broadcast, because it was very visible how lobbyists work, as Members suddenly start to speak this lobby in ‘language’. I think it would be a step in the right direction - at least on a case-by-case basis, to make these sittings, if they are interesting to the public, public broadcasting. In addition, some commissions have already been provided with the relevant facilities. I think that at first reading with these amendments, Solvita Āboltiņa has done well... ( Intercretion: “What is it now? ” ) And now... I'm sorry I can't talk to the hall. It should be noted that the Order Roll is not often corrected because... No, there have been many corrections, but no fundamental changes have been made. I think that there are fundamental changes that are taking place at the moment, because the previous major amendments - the code of ethics of the Saeima Members - were initiated by Ilmārs Bischer, who has now been abducted. To a large extent, we have continued to work after the first time of independence, the first Record of Order adopted by the Saeima. So, colleagues, let us work, and what other Members have said, Mr Pimenova and Mr Cilevič, of course, are interesting and workable. So I'm really going to say, fui, Solvita, that you won't let the neighbor film, but thank you very much for your big job.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U303	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U304	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Members! I will also be against two considerations, which I will explain. And if you accept, then... At least I call on them to pay attention. Both of us may be related to our desire to show off. First. If we ban their filming, it will really be a ban on Artus Neimins, and it is perhaps the right and good decision on the situation. This decision is going to look like that, and it's going to be against Artus Village, because now he's the only one in the film, he's the only one who shows that he wants to film and, as he wants, he's also in the film. Where could there be changes and some reasonableness for this ban if everyone gradually began to film? Because there is no one in Artusu today, and other Members want to show it differently, and then it is clear that we will understand: it is a madness in the final phase, and then Artus will also say that it must be banned. But at the moment such a decision would be against one. Then film you as well, and place you, and then there will be your own truth for each one. The second question is to question ministers, namely to start every meeting of the Saeima with the question of ministers. Now... It will also be one tedious show for further work if each sitting starts with it. Indeed, it will attract great attention, and it will not help others. A good tradition is a foreign debate, when the Foreign Minister is thoroughly questioned and talked about everything. That is perhaps one solution - it is also for the other ministers to come and, on a case-by-case basis, to give their industry all the attention, not to start every sitting with it. I am against this moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U305	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U306	Dear colleagues, Three things. The first thing is that we have to talk about, we have to look at amendments to the parliamentary roll or not? There is no doubt that we need to look at it, otherwise no amendments will be included. Is that good or bad? It seems to me that it is not particularly well thought out, because today we are putting this important issue on the agenda, which was included as an additional issue for consideration by the Saeima. This is already an example of bad practice. The other thing is about content. Yes, indeed, there are many problems. The problems begin with what the President of Latvia pointed out at the time - about readings, about shaping the agenda of the Saeima, because it is also “distributed” by commissions. Perhaps this is about the packaging of draft laws not only by their content, but also looking at draft laws by commissions, forming a agenda for them. There are other things that are directly related to the problems and solutions of the Order reel. It is to be congratulated that, let us say, it is proposed to change the response procedure, which, in my view, has so far led to absurdity. And the third thing. When it comes to the roll of order amendments, we are obliged, and this has been the subject of the debate today, and we are linking it with the organisation of the Saeima's work. And I think there are a lot of problems here, too. And these problems are not just in Members' offices - they are undoubtedly problems - but starting with workplace equipment, starting with, let us say, Members who do not use Saeima's auto-base transport cannot have access to their ministries, with which they work within the Commission, to public authorities, especially local authorities. To create the conditions for Members to improve their work so that they can work more easily, so that they think less about such things, sorry, domestic problems, but think more about the substance of things, about processes and about everything else - that I think would be very important. And in this case, I think I should also deepen the Rules of Procedure, perhaps also add the role of the Fraction Council in matters of the internal working organisation of the Saeima. I therefore call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading and for a sufficiently long deadline to be set for the submission of proposals to be able to discuss these matters in each group and for those proposals to be much more thought-out than those that have today led to such a large and wide-ranging discussion on two-litre bottles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U307	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U308	Colleagues! It is obvious that the parliamentary roll of order is out of date and that changes are needed there. It is very good that we have taken up this. And as one such obvious example of where, as I see, change really is needed, I can mention the power of decision to control the executive power. In particular, the question of the question of questioning procedure, for example. Well, that regulation is quite absurd in the current situation. As it is currently, it has, in principle, made use of this instrument, with which the decision-making power can exercise control over the executive power, meaningless. That is what I can say to you from my personal experience - as a person who has tried many times to ask these questions. In principle, ministers answer da anything, almost never answer what they ask; in turn, when they are called upon to a question and answer session, its question-and-answer session is made in such a way that nothing can be asked in principle, and the minister can also answer nothing in principle, because it is a scheme that one minute... The question must be asked within one minute and the Minister has been given a two-minute answer... In principle, on the basis of such a scheme, colleagues, I could answer any question instead of any Minister, and even more meaningfully than the ministers usually do. And so this questioning procedure makes no sense, and it usually does not. It is therefore absolutely necessary to change its order. And what was proposed to the Legal Commission is that they come here before the Saeima sitting, sitting... standing before us all and then everyone can appreciate the fools they're talking about there... Sometimes there have even been some good ministers who are simply in such a non-systemic state that they can't answer anything at all, and they just stand for these two minutes and don't answer anything. However, after the procedure, it appears that the Minister then answered the questions. And that's why the opposition usually doesn't call them either, so you can't put this bunch that he has answered. There you go! It must therefore be changed. But changes that I can't agree with (and I'll make my corrections!) , is in relation to openness, and I agree with Artus in that regard. If we have come here to work for the people, then the people have every opportunity... give every opportunity to see how we do it. Therefore, I believe that commission meetings should be as open as possible, given that we have made huge investments throughout this infrastructure, in these media, so that these meetings can be broadcast. In my opinion, provision should be made for them to be broadcast a priori wherever it is possible to broadcast the sittings. And they must be available on the website where a person can easily enter and follow what is going on there. Let society see how we work for it, and who do it in those sittings. That's one thing. And the other thing. The sittings should not be prohibited... There should be no prohibition. Do you want to film? Film each other, show you who you want to show it! What to be ashamed of? That is why my proposal has been made, and I myself will be tabling this proposal to remove such a ban. So that anyone who wants can film, record these sittings and show the public what's going on there. I agree that outside the commission meetings, however, ethical standards should be respected in relation to each other. It wouldn't make sense for Members to fly with each other in the cameras, say, on the toilet or on the canteen and film they're doing there. Well, it's absurd! It really should be limited. That is why I propose that this proposal, which is now... it should sound like restrictions are not in commission sittings, but outside commission sittings, when only these authorized equipment or those who have all this authorization to do so... Now I'm going to sum up what I'm saying. I very much hope that we will make a meaningful roll on the order of the Saeima, so my call and the request are as follows: we will set a sufficiently long deadline for tabling proposals so that it can be discussed by the political groups and, if necessary, come together and coordinate what we see these best solutions, and make a neat roll on the order of the Saeima, with which we can do a good job, and everyone will be pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U309	Name to Member Edgars Putras. So the name to Member Ainars Latkovsky, because Mr Putra refused the debate. Mr Latkovsky also rejected the debate. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U310	Yeah. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for the discussion. I did not point out that the working group consisted of representatives of all the political groups - from the position and from the opposition - that the working group also included people who had worked for the Bureau and who simply saw how the parliamentary roll works. The deputy Speaker of the Saeima also attended each of these sittings; therefore the Speaker of the Saeima, who is very important for the way in which the sittings are conducted, had sufficient information. I'll try to answer what's now sounded out... part of what has now been said. First of all, yes, thank you, Mr. Cilevič, definitely for... Inese also worked in this working group. And we're just... There is a technical amendment at the moment, but perhaps we can see how it is. As well as all these technical matters relating to both records and parliamentary assistants' offices. This is probably an issue for the Administration, and it can still be a question of the Fraction Council, under the current parliamentary roll, where we have the right to act on the Fraction Council not only when it is convened by the Bureau. A number of political groups also have the right to convene the Fraction Council, to initiate such questions. And so I would... as well as the former Speaker of the Saeima, I would be happy if we were much more active in building our own life. Because by nature, and not once, I have said, Parliament is a tradition. And the same question about these third-reading proposals... Well, what can we say? That's what the President pointed out, we're all criticised... Well, today we had the third reading again... Well, the Credit Institutions Act... was here... Writing or not, there are times when it may be necessary, when it is really urgent to decide, but it should be justified each time. And let's not pour a baby out of the bathroom! I mean, we... Once, the Saeima decided how... We ourselves abused Article 81 of the Satversme, which allowed the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt regulations with force of law during the inter-sessional session of the Parliament. All ministries simply waited for the intersessional session of the Saeima, and then passed the entire law. Of course, then the Saeima had to work with it, but now that all the fires were extinguished... And at one point, Parliament, by amending the Constitution, ruled out this article, and we are now discussing it, seeing in the unstable geopolitical situation that there is also military aggression here - in Ukraine... that we, to say, have also shed a child out, because the situation is going to happen... if there is war and an emergency... This regulation, regulation of Article 81, no longer exists. That would also be the case if we completely excluded the urgent votes or strongly banned from entering into the third reading amendments to the Credit Institutions' law that are needed by certain insolvency administrators in order to chok out a specific process. So that question, of course... Mr Latkovsky's answer to the... Well, Mr Latkovsky, I hope that you are not so tired. Today is a relatively long sitting. We usually come here and sit here at 10 a.m. Today we are really working very hard. And, as some have mentioned here, work only once a year - at the time of the adoption of the budget... Its long sittings - they do not honor us either, because we set this agenda... whether we have drafted any draft laws or not... And again, this argument, by which we oppose one other... Each of us has been elected by a part of society - both the leftmost and the most in the right - and we each have a voice in that part of society. And automatically to say that they just wanted to stop work, that they're going to just bother -- it's most wrong. You also signed this call, called for us to debate the substance and for us to try to have some kind of right relationship to each other much less. So you can't just say that all this will be stopped. Whether to hold separate ministerial debates for each theme of the ministries. I will remind you why the foreign debate came up. The result of the foreign policy debate was that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs developed the concept of foreign policy for 5-7 years long since its inception. But in today's changing world, it was concluded that such foreign policy directions could not be developed for 5-7 years, and it was proposed that all of this would be replaced every year by the report of the Foreign Minister and, therefore, by the involvement of Members, because we all have the right under the Constitution to present foreign policy as well. That this is what we are all debating. I think it's a very good tradition that we really... I see it's another of those sittings where we don't work by 10 a.m., 11 a.m. And that is why a foreign debate has arisen. The proposal on the possibility for all ministers to hold such a separate thematic debate was rejected for a number of reasons. It was rejected first of all because, as I said, there are 13 ministries, and then we will be so redoed again that we will not want to... But the main reason is that we are breaking this balance, that ministers must come to account for Parliament at a time when there is some topicality when it is necessary... Not just here... If we were to introduce each minister's debate, then, I am afraid, it would go beyond such a very beautiful ministerial PR event, in which the ministry with its apparatus prepared hugely beautiful presentations about how well this minister worked well and beautifully. Of course, there is an opportunity for us to talk and maybe criticise at that point, but that resource that is professionally opposed could... But in any event, such a discussion remained open, so that it could probably still be... Yeah, I think... Well, I really would like every single moment... and I really call for a little more time to break the parliamentary roll... I call on you, the National Union, to consider whether, in this situation, the political roll of order of the Saeima is so much needed for the Speaker of the Saeima, who is yours... Is the reason why you don't like it so much that Rasnačs would come here and tell us what he's doing and how he's doing... and we could all hear it... Is that the reason why you do not vote in favour? That's... And then, of course, there is the question of records, of democracy. Indeed, our Parliament is very open. Parliament is open to many events, and it seems that the Speaker of the Saeima could assure you of this. And follow how many events with different... representatives of different professions. There are measures for both disabled people and children, and there is also a forum for non-governmental organisations. Parliament is open. Any sitting shall be open. This sitting is open. Everything's being recorded. Everything can be fixed, and everything can be seen. What we are discussing is to make it even more open. As regards filming, what is so worrying here by individual Members, it should be said that, of course, any restriction on doing something is very carefully assessed. And, of course, the Law Office has assessed the practices of other countries, and its practice of filming shows that most parliaments do not have such regulation. Where this regulation exists, it is in practice in the form of a ban. Basically, this regulation is that the heads of the sittings are responsible for securing order in the sittings and, if there is no order in the sittings, they have the right to both punish and prohibit such acts. Of course, any prohibition should be seen from the point of view of Article 100 of the Satversme and Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. They also protect the freedom of expression and expression of Members of the Saeima, including the opportunity to participate in a debate on issues of public interest. And for this purpose, to film in public sittings of the Saeima and the Saeima... this right is not limited. Both Article 100 of the Satversme and Article 10 of the Convention may be restricted in order to protect the rights of other persons and to prevent disorder. So in order to protect the rights of others and prevent disorder, such a legitimate ban could be, but I would like to say that there is no such ban either. There is specific regulation there, and if we were to respect each other and respect each other, then we would probably not discuss it either. And I will also give Mr Latkovsky an answer. Each legislative process and each legislative provision arises according to the specific needs of a specific legal historical process. And if, at the moment, we see that something interferes with Parliament's work and that we simply do not work on these traditions, which are working in the normal parliament, then we must probably think about some kind of legislative provision. So I really thank all those who had an interest. I am calling for a real debate in my political groups. The deadline for tabling proposals will be long, and I really hope that, first of all, we can together establish the parliamentary roll of order as a document that will make it easier for us to work for ourselves. Secondly, however, we will be able to give the public more reason to trust that we are working for the people who have elected us. So, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U311	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first-reading vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Parliamentary Rule of Procedure. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 5, for - 6. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U312	The deadline for submitting proposals is August 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U313	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 18 August this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ilze Viņķelė.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U314	Say hello, colleagues! To your attention the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” developed by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which aims to improve the competitiveness and quality of Latvian universities, as well as the exportability of higher education. Very briefly on the content of the draft law. It was drafted by the commission's working group and we agreed that we are heading for the first reading with proposals on which the Commission has a consensus. I stress - not a compromise solution, but consensus! Thus, for the second reading, there are many more proposals that we will obviously still have to work on. But what about the commission? The Commission agreed on the following proposals: The Law provides for regulation that a university which has not received this accreditation in exceptional accreditation is excluded from the Register of Higher Education, a period of four months for which a decision on licensing of study programmes is to be taken. This has not been the case so far. We also provide for the right of universities and colleges to choose from among those registered in the international list of higher education quality assurance agencies European Quality Assurance Register for Higher Education (EQAR). Finally, we also take on a matter that has not been resolved for years – we also propose to introduce a professional doctorate in the field of “art”. This has not been possible so far. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U315	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U316	The deadline is August 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U317	Thank you. Proposals are due by 1 August this year. Discussion of the own-initiative proposal The draft decision – “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 594 Latvian citizens “On possibility to receive compensation for the delivery of PET bottles and other beverages””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U318	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! In accordance with Section 131 and Section Five of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Application considered the received collective application “On the possibility to receive compensation for the transfer of packages of PET bottles and other beverages”. The Commission heard the applicants who invited the Saeima to support the creation of a deposit system for PET bottles and other beverages packaging in Latvia. The grounds for the application are mainly a comparison with Lithuania and Estonia, as well as with some other countries of the European Union, such as Germany. In the current situation, legislation of the Republic of Latvia allows for the introduction of a deposit system, but account should be taken of the fact that the cost of this system is not low - it is about 80 million euros. Representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development took part in the Commission meeting, which reminded Members that Latvian laws currently allow voluntary introduction of a waste sorting deposit system. In general, representatives of the Ministry consider it necessary to study this issue in order to be able to compare the experience of neighbouring countries. According to their data, there are a number of problems. They relate mainly to partial or incomplete compliance with the requirements contained in European Union directives. In Estonia, the deposit system was introduced in 2006. It was introduced gradually in Lithuania: initially it was introduced for reusable glass packaging, but as of 1 January 2017, it was introduced for single-use beverage packaging from glass, PET and metal packaging. This decision was political. After meeting with representatives of the State Environment Service, the Commission noted that public education should be continued and measures should be taken to meet this task. Non-governmental representatives expressed concerns about the losses that businesses and traders would incur by adopting one or the other amendment of the law. The representatives of the Association of Latvian Waste Management Companies were concerned, for example, about the fact that the system of separate collection of waste could cause damage if the packaging, which partly gives maintenance of the entire system and does not leave the collection of waste, was removed from it. Currently, the main challenge in Latvia is the separation of biomass in the shared waste collection system, which was reported by the non-governmental sector, which already cooperates with the students of Riga Technical University and future scientists. The public limited liability company Green Point provided data from a study on Germany. In Germany, which is the first of the countries to introduce the system, it was found after some time that they did not solve the problem of forest pollution because they only accept intact packaging bottles. The opinion of the Latvian Traders Association is more positive than negative, unless the cost burden lies on the trader's shoulders. The position of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on this issue has been unchanged since 2010. It has never supported the introduction of a deposit system and it does not support it at present. The existing shared waste collection systems in infrastructure and maintenance, both for VARAM (through EU funds) and for public and private operators, have invested heavily. The representatives of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry also stressed that the implementation and maintenance of the second parallel system will be expensive. The Latvian Municipal Union has never agreed to mix and create various waste management systems and has always supported the current system, because it is necessary to collect and recycle all types of packaging. Having assessed all the information received, the Commission concluded that there would be a need for an in-depth study on this issue. Consequently, on 31 May 2017, the Commission, together with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, unanimously supported the draft decision of the Saeima, which intends to submit a collective application of 10 594 Latvian citizens for further evaluation to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, ordering it to carry out an evaluation of the legal framework in the Baltic States and to prepare a report of the Saeima on the possibilities to amend the relevant laws and regulations, including information on how the education of society, municipalities and waste managers in this area is carried out. The Ministry shall submit this report to the Saeima by 1 March 2018. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U319	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U320	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, I have to delay you for a couple of minutes, because, according to my understanding, the draft decision does not quite accurately reflect the debate that took place within the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications and the sub-committee on Environment and Climate Policy convened on this issue. See the assessment of the legal framework, which is awarded by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development! Well, it's minor, because there's nothing unclear there. There is no particular need to assess, all of this is also clear for all three Baltic countries. What should be assessed? The financial aspect needs to be assessed. For, see, experience from other countries shows that the introduction of a deposit system affects the costs of other types of waste management. This could lead to higher costs for the public in terms of waste management, as well as the introduction of this deposit system. I call on the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, in its information report to be submitted on 1 March next year, to include information on the possible economic and financial impact of the deposit system on the existing system of shared collection of waste in Latvia, taking as an example Lithuania's experience and therefore these quantitative data. In Lithuania, the deposit system in parallel to the shared collection system was introduced in January of this year, and therefore this deadline - 1 March - means that Latvia will be able to analyse this experience in Lithuania quite scrupulously over the course of the year. I personally think that this experience will be negative and that these costs will be increasing, and they are already... Lithuania reports that costs have increased - significantly increased! - compared to planned. In essence, Lithuania's experience needs to be explored. And if we're talking about the aims of an initiativeer, so a preparer... These goals, in my opinion, were definitely not, well, for power wallets, to achieve the introduction of a deposit system in Latvia at any cost. In my opinion, the authors of this initiative thought to reduce the actual amount of packaging that came into the Latvian environment, as well as to reduce the access of recycled plastics to landfills. That was the real goal. How can this objective be achieved? Either by developing, developing and improving the system of separate collection of waste, which is already working in Latvia... In some 70 municipalities it already works well... So - either walking this way or really trying to introduce this deposit system. And so I also call on VARAM to include in its information report information on the figures and trends of the existing shared waste collection system in Latvia, as well as to draw up a plan of measures and a timetable to ensure access to shared waste collection services for citizens at the appropriate level in all municipalities. So if, in March, this information report shows that there is progress in Latvia and we can achieve the goals of waste management with the existing system, then, most likely, based on this information, we would also have reason to be sceptical about the implementation of the deposit system. Finally, it should be noted that the introduction of a deposit system is indeed costly. For several years we have invested in the development of a shared waste collection system, both European and private, and we will continue to invest in this system during this period of European Union funding. And so we need to look for 80 million to develop the deposit system. I do not think that it would be very reasonable if, of course, the goal could be achieved in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U321	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? So it's not. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 594 Latvian citizens “On the possibility to receive compensation for the delivery of PET bottles and other beverage packaging””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you about the meeting to be held today for answers to Members' questions. The question of Members Silver, Platoper, May, Curry and Baloža by the Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Results of the Special VAT Application regime”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Silver, May, Baloža, Platoper and Cura's Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On the replacement of cash registers”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. We have received a question from Members Silver, May, Platoper, Shimfa and Balož, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šaduriskis, about national policies on teacher preparation and teacher forecasting, which we are going to answer to the Minister of Education and Science. Dear colleagues, On June 4, Member Sergey Mirski celebrated the 65th anniversary, and we congratulate him! (Applause) Thank you. Please call me! Please have Members' presence regime! Name of Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris as soon as the results of the registration have been prepared. Name of the statement to Member Ivars Freezers.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U322	Ladies and gentlemen, please note a brief statement! I was at the Embassy of the Slovak Republic in Riga yesterday. I met Consul Daniel Orsagag and we had a joint proposal to set up a group of Members to cooperate with the Slovak Parliament. So I ask those interested in this case to gather in the Yellow Hall five minutes later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U323	I remind you that a centenary meeting is held at the Saeima at 13.20. Name for the statement to Member Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U324	Dear colleagues, Last Friday there was an international basketball tournament between Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian parliaments. Unfortunately, the Estonians were not won, but the Lithuanians were won. As a result, our Saeima team has 2nd place in this year's Baltic Assembly tournament. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U325	Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U326	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the Committee on European Affairs will begin at 13.00 in our usual premises. Please all attend.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U327	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U328	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Gundars Dauge, Raivis Dzintars, Rihards Eigims, Andrejs Elksniņš, Rihards Kols, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Nikita Nikiforovs and Mihail Zemlinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-06-08-PT12-423-U329	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
