ParlaMint-LV_2017-05-04-PT12-416-U1	Good morning, everybody! ( Pause) Good morning, Prime Minister. Honourable Members! Excellency! On 4 May 2017, the Saeima opened its formal sitting dedicated to the 27th anniversary of the restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-05-04-PT12-416-U2	Name for a solemn address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-05-04-PT12-416-U3	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! May 4 is a celebration created by our own hands. We were the ones who recorded this day in history forever. We were in the Baltic Way, in the singing revolution and on the barricades. This is a festival that we set apart with our own desire for freedom, with a dream of an independent Latvia, with a strong national culture, love for our language and land. These were people from among us who 27 years ago adopted the declaration “On the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Latvia”. We ourselves, our parents and grandparents were in the middle of the thousands who were here, near the Saeima House, and later on the river Daugava with tears in the eyes of our independent state. Since then, our children have been born independent in Latvia. Since then, everything has been in our hands. This is our strength and will, which will make Latvia exist forever and the sun in the coat of arms of Latvia never set. What are we proud of today? With the fact that two times in the age we have firmly demonstrated the national will of the Latvian people, the ability to agree and write our own history. We have demonstrated our ability to assume responsibility for our country, whose name is the Republic of Latvia. We are proud that 27 years ago, we were able to restore the same principles and values that Latvia built on 18 November 1918. We renewed the Constitution, which states that the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia. We renewed the country, which consists of Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale, where the state language is Latvian. For the second time in the century, we proved that our choice is and remains an independent, democratic, Latvian country. We are not only proud, but also happy and happy that every time we return home from a trip or a foreign journey, we can thank God or fate for living in Latvia. Here are our homes, here is safe, here is our language, here are our families and friends. We have our place on the earth, we have our homeland, it is beautiful, and we love it, because it is ours! We can be proud of the fact that we have managed to implement a major change in the Latvian economy. From the Soviet Empire, which had so bad that even the simplest food goods had not been available, we have come to an integrated, open economy in the European Union. Latvia has joined the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which brings together 35 developed countries of the world and accounts for 80 percent of the global economy. We have consistently gone to improving the economic situation and promoting prosperity. Yes, there have been a number of major mistakes on this road. The way in which privatisation started after the restoration of independence, how the idea of certificates was implemented, how the privatisation of strategic infrastructure took place, all of which has had negative consequences. These errors have prevented the formation of a normal middle layer for many years. They have created a difficult gap between the population groups in terms of wealth. And unfortunately, not work in many cases is a pledge of wealth in our country. We had to survive the economic crisis created by Russia in 1998 and the global financial crisis of 2007-2010, exacerbated by the bubble of real estate speculation in our own homes. The scars laid down in the last crisis were the deepest in society. It reflected the fate of people and their attitude towards the state. Thousands went to live and work in other countries to support families, pay mortgages, and stay above water. Latvia has paid heavy money for these mistakes. And they continue to be paid for. Unfortunately, we have not been able to claim personal responsibility for these mistakes, which would help us not to repeat them. Heads of State must work in such a way that people can trust their decisions so that they feel that decisions are made in the public interest. Honorable residents of Latvia! We have been in the euro area for three years. It was the right and necessary decision for Latvia. Economists promise that the next three years of entrepreneurship will be relatively successful. The situation in the euro area and the world promise better conditions, which will be reinforced by the availability of European funds. This time should be used to offset the losses incurred and to strengthen our financial security. This year has started well in the country's economy. Latvian exports are increasing. I am particularly pleased that good results have been achieved in sectors with high added value and intellectual investment. It is a path to Latvia – smart technologies, small but valuable companies that can export their products. Experience shows that products created in Latvia are innovative, competitive and excellent. We need to promote their development. We have created everything that is good in Latvia. We must not be disdained by this. We must multiply it, show it, we must be proud of it. Just as we are proud of the success of our children and loved ones, we are proud of the good harvest of the plants planted with our own hands. We need to be aware, grow and show our power! Latvia has its own National Development Plan, which we prepared for the country's medium-term development from 2014 to 2020. The main objective of this plan is economic breakthrough. Now is the time for the government to show the public – the breakthrough will be! We know how to achieve this, and everyone will benefit. On behalf of the economic breakthrough, the government has now developed a fundamentally new tax policy. The debate on this reform must also be an active part of society as a whole. But with consciousness – for the state to have more money, taxes have to be better collected and taxes paid by everyone. With the understanding that telephony is more important than the need for a moment. The ability to evaluate not only from its own courtyard, but also thinking about Latvia as a whole. We are all interested in positive change. Because we ourselves are doctors and sick people who lack funding in the health sector, we are those students and teachers who need reform in the education system. We and our family members, friends and relatives are the officials, fire-fighters, farmers and businessmen who have to create an environment for the economic prosperity of Latvia as a whole. We are the ones who wait for their sons and daughters, brothers and sisters to return to Latvia from work in other countries. Politicians need to develop reforms that have a positive impact on the future of the country and increase its wealth! If Latvia does not find any new paradigm for the development of its economy now, unfortunately, we are threatened with staggering for many years. Ladies and gentlemen! The world is changing enormously now. We are face to face with the challenges of the 21st century. It is not just a global economy, an unlimited exchange of information, a free movement that has both a positive and a negative impact. It is also Russia's aggression in Ukraine and the occupation of Crimea. It is the Brexit and a tangible effort by the Kremlin to break down and weaken Europe's unity, to influence the elections in the countries of Western democracy. We are also in the face of other epoch changes. This is a massive migration of the population in Europe, the suspension of which is currently not covered by the necessary instruments. These are unconventional security risks, unconventional policies and new policy perceptions. We need to understand these processes and learn to manage them. We need to know how we will protect Latvia in the second century of our country. I agree with those who believe that Europe will find a way to cope with this pressure. Europe is likely to change, but it is not to be destroyed. Europe is rational. Europe will remain united, exist and develop. And will remain faithful to its values. Latvia will also exist and continue to develop, holding on to its values. European freedoms have become an integral part of our lives and we are not going to abandon them. Yet, the enormous changes we face are, of course, making us mobilize and mobilise ourselves. Think of security from a point of view that we have not yet been able to do so. Both historical and contemporary experience shows that Latvian soldiers have always been an example of patriotism and vitality, admired at home and in the world. I think that the very high trust in the National Armed Forces has inspired almost half of Latvians to show that they are ready to fight weapons in their hands to defend Latvia. Latvia has also activated the principle of total or general protection enshrined in the National Defence Concept. It involves the involvement of society as a whole in national defence, the fact that guaranteeing the existence and protection of the state is not only a military task but a national one. Our NATO allies are also ready to defend Latvia, and the security of the Baltic States is also their priority. The NATO enhanced presence in the Baltic States and Poland will involve 17 allies. Together with the three Baltic States, this means 20 NATO nations – is it not a clear signal of solidarity and deterrence? We value very much the strengthening of NATO's forces in the Baltic region. However, in order to face today's security challenges, the continued military presence of the United States is crucial. The United States is our reliable ally and partner – I once again became convinced of this a few days ago in Washington, when I met with the U.S. Congress House of Representatives, Speker Paul Ryan. I received no doubt from Speker Ryan that the United States will continue to support the security of the Baltic States in the same way. Latvia has taken huge steps in strengthening its defence capabilities and in 2018 two percent of gross domestic product will be allocated to national defence. And we only have one message: Latvia will resist and will not give up in case of both military and non-military attack! We have never given up and will never give up! Of course, it is not just weapons that are important for safety. Let us ask ourselves, ‘ Are we prepared and able to protect ourselves? ’ Can we take care of our children and our family? And it does not apply only to dangerous cases, it applies to any situation, to everyday life. The feeling of security must be based on the sense that we are able to take responsibility for ourselves. That we have thought not only about today, but also about tomorrow. That we not only have Plan A, but also Plan B. This is our biggest challenge, which still needs to be seriously worked on – to create a greater sense of security for people about their future. Dear people! In recent years, efforts have been made to understand the identity of our own people and that of our people, by comparing national values with their own and universal human values. Sociologists and psychologists, philosophers and lawyers have spoken about Latvianism and Latvian psychological features. Answers to these questions sometimes try to describe with tangible examples – identity is a flag, folk dress, country farm, gray peas with a beak. Sometimes Latvians try to describe the dark colors – Latvians are sceptical, cautious, suspicious. A theatre show recently even cried out: Latvians, here they are! But what is the one who unites and mobilizes the people? What makes an ethnic identity to be felt and preserved through the centuries? What makes a Latvian proud of his origin and love his country, even if it is not perfect? I think all of this is something that no one can ever take away. It's an ancestor's heritage, it's a sense of belonging, thoughts, and way of life. That's the eternal way home. It's the love of the fatherland. And it can only feel in the heart. It is a long feeling that has always done strong things to Latvians and that no one has ever won. Yes, perhaps we are too careful when we show love when we give praise when we are proud of what we have done. Maybe we haven't managed to explain why we celebrate May 4 and November 18, why do we light candles on November 11 and pick crowns in John? Why do two million Latvians have their own country, their own living language, unique culture and so many outstanding personalities?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why do we have all this?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The answer is in our spirit, in our ability to change the course of history. It was in 1918, it was in 1990. The answer is also that, without saying much about this, we suddenly unheard of, unseen to be united, put our shoulders together and strengthen our position if the alarm to the security of Latvia is heard. And these are not tangible things. Throughout the decades, Latvians have demonstrated their ability to manage their historical destiny at crucial moments. All this is because we love our country, because we love Latvia. Latvians can rely on themselves and each other. We are not the victims of history. We are the victors of history! Honourable Members! Excellency! People of the Nations! After a few hours Members of the Saeima, members of the Supreme Council who voted for independence on 4 May, as well as diplomats and our guests will go to Rezekne, where we will celebrate the centenary of the Latgale Congress. At this convention 100 years ago it was decided that Latgale, Vidzeme and Kurzeme Latvians are one nation and Latgale should join with the other regions of Latvia in one country. As Bishop Jāzeps Rancāns said at the end of his life, one of the inspirers of this event, “The Latgale Congress is one of the works that appear as cornerstones in the foundation of independent Latvia”. The Latgale Congress was the one that brought the third star, Latgale, into Latvia's crown. Latgale Congress is a bright page of Latvia's history, which once again confirms – right decisions have been made in Latvia at all historically decisive moments. For the benefit of my country. They are accepted democratically but persistently, unitedly and purposefully. It was at the Latgale Congress 100 years ago, on November 18, 1918 and May 4, 1990. We have created Latvia for ourselves, restored its independence and will ensure its existence forever and forever. God bless Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-05-04-PT12-416-U4	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima. (Applause) ( A national anthem is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-05-04-PT12-416-U5	Sir, Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! On May 4, 2017, I declare the official sitting of the Saeima closed and I invite you to celebrate the celebration together in the Saeima Red Hall! Thank you.
