ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U1	Hello, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! We will begin the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 27 July 2017. First, the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted to it. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On the recognition of the Constitution of the Law “On the Academy of Education and Education of Riga Academy of Education” as forceless” be handed over to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Education’ submitted by Members to the Education, Culture and Science Commission by Silver, Kūtra, Platoper, Shimfa and Maya be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Arvīds Platopers has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” (No 983/Lp12), which we will consider today, was submitted to 17 proposals from the group “From the heart to Latvia”. One of them was supported. The others were related to social rehabilitation. Given that we will have a problem with boarding schools and special schools in the future, the new law also wanted to incorporate this issue into general education in schools where... one part of the students from these schools will be integrated into conventional general education schools... so that the law covers and solves issues of how children will work, who will get out of these schools in general schools. Mr Šadurski, the Minister for Education and Science, also took part in the work of the Commission, and his promise was to take part personally in this matter, as it relates to fiscal discipline, to money, to the state's attitude towards this new situation that may develop in the future, and we very much hope that, already in August, we will resolve this issue and, when this draft law is examined in three readings, we will evaluate all the proposals and incorporate them into law. So that I call on everyone to support this draft law so that we can sort out this issue, which relates to social rehabilitation, with the students who have been studying so far in boarding schools and special schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U3	Ms. Ilze Viņķelė, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U4	Hello, colleagues! It is exactly as Mr Platoper has said - with the Ministry and Minister Kārli Šadurski, it has been agreed that we are starting work on this issue of social rehabilitation, possibly including it in the Education Act as early as August. The Commission is ready to come and work with it. However, I call for these amendments not to be introduced in a separate opening because, in the autumn, sufficiently significant amendments to the Education Act are to be expected and these things should be seen in conjunction. I therefore reaffirm, on my own behalf, the Commission's willingness to work on these issues, and Mr Šadurskis also confirms his willingness to cooperate with the Commission already in the summer. Please, let's look at it! Let us not conclude the Law on Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U5	Thank you. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 12, for - 39. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The next item is "The establishment, approval and examination of the reports of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry". On the agenda - draft decision on the election of members of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the signs of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No 16870000911. So, first of all, we are starting a debate. It will then be possible to vote. Are you in the debate, Mr Judine? So we are starting a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U6	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that, despite the scandal we saw last week, we have managed to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. But everyone is also aware that we didn't work within a week: we were waiting for nominations. We will be able to start working when we approve the members of the panel. All the political groups have put forward their proposals. But there is one question that I would like to inform you about... draw your attention. The work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry shall be governed by a special law. And the law contains Article 4, paragraph 2 of which provides that Members of the Saeima who, acting within the parliamentary committee, have a conflict of interest shall not be elected and act on the parliamentary committee. Of course, before the commission begins to work, we cannot judge what happened, we cannot draw the same conclusions. But I want to remind you: we plan to analyse the public talks, we plan to draw conclusions. Mrs Silver is also mentioned in the negotiations. Once again, this does not mean that a person is guilty or innocent. But there is such a concept as a conflict of interest. And if someone sees that he is involved in some way, he cannot be both an investigator and an investigator at the same time. I am surprised that Mrs Silver has agreed to work for the Commission. Perhaps she is determined to prove that all that information does not correspond to the truth. But, in my view, people who are not mentioned in the negotiations can best judge this issue. I therefore call for a separate vote for each candidate and then for a commission that is capable of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U7	Thank you. Mr. Curry, you're in the debate... Is that so? So the name to Member Gunar Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! I understand that Mr Judina has taken part in the debate on the draft decision itself and not on the voting order, so I will also use the opportunity at this point and I will be speaking in the debate specifically on the content. I understand this: the conflict of interest situation means that a person has done something wrong or has done very well on an issue that needs to be investigated. If a person is named somewhere - or in a newspaper or where - it does not cause any conflict of interest: simply a person who has not participated in the negotiations is named. And the other thing. If we are talking about the content side, firstly, we know very clearly the content of this sentence at the moment, but secondly, we do not know what other names are mentioned in the audio or recordings. I understand that you all risk being included in this list as well. I therefore call on Members to decide on the matter in such a way that we do not sort Members in any way. If a Member feels that there is a conflict of interest there, the Code of Conduct will impose on him an obligation to abandon this activity. But the Code of Ethics says... if his activity is related to what needs to be investigated. In this case, there is no talk of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U9	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U10	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Parliament has always been based on the principle of collegiality in its work of speaking and forming parliamentary committees. No political group usually mixes in the work and choice of another political group by making its own decision or any other decision. And neither our group nor any other group should decide whether or not a Member is in a parliamentary commission. The group in question takes full responsibility for this, and it controls and makes its comments: it has been a successful Member or a failed Member. Naturally, this parliament will enter into parliamentary history with the fact that, for the first time in the history of Latvia, a coalition and a coalition group have initiated the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The Group's Unity representatives have therefore expressed their distrust with the Chairman of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Corruption Prevention, the Chairman of the Legal Commission, the Chairman of the National Security Commission and the Minister of the Interior. The four names represent the Unity of Groups. So you have expressed your distrust with your colleagues because within the framework of parliamentary control - and we are as if a parliamentary republic! - it is Parliament that exercises this control. And within the framework of the above-mentioned commissions, there would be absolutely no problem in doing whatever is necessary to arrive at any conclusion. Consequently, the whole emotive that we are talking about here is obviously an attempt by individual individuals to create a platform for themselves for the next parliamentary elections. When we talk about personal and conflicts of interest, we will also remember the recent history that the Unity Group delegated its representative to an investigative commission whose work ended with nothing. We can also remember what the Prosecutor-General and the representatives of KNAB spoke about at the last meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, when they devoted to Parliament the accusations that the Operational Act was incomplete. And now an elementary question. Let us remember - who then led the sub-committee, which had to develop a new Law on Operational Activities? It was Member Judin. Is there indeed no conflict of interest in this case, Mr Judine? The dry balance is nothing, but people got paid. Taking time from other people, spending this time - and what did it end? Not with anything! Go on. Mr. Judin, you are still a lawyer, but you are a lawyer. A.Judins: “You are the Member of the People’s Service!” ), before you formed this commission of inquiry, but you should have also had some interest in history. The first part of this project reads: “On the signs of the parliamentary investigation commission on the state theft... “ That’s the first part. You should have looked... look at a little bit of history. If I don't remember, in 1997 or 1998 the World Bank published a report that the country has been stolen in Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “It’s already?Oh, “ What are you talking about in this context? I also have some reflections on how Members will check the quality of pre-trial investigations in the relevant criminal proceedings. Are Members smarter than prosecutors and judges who have made decisions? Although the questions that could be clarified in the order of parliamentary scrutiny should certainly be asked - and very much! There is a great deal of uncertainty, both about initiating the operational development case itself, and about the quality of criminal proceedings and everything else. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Līķa: “Time!” ) I call for support for this draft decision (Dep. A. Berzins: “Let it speak!” ) and to respect the principle of collegiality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U11	Name to Member Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U12	First of all, I want to thank Mr Adamson for having had the courage to support the creation of the commission a week ago. I realize that this week he has long thought maybe himself. — Dep. J.Adamson: “Read the Constitution, Mr. Judine!” )... and, therefore, today's view of whether they should be commissioned or not. I understand all this and appreciate the ability to draw such conclusions and even question what has been voted on in the past. You're right! As a rule, we respect the views of our colleagues and do not interfere, as you said, with the offers from other political groups, but this commission is special. What is it interesting with? The task is to assess issues related to theft of the state. There are Members who vote because they believe and there are Members who serve. There are people outside the parliament who decide exactly how we live, how it will be better. And those postmen come and read here, report, do. It's a parliament... The same is true at other levels. I also agree with what Mr Kūtra said: if a person is mentioned, that does not mean anything yet. But we also need to look at the context. If, for example, those oligarchs (let's assume that all this is true) had some anger in relation to this man, there would be some comments, perhaps even insulting, that would be different. But they're talking about a project in a neighbouring country and they can don't worry at all: this problem will be solved. I don't know if this is true or true. But a person whose name is mentioned in this context to work and decide whether or not a neighbouring country has an interest here... You can't do that. So colleagues, of course, you will decide how you like it. But I have a request - maybe we won't do any orders this time, we'll vote for Latvia. Because that's our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U13	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U14	Mr. Adamson! You mentioned that the other parliamentary groups do not have the right to influence which Members are delegated from a particular political group to a committee. Of course, there is a practice of supporting the members of the Commission when they come from different political groups. But I'll remind you that there was a case in 2012... In 2011, 2012 there was a case when the National Association voted against the inclusion of Jānis Urbanovičs in the National Security Commission. A little later, he had to leave the commission because he did not accept the country’s secret. As it now turns out, this case took place about a year after the publication of the oligarchs' negotiations, where Jānis Urbanovičs is also one of the participants in the negotiations, who is figuring in several of these negotiations. Did the National Association do wrong then by voting against his approval? I see history proving that we were doing the right thing at that time. At the moment, the work of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry is being directed towards Mrs Silver, which is also mentioned in the negotiations that have taken place, and which, according to paragraph 10 of the Code of Conduct for Members of the Saeima, I believe cannot participate in the work of this committee as a representative. It seems strange to me that one of her most active advocates for work in this parliamentary commission is once again a party that was proud a few days ago that its agreement with the United Russia was the same as that of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. ( FROM a faction: “Sir, come home! ” ) At least do not act so clearly in this protection of the common interest! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “You didn’t say that to the end what you wanted!” ; from a fraction ASSOCIATED: “Do treat your head!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U15	The name of Member John Adamson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U16	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Judin! I do not object or oppose the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry for one reason. Because this order is laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. And if someone has invented and collected signatures for unknown reasons, I can't object, whatever I want or don't want. I fully accept that it is absolutely clear to each other in this Chamber what is to blame, which is not to blame, and I even allow the possibility that a blackscript for the next report, the final report to name the guilty or the innocent is already in place. Unlike many of us here, I have not read the so-called "Rīdzene" talks and I am not going to do it for one reason - until the Prosecutor General's Office and the KNAB say that these negotiations are authentic (although there was a certain degree of scepticism on the part of the responsible officials during the committee's sitting on this issue), while I believe that I simply do not need to have time to read or read something. That is why I did not oppose the creation of this commission. Because of respect for the constituencies. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “Thank you for that! Thank you very much.’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U17	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Yesterday, when information appeared that the Group “From the Heart to Latvia” has nominated Inguns Silver for work in this Commission, a reference appeared in the media to a video strike that was shown in 2013 in the “Nothing Personal”. And this story, which was shown several times and again in the media, showed Mrs. Silverba approaching the restaurant that Mr. Shlesser had previously entered. They had lunch there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Clicken: “There can’t be! It wasn’t her!” ) We cannot, of course, check the authenticity of this negotiation at the moment because we do not know whether there is a record of this negotiation. It may ever be revealed, but perhaps not. But one thing we can all say when we look at this story in the media is that it was Mrs Silver and that it was Mr Sleser. And that this conversation took place shortly after Mrs Silverba had announced her involvement in politics and the establishment of a political party at lunch in the restaurant. Colleagues! We can only speculate today whether there will ever be public talks showing that Mr Šleser and Mrs Silver are perhaps discussing what is meant by the "candidacy in Moscow" and what the conditions are for this candidacy, and so on. We do not know that. But the fact that such a conversation may have been recorded and will appear somewhere is, of course, not excluded. Dear colleagues, It is precisely because the name of Mrs Silverba appears in the oligarchy negotiations, precisely because the media have this video, where the authenticity of Mrs Silverba's presence cannot really be questioned, that Mrs Silverba should not operate in this commission. Dear colleagues, As early as 2011, when the Saeima decided to allow a search in Mr Šleser's home, the Saeima took the lead in clarifying the truth. If this search had taken place in good time, it is possible that sufficient evidence would have been collected in the oligarchi case to bring charges. In the light of this very, very bitter experience, I would like, colleagues, to call on all of us to vote in favour of the members of the committee separately, and I will not personally support Mrs Silver's work in this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U19	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U20	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I do not even question the good faith of Mrs Silver if she is working in this commission, nor do I think that there would be any kind of manipulation on her part. Here too, neither formal nor legal nor moral conflicts can be seen. However, the psychological conflict has arisen, and it is now being exacerbated even further. Yes, the person is now mentioned in their “oligarchs” (footsteps!) in interests, and of course this psychological conflict is here, and it will also give the impression to the work of the Commission that they are investigating themselves, even though it would not be too bad, because I have to say that we are quite a lot with the authors of these negotiations in both the 11th and the 12th Saeima, indirectly making different decisions. I have not been moralising here, but I set out my arguments why I also call on Latvia to lead another candidate from the heart.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U21	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U22	Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission has not yet worked any day, no hour, but we are already beginning to talk about the criteria for selecting the members of this parliamentary committee of inquiry. Perhaps it should really be recorded in the law that only those Members who are admitted to national secrecy could be such. Perhaps other criteria could be added: the gender mark, let us say, the marital status and so on, and so on. Maybe we should start working for the commission first, because so far, you forgive me! - experience shows that none of the parliamentary committees set up by the Saeima - none! - had not finished his work by crowning it with success or some real results. I would like this commission to start working, however, and to set an example that investigations can really have positive consequences, not empty speeches, and - forgive me! - also open mumming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U23	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U24	Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is time to talk about the basis on which we are building this commission. And I absolutely do not agree with Mr Dolgopolova (Dep. S.Dolgopolov: “And don’t!” ), because when, if not now, we need to talk about what foundations we put in the commission so that it does not (quoted colleagues) "museum and empty work". And again. You don't have to triple the questions! No one is talking about the state of a person’s family or his ethnic background. Mrs Silver has - if not found - but very close to this - a conflict of interest in this parliamentary commission, and we are also regulated by the regulatory framework. So please keep in mind, what kind of commission we will set up, how the ships will be called, how it will swim or sink.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U25	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U26	Dear colleagues, Thank you, Mrs. Viņķele. Who has identified a conflict of interest? In my opinion, the law sets out how a conflict of interest is found. Who has identified a conflict of interest? So now, on your part, it's an empty emulation.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U27	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U28	Hotel “Rīdzene”. People who visit it. And I'm proud to be one of those who are in this “Rīdzene” every Tuesday because the Rotary Club of Riga “Rīdzene” meets there. ( The ringing of noise, the intermediate shoutings, “Aye! ” ) And there, at the Rotary Club table, we come and completely public and do not reveal what is happening in meeting with many of you. Yes, Mrs. Āboltiņa has also been a guest! In my opinion, many of the Ministers of the Farmers' Union have also been in the Rotary Club for meetings and hours of negotiations. Consequently, people who go to Rotary Club or to “Rīņķenes” are not to blame for having been in the club. Second. I took part in the Zolitude tragedy committee of inquiry, and I do not want to say that it was a failure. That must have been the best commission ever in this term. But I also had a conflict of interest because I came from an emergency service. And at the sittings dealing with the issues in question, I also said: "I have a conflict of interest in this matter." I did not take part in that section of the work or in those discussions, I did not vote and I did not express my views. Hence, we should not be allowed to do so because, some time during many months of work, theoretical conflict may arise and a person may be thrown into his eyes with a stone. I call for a vote on the list. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “I have a offer to close the hotel “Rīdzene”!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U29	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U30	Colleagues! The question here is very simple: do you want to investigate what is written in those negotiations?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “) which text is currently held by Mr. Brigmann, do you not want? Do you want to find out more or don't you want to? Because we, Members, do not have such approaches... Perhaps, in a deeper examination of the negotiations, as Mr Brigmanis also always emphasises, it should be clarified whether there is something else at the bottom. And you will decide this right now because (The grass is increasing in noise.) you can this process either... Please keep quiet!... you can either make this process a meaningful process in which you find out (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) to yourself the answers to questions arising from these negotiations, or to make a farce, by electing a person who has been mentioned in the negotiations in a rather glamorous way. There is no formal, legal conflict of interest, but in society, the whole process will be made into something that cannot be trusted. There will be doubts. Today, colleagues, it is the hour of truth! Please vote and take a decision. Either that commission will be meaningful or it will be a farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U31	Name to Member Artus Neminis. ( Interface: “Well Spolitis will get back! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U32	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! Hello, new Members! Hello! Mr. Adamson, I have to agree with you. Indeed, what is the meaning of the Loskotov Commission and Latkovsky Commission? In principle, they should perform this function instead of this parliamentary committee of inquiry. That would be right, because you get salaries for it. The fact that you have decided this case for six months, Mr. Judine, is very good! That's the smallest time! The bad thing is that Mr. Neighbours cannot take part in it because I do not have my own group. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan and dep. A.Judina intersaxes.) I'm happy! I'm happy! I just can't talk to the hall, because Mrs. Murniece will give me an immediate warning.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U33	Don't talk to me! Don't talk to me!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U34	I would like to mention the fact that... Inguna Silver, it's not funny that you're on this list! It's really not funny! Also, of course, Mr. Mežecka... Mežeckis, is that your name? Right? I just don't know you. For years you've been sitting here and... You see, I think you shouldn't be there either. There's no need to be big out of the ZZS at all. Really! Don't! And... But maybe really Ernest Seyle... Maybe Mr. Balozh can recommend another Member... Is that so? Maybe Mrs. Schiff could go and... Because let's take it now, there's some media already mentioned here, and so... Let's say, I saw you at Laima Vaicule with... Where have you been? First or fifth row? But now in one of the five rows that's bought Shleser with this guy here who's been cutting cigars all the time. Then you have that five lines. Mr. Vejonis was sitting there, too. Well, you were there a few days ago! You weren't? That's right, you weren't. That is why we are actually voting separately. Personally, I am against the ZZS. Absolutely! Inguna, I'm sorry! Don't take evil, and don't take it personally, but I'll also reject your candidacy. You should bring someone else. The worst thing is the approval of this final report, Mr Judine. I can say from experience how... Let's say, Dalder was for us... I call him a "kazachok", let's say, who tried to demolish this final report and didn't want to vote for it. So we came to the assistance of the National Union, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr Chair, for confirming the final report of the Zolitude Tragic Commission. And this commission, Mr Balozy, was a very good commission, and we both know... Unlike the one in which 14 thousand euros of Iekto Spolitis simply stunned by receiving his salary. So think, Mr. Judin, of this final report, because I think Mežeckis will be lucky in his hands, perhaps with Ingun and he will say: “No! We do not accept this!” You're going to be there, how much? Only five people? Six! I really would be happy to participate if I could. Really! If I'd been allowed by the Bureau, I really... And I would very much like to ask you: do so in the Red Hall and close all those cameras in the Red Hall so that people look at them - just as it was in the Zolitude tragedy investigation commission: when there were open sittings, people looked at them. They were the most watched sittings! ( Internouncing call.) Please don't talk to me, Mr. Judin. That's why I wish this commission well. Six months... Actually, you don't have much to watch. Think about it in the final report, and let it be accepted by you! So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U35	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U36	Hello, colleagues! Mr. Neighbours! If we are already talking about the Zolitude tragedy, then be precise enough. Karlis Sergeants from ZZS also voted for the final report. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Because you weren’t in there!” ) So let us be accurate next time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We took the ZZS out!” ) What do I mean? I do not know about this conflict of interest because I do not know whether Mrs Silver knows what Shleser said about him. I really don't know. I know only that Shleser was sitting at the “Rīdzene” hotel around 2001, he had an office there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “How do you know that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) And I remember interviewing it as a “Panorama” journalist, such as Jameson, at that time... I don't know, he was a future Member, or a fearer of political power, who later was the Minister of the Interior, and who in this interview was lecturing the grey cardinal Lakuch of the National Association, who proved to be a Czech agent... It may have sounded like a sound in that issue. I am absolutely sure that at the time when Shleser was in a coalition with the New Year, there were visits to the issue by Campar and Jaunups, who provided some money, and so on. So if we wanted to find out all the truth, we could also call Shleser and ask him to tell you about everyone he's met since 2001. But what do I mean? I would like to call: let us, however, be collegial and do what we have done so far. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “How has it been so far?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U37	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U38	Hello, colleagues! The Commission has not yet started work, but we can see that someone is going open. Then imagine how productive this current parliamentary committee of inquiry will be, which has usually never been anything but just a squandering of money. I am listening to this hypocritical market, which I now hear from Unity. Colleagues, if you are really worried and care about investigating this measure, you could have done it a long time ago. You have at least two commissions at your disposal to implement it. One time there is a commission that is specifically set up on these issues - internal security, combating corruption - led by a member of your party. And the other is the National Security Commission. Two commissions are all right! You can start running and do all this. What you are more interested in and more and more confident about is not the truth, it is not the process that you are interested in: really look for and find it out, but this political fiction of each other to show your political competitors on whom you have a big tooth. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. Finally, my fellow Members, however, would advise you to think about one such thing - what is different from that of the Coalition Council when we are talking about theft of a state? Not with anything! Just with the venue. The rest is done according to the same principles. ( Interface: “The participants are the same! ” ) At first, some people figure out how things should be done by the people, and so do they. And today, this sitting will be another tangible proof, namely, how we will adopt today this important tax package, which almost no one has seen, which has just been put in front of us, but which the Coalition Council has agreed is to adopt. And everyone will press the buttons obediently. The extortion of the state, the abduction continues.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U39	I closed the debate. The debate is therefore closed. It is therefore proposed to vote for each member of the parliamentary committee of inquiry separately. One can talk about this proposal, one can talk about it, one can talk about it. So “no” has applied to speak to Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U40	Now, honourable colleagues, I will talk about two things. First of all, I will have some doubts about the procedure. Although the Legal Bureau notes that Article 133 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure states that each Member may propose that proposals be examined and put to the vote by roll call, i.e. in this case the draft decision would be put to the vote as if it were part of the vote. At the same time, however, there is the Act of Parliamentary Investigation Commissions, the second paragraph of Article 2 of which states that members of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission are appointed in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima, in the same number of Members of each parliamentary group. On the order of order of the Saeima. On standing commissions, it is said that the Saeima can set principles... and Mrs Āboltiņa knows very well that in 2011, by adopting the procedure for the formation of parliamentary commissions, it has been written: if the rules laid down in the previous paragraphs are respected in the formation of the panel, that is to say, the representation of the political groups, the vote is being held on all the nominations made by the members of the committee as a whole. That's one norm. Second rate. The other situation. The law of the parliamentary committees of inquiry provides that the members of the committees shall be appointed equally among the members of each parliamentary group. Thus, in a situation where there is no appointment, appointed by the Saeima, in equal numbers of political groups, the commission cannot start work. Then it's illegal. There must be the same number! That is the procedural part that I am calling for. In the regulatory framework, it is not written in clear form, but it should be debated and interpreted, and we could argue about legality if the proposal was voted. Second moment. The second moment is argumentation. I understand that the authors of the specific proposal would - I would like! - to exclude at least one representative of the opposition group from this parliamentary committee of inquiry, so as to enable a possible vote in the Saeima or even the final report text. In particular, they shall have a majority of the votes cast. But in this case, we are at another dead end. If the Saeima will support this proposal today and will vote for each of them and will not approve, by a majority of our group-led Members, in this committee, in theory, in accordance with the law, our group will even lose the opportunity to bring such a representative to this committee, because in any case you have the same opportunity to vote against any candidate we have put forward, if you do not like our links or whatever. That's one thing. And the other thing. No extraordinary time is foreseen for us to propose to the Saeima sitting, but the next one - in September... In order to propose a draft decision, we must collect 10 signatures. We are seven people in our group. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Well Patra, I can also sign!” ) So we could not even propose such a draft decision, and that would be totally undemocratic. I understand Mr. Viļuma says that we would already sign for you. But in this case, I say - in principle, if no candidate likes us, then in theory we cannot represent ourselves in accordance with the law at all. I therefore call for a collegial approach, because the political groups have put forward people and to support the Commission as a whole! I call for the 'no' proposal to be voted separately.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U41	Andrey Judin has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U42	Look, we're changing topiki, we're talking about different issues, but thinking is the same. We do not have sufficient evidence to condemn offenders, because those corrupts do not go to a notary to conclude their contracts. We cannot create a commission because, in principle, we have no proof that those people who are mentioned there... And then with serious suspicion... They do not recognise the conflict of interest themselves. So everything's fine. Thank you, Mr. Curra, who listed a number of articles and, in essence, questioned the possibility of making the right decision... Let's say, legally it can happen wrong... I agree with my colleagues who have said today how difficult it will be for this committee to work if we cannot, in principle, agree on the composition. I wonder that a number of people, when they see the situation, realise that the subject of the study is about conversations, the involvement of politicians in dirty works, their influence, are ready to nominate a person who is suspected of working and testing himself... No, now I understand - this is a new trend, there are people in the world who think that a person can pardon himself... Why, then, can't you either justify it? Everything is possible! Question. Colleagues, I am sorry, I will repeat Mr. Neighbours' question: do you want an investigation? You want the truth to come out, don't you need it? I don't think so. Colleagues! On the Saeima order roll. We have the right to vote separately for individual people. That is first. Secondly. Well, you shouldn't tell me that, as a result, one group will be isolated and so on. In principle, I think that the nomination of Mrs Silver - it was already, to some extent, provocation and demonstration: now, see how difficult, it is not possible... The meeting will - it will, it won't - is not bad either. The question is: do you have one person in a political group? Can't you name someone who doesn't have such suspicions? I very much hope that not all your friends are there. One person was named. Please select another one. I believe that this whole discussion - we are talking about a simple question for an hour... Well, well, if you have deep confidence, vote for no conflict of interest! Let all of this be decided by the vote! Why such opposition? I call for a separate vote on each candidate and for an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U43	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We must therefore decide on the proposal: to vote for each member of the parliamentary committee separately. Please call me! Let us vote on the proposal: vote on each member of the parliamentary committee separately! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 48, for - 3. The proposal is not supported. We must therefore vote in favour of the draft decision as a whole. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the election of the members of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the signs of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No. 16870000911! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's two, it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ilze Viņķelė.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U44	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Education Law, which establishes a system of vocational qualification levels for new teachers. I don't have information... There was a promise from Mr Platoper that the Group "From the Heart to Latvia" would withdraw its proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U45	So... No, no, no... Withdrawal of proposal 1? Not received. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U46	Hello, dear colleagues! Talking about the amendments to the Education Law and why the Heart of Latvia Group did not withdraw its proposals... Yes, we were prepared to withdraw these proposals if we were to support our proposed amendments to the Education Act in order to launch a debate in Parliament on why the social rehabilitation programme would be so important. That is why it would be very important, in our opinion, to strengthen with special educational programmes the care of children in boarding schools who, due to the fact that funding for their support has already been reduced, are in fact no longer able to receive such quality education. But the state is responsible for every child! If you want to do what has been recorded both in the Latvian National Development Plan and in the Education Development Guidelines, so that access to education is really available to everyone, we believe that this issue is important. Therefore, we will not withdraw our proposals that are contained in this draft law, because we believe that it is not a honouring of honest promises, if even we cannot support the transfer of amendments to the Commission, so that we can see that there is this legal basis and, indeed, in August, there will be such discussions, negotiations and discussion on how to best develop support for children who have these special needs, which at present cannot in any way be achieved because of their behaviour, because of the circumstances, because of the living situation, to obtain the necessary education at a general education school. To decide that funding for boarding schools from the state is only until the end of the year, which means actually to expose the unknown fate to more than 2000 children today in Latvia. Therefore, I am sorry, we will not call back our proposals, because we believe that you are not doing the right thing. I call for support to be given to the proposals of the Group from the heart for Latvia, because, once again, the question is, in our view, very important. This proposal has been developed together with internet school directors, with pedagogy specialists, assessing their experience in how to create this special programme for children. They learn first in one general education school programme, then they have special training, socialisation, and everything else that they need to be able to return to the right environment - in the children's environment, in the teenagers' environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U47	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U48	Yeah. Well, really, man and word! We promised to withdraw - we did not withdraw. But for my part, I would like to assure you that the Commission will keep its name, and if we have promised that we will debate and work on these issues in August, then we will do it. The Commission decided to rely on Mr Platoper's promise that the proposals would be withdrawn, but if they were not withdrawn, they would be considered not to be supported by the Commission. Hence, on behalf of the Commission, I call for no support to be given to 1. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia".
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 26, against - 38, refraining from - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U50	2. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U51	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 40, abstaining - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U52	3. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which intends to supplement the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers by stating that it is also the competence of the Cabinet to set the lowest monthly salary rate for the teacher. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U54	4. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported by the Commission. But I have to say that, since we have not supported the first proposals, the rest of the proposals of the "From the heart to Latvia" group would actually, in substance, not change anything even if it were supported. However, this proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U55	But these proposals are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U57	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 38, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U58	5. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 40, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U60	6. - Minister Shadursky's proposal, which is editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U62	7. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U63	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U64	Dear Members of the Committee. This issue has already been discussed and discussed in the Commission. If this law is not adopted in the version “From the heart to Latvia”, then the Ministry of Education and Science, to say the Minister, can make corrections at the end of July, in the middle of August, when everyone is on vacation, and this is our usual practice of education: to make everything work while people are away, and on 1 September everyone is placed in front of the fact that changes have been made. And so that we do not violate Section 62 of the Labour Law, where it is stipulated that at least one month in advance must be warned about changes in writing... Unfortunately, this did not give any support, and once again we allow the Ministry of Education and Science to operate in its style - non-professional and avant-tourism, and perhaps even inappropriate for a normal education system. I therefore call for support and ultimately for a specific date for all leave, for a person to know how and by whom, and for how long he will have to work at school. And let us also take our promises more seriously. The Chair of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is, in fact, not quite right about it. 16 Draft legislative proposals... was asked not to discuss them because we would come together and... What are we... Is that so? The question for me now is: what adjustments can we make when we talk at the end of August, the third week, the Minister? If the law is not open, if there is no draft law, then no corrections will be made. And you don't have to deceive the public, THE Unity, you don't have to deceive the public that you will change something! So far, you have done nothing in the field of education, even though you are saying that education is the basis for the development of the country if? You're... Yeah, I've told them five times. And so I don't have any confidence anymore in anything, to be honest. Because our agreement was that we would deal with these things at the highest level, professionally, in order to solve the issue of boarding schools. I am very sorry that the members of the committee were simply laughing at education in general. For 27 years nothing has been arranged for us, and once again we vote peacefully. Because that's obviously what the coalition needs. But I do not have faith, to be honest, to the chairman of the Commission and, forgive me, Minister, to you too. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Re, where to sit!” ) You do not keep your name, you do not keep your promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U65	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U66	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Mr Platoper, I will respect you and respect you, whatever you say from this troop. Because I appreciate your previous professional activity. Honourable Members! This proposal from the Group's Heart for Latvia suggests that the laws governing the conditions of employment of educators, in particular pay and workload, do not have the right to either the government or the Saeima to adopt during the period after 31 May, so until the beginning of next year. Let us imagine a situation where the budget forecasts have been good and we can forecast a larger budget for next year, because the economy is developing successfully. We would not have the right to raise teachers' salaries if these forecasts are made available by the government after 31 May. The other thing. The trade union, mainly the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union, rightly demands to consider the schedule of further increase of teachers' salaries in the government. If this proposal is supported, we will not be able to do so. Every moment there is talk of everyone being on vacation. Celebration myth - leave is only eight weeks for the teacher, but leave for the staff of the Ministry of Education and Science is much shorter. I understand the desire to take care of their comforts and prevent them from working from 31 May. Well, honourable colleagues, that's not really serious! And another thing about this draft law is that 1500 teachers should not lose quality bonuses in the next school year and that much more teachers could apply for new quality bonuses in the next school year. If Mr Platoper's proposal were valid, it would not be possible, as 31 May this year has passed. Dear colleagues, I highly appreciate the concern of the Group “From the Heart to Latvia” about that or other form of education, but I would recommend a little friendship with the mind and work professionally. ( Intercretion: “It was rude! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U67	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U68	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, Colleagues! We all received a letter from the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union on 13 July this year. They are calling for this amendment to be adopted in order to prevent mass violations of the law regarding the rights of the educator. LIZDA draws our attention to the fact that already on 5 October 2016 the agreement of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Latvian Municipal Union and the dispute protocol No.3 in the field of the Ministry of Education and Science (paragraph 3) has been signed, namely, that the Ministry of Education and Science should develop draft regulatory acts affecting the activities of educational institutions and the remuneration of teachers not later than 31 May of the current year. Why are we holding back? Well, I think the Ministry of Education and Science, to be honest, needs to just start thinking three months in advance as they intended, and then everything will be fine. We will be able to accept all the amendments in time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U69	Member Arvīds Platoper, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U70	If I understood correctly, then we are once again deceived by the fact that this three-level pay system... If we accept this deadline - 31 May - then will no longer be adopted if... Is that so? Because it turns out it's too late. This law, if adopted, applies to the next year, on 31 May, and it may force ISM staff to arrange all things until 31 May of the following school year. But it doesn't apply to this... Minister, do not say that this will delay some three-level pay-out system! Well, don't talk like that! Thank you for your good words, but do not deceive the public. I would like to say again: let us arrange the dates so that the Ministry of Education and Science finally starts working normally! They say that I have spoken wrong on the subject of conventions. It turns out I was right, Mr. Dzintari. I was right: it is enshrined in the law. So I said that the law we create crazy, wrong, absolutely different than it should be. And I would therefore ask you very much here to take into account that 31 May concerns the next process, the next year, where you can arrange everything.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U71	Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U72	Hello, dear colleagues! Now it seems to me a little strange from the Ministry of Education and Science - as an argument for this urgency, the fact that more than nine thousand will lose their category, their status at the end of August is mentioned. Well, did not any of the Ministry of Education and Science really know that this category was coming to an end at that time, and could not start working more quickly on this issue? Why is it necessary to rush at this point and in such an urgent order? If you don't know for yourselves, then tell counselors to tell you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U73	There were 7 on the agenda. - the proposal tabled by the Group for Latvia from the heart and Members are debating the proposals submitted. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U74	I call on the Commission not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 44, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U76	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". It seems to me that this proposal cannot be voted, because the concept of "social rehabilitation" is not enshrined in the law because proposal 1 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U77	The proposal is put to the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 43, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U78	9. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U79	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 44, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U80	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U81	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 44, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U82	11. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 46, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U84	12. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U85	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 45, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U86	13. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U88	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 45, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U90	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U91	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 45, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U92	Proposals 16, 17, 18 and 19. They are partially supported and included in 20. - in the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which shall lay down the procedure by which the evaluation of the quality of the professional activities of educators shall be organised at an educational establishment, including the duties of the head of the educational establishment in the organisation of this process. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U93	Thank you. So on proposal 16 - Members support the opinion of the Commission. About 17. - Members support the opinion of the Commission. About 18. - Members support the opinion of the Commission. About 19. - Members support the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U94	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U95	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Education...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U96	20. I have already mentioned this, it is a proposal that has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U97	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U98	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U99	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 47, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U100	22. - Minister Shadursky's proposal. Partially supported and included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U101	Members support the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U102	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also partly supported and included in 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U103	Members support the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U104	24. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U105	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U106	25. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported. It provides for the regulation of premiums for quality degrees of professional activity, as well as the possibility to take account of the additional pay period of the educator. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U108	26. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U109	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U110	27. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U111	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 48, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U112	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U114	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U115	Partially supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U116	Partially... Yes!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U117	Incorporated...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U118	... in the Commission proposal - in proposal 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U119	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U120	And 30. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which, by way of transitional provisions, regulates the future system for assessing the quality of the professional activities of teachers, also providing that these premiums are maintained for teachers who have been evaluated in the old system until the expiry of the term of the quality certificate. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U122	And 31. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau setting the date of entry into force of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U124	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U125	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U126	Dear colleagues, To your attention the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, second, final, reading. I would remind you that this draft law is necessary to ensure the development of our military infrastructure and, therefore, the construction and improvement of the Adaži landfill infrastructure. The commission responsible has received 11 proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U127	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 41, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U128	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to introduce a new term - "military court". It was not supported by the Commission, but it remained so agreed that we would return some time in the autumn and not as a matter of urgency to this issue in order to regulate the felling of trees directly in military facilities, but we would normally consider ways of really facilitating the felling of trees in military facilities. But at the moment, the proposal of the Legal Office was not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U129	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 46, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U130	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau determining the use of the term "military object" in this law. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U132	4. - a editorial proposal from the committee responsible. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U134	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible which removes the exemption previously approved in the provisions relating to the felling of trees in military facilities. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U136	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U137	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U138	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U139	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U140	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Legal Office relating to the previously rejected facilities for felling trees. So it's not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U141	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U142	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U143	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U144	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible specifying the conditions for deforestation. This is the most important amendment in this draft law. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U146	11. - the proposal of the commission responsible for the entry into force of the law. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U148	Therefore, please accept the second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final, reading of the draft law on Forest Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -67, for -no, for -16. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U150	Highly honored members of the Saeima Presidium! Dear Members, Dear Members, The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, preparing amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance” for the second reading, received 10 proposals. We invited the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance to participate in their evaluation and discussion. During the meeting of the Commission, the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia, the Free Trade Union of Latvia and other non-governmental organisations with an interest in dealing with this issue took part in the examination of the submitted proposals. The proposal tabled by Imants debtor, a Member of the Saeima, is not supported by the commission at its meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U151	Let us start a debate. ( Interface: “Do not log in! ” ) I invite Members to apply in good time for the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “This is a sign!” ) Name of Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U152	Thank you, colleagues. I'm sorry, I'm thinking about something. I thought I had applied. The nature of its proposal. In Article 5, we have defined social insurance persons, where, of course, all workers aged 15 years and above who are employed by an employer are included; persons who care for a child under one and a half years of age and receive child care or parental benefit; persons receiving unemployment benefit; persons with disabilities not registered as workers; persons receiving sickness benefits; persons receiving compensation for the care of the child to be adopted; persons whose spouse performs diplomatic and consular services abroad. My proposal is, in my view, quite obvious, that this article should also be supplemented by those who receive remuneration for the duties of guardian and those who receive remuneration for the duties of a foster family. This is a classic kind of reward, which should also be done... that those persons should also be socially insured. That is the essence of this proposal. Of course, the Commission was of the opinion, when it discussed this, that this is not exactly a matter of this tax package and that is why it is perhaps a matter of budget adoption. This could be partly accepted. That, among other things, doesn't... In the medium-term budget there is no fiscal negative impact, because this proposal provides for a procedure in the Cabinet to determine the extent to which this social contribution is to be paid and the purpose... These are the next related proposals - both proposals 1, 2 and 7. The aim is this. These persons who perform the duties of guardian or foster family duties and receive remuneration for them are often not employed or are not even able to perform other paid employment. This means that they are not charged with this duty, which they perform and for which the State pays for it, in the course of their work. Well, it's not fair! We are simply making people unreasonably reduce their pension. It would therefore only be fair for these persons to be counted among the persons for whom these social contributions are due. As my colleagues from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs have been told that this matter could be dealt with in the budget package, I hope that this will really be done and that we will realise this justice. Therefore, I withdrew my proposals 1, 2 and 7 with the hope that this norm will in any case enter into force in 2018. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “We won’t let you speak next time!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U153	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U154	Thank you, Mr. Debtor. Indeed, on behalf of the Commission, I can assure you that the Social and Labour Commission, when examining your proposals, found that it is not possible at present to make a positive decision because it is not for us to calculate precisely today. The Ministry could not by any means give them to us either. And so I thank you on behalf of the Commission. And we will keep our name, and we will certainly continue the discussion in September. Proposal 2 has therefore been withdrawn. Proposal No 3 - The Social and Labour Commission in cooperation with the ministries This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U155	Members are in favour. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Schics comes to the debate.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U156	Who's gonna be there... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U157	I think he wants the next one... About 4. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U158	He wants a discussion?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U159	About four! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “A debtor was waiting!” ) Well, on Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U160	Schitz wants a proposal 3, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U161	Proposal No 4. So, Proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U162	3 or 4? Proposal No 4...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U163	3. Members support it. I understand that Mr Šics is tabling a debate on Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U164	4. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs relating to Article 7, paragraph 9. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U165	There is an opportunity to debate again. Consequently, Mr Schics does not want to debate proposal 4. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U166	Proposal No 5 He was presented by Member Zarins. The Commission meeting is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U167	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U168	Good afternoon, colleagues! I understand you can't make a person dance. But at least to the place that he has promised others he's got to get there, that's what he's supposed to do. In this particular case, we are talking about the government's promises. If the government has already promised that the first principle of this tax reform is to reduce the tax burden on labour, transfer it to consumption taxes, then it should have done so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “That’s how it works!” ) But you are unable to do so, instead you are raising social security contributions, which, by the way, Mr Spolitis, also creates the tax burden on labour. That's for you, for the sake of education. There you go! ( Internouncing call.) So raise by one percent. What I offer, colleagues, is to help this cling to the place that he has promised, because he cannot or has lost himself and does not know how to get there. My proposal is therefore not to raise this one percent, but to create a fiscal space for these "cares" (footsteps), "cares" for healthcare in a different place. And my proposals will see how this can be done, namely... And there's one thing here - a principle thing! - what you promised the public that you would not raise labour taxes. And the other thing is a fundamental problem! - it is the fact that this one per cent does not solve problems in health care; this funding will not be sufficient. But what do you do with that? By linking health funding with social security contributions (in other words, in simple terms, labour taxes), you are opening up the Pandora box. Because what does this option mean? If we really look at it, we're not going to have enough money. The 80 million you promise that you will take additional funding for health care does not solve the big hole that is there. It's ten times bigger! The Ministry of Health itself says that it is 750 million. I assume there's a lot to be cut out there, but now there's 10, 20 percent... But it still remains hundreds of millions! The question is, where will the rest of the money come from? Because you have taken this risky step - combined health funding with labour taxes - which means that the next step will be... You will come and say, “You know, one percent is too little. Let's raise another percentage!" And it will! It'll be a real Pandora box. That is why, in my opinion, it is fundamentally wrong - it is doublely wrong! - the decision you made. A double non-professional decision, firstly by imposing this burden on labour taxation, secondly by opening this Pandora box, because it is clear that there will not be enough fiscal space here and therefore the entire social budget will be put at risk. Such a solution will also undermine the sustainability of pensions. It's absolutely false! That is why my proposal is not to do so. I come to your aid with concrete proposals on how this can be done. The next proposals will show how we deal with this. Therefore, colleagues, my proposal at the moment is: support this, proposal 5, think sustainably, think forward-looking and - above all! - Think responsibly! This is particularly true of coalition colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U169	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U170	On behalf of the Commission, honourable colleagues, I would like to say to you: if Mr. Zarins had found time and came to the committee meeting, he would certainly have listened to such a decision in both the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia and the Free Trade Union of Latvia, and understood that all three of these large cooperation organisations had a long, serious discussion both in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the Tripartite Council, even (Inter-Charter.) restoring social security contributions of 35.09 per cent, supporting. And this draft law, which is currently being presented to you by the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, makes it very clear that this one percentage point is being directed at health care, in fact only to increase the pay of medical professionals. With regard to the rest of the money that you say, it is a government question where and from what means it will be taken. The proposal has not been approved at the commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U171	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U172	Thank you, colleagues. ( Interface: “A break! ”) ) Proposal
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U173	It's time for a break. ( Milestones.) Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for notification to the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U174	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Due to the fact that we have just set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, all Members who have been elected and who have an interest in that committee, please meet at 15.35 in the Red House. Let us elect the chairman and the secretary of the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U175	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U176	Dear colleagues working in the Saeima Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please gather in the Yellow Hall for a short commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U177	Name to the Secretary of the Saeima for communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U178	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis... is, Boris Cilevičs, Alexander Jakilovs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Valdis Kalnozols... yes, Inese Laizāne, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anrijs Matīss, Roman Mežeckis, Sergey Mirskis, Vladimir Nikonovs, Jūlija Stepanenko and Dzintars Zaķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U179	Thank you. Interruption until 4 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U180	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Saeima sitting room so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U181	Dear colleagues, Proposal No 6 Submitted by Member of the Saeima Vitaly Orlov. During the discussion at the commission meeting, the proposal was partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U183	7. - The offer from the Saeima Member Imants Debtor. It's been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U184	Therefore, Proposal No 7 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U185	Proposal No 8. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has developed cooperation with the ministries. The proposal was accepted at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U187	Proposal No 9. Presented by Imants Debtor, Member of the Saeima. The proposal was partly supported at the Commission meeting and included in the 10th meeting of the Committee. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U188	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U189	Last, 10th, - The Social and Labour Commission's proposal. Proposal No 10 calls for the transitional provisions to be supplemented by paragraphs 64 and 65 in a new, updated version.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U190	Mr. Debtor, are you going to talk about Amendment 10? Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U191	Yes! Yes! I am grateful that colleagues from the Social and Labour Commission have listened to my proposal, and I hope that the alternative proposal that I have drawn up contains the substance that I have expressed in Amendment 9. Once again, I would like to emphasise this in order to make it clear the scope which will accordingly be approved, I hope, in the final version, too, as a proposal from the committee responsible. In fact, with these rates of one per cent (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) ... The introduction of one percentage point in social security contributions, by making it a health insurance, we are establishing a compulsory health insurance system. And it is clear that if this one percentage for persons working under the general tax scheme, who are automatically obliged to take part in the sickness insurance scheme by means of this contribution, then it is also necessary to determine how the range of other persons could enter the health insurance scheme. And, of course, this needs a specific law, which is already being done, and that is why it would be necessary to define in these transitional provisions when the draft law is being tabled. But, speaking about this group of people, it must be clear that it covers all Latvian citizens, all residents. It is not possible that someone stays outside this system. Once again, we are establishing a compulsory health insurance system. And so my proposal, though, was to set at least the minimum threshold for these payments that every person has to make, which is one per cent of the minimum wage. Of course, there will still be a discussion on the extent to which these contributions should be covered by a special law. I assume that the whole scope of my proposal is also in this responsible commission. I call for support for the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U192	Members support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U193	Dear colleagues, In conclusion, by presenting to you the amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance, I would like to keep a little behind what the Member, Imants Debtor, said. When we prepared these proposals, I told you at the very beginning that we were helped to prepare the bill, both the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Health and also the Ministry of Culture. In the question of what will then be agreed in the Health Care Financing Law, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission and even more The Sub-Commission on Public Health has promised to engage very seriously and help the Ministry of Health to prepare a draft law. Therefore, colleagues, not only persons who are currently paying social insurance contributions, but also those who live in Latvia and are currently either under-participating in the state social insurance system or have not been included in it at all... The Ministry of Finance will therefore also take these issues very seriously. And I believe that in the budget package we will all be able to read this bill together... and then we will also be absolutely clear about those social groups that are insured by the state, in other words, those social groups with which we also worked in the previous term in cooperation with the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. And these are both people who are currently receiving a state old-age pension, people with disabilities and so on. So, colleagues, I can assure you that the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs will continue to work on the draft laws that are entrusted to it, including amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance”. On behalf of the Commission, colleagues, please support the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance" at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U194	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 27, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U195	Hello, colleagues and colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” for the second reading. 12 proposals have been made for the second reading. I must inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Inta Dalder to withdraw his proposals. With this proposal, he withdrew his proposals for the draft law "Amendments to the Labour Law". And this is the first proposal, as well as the proposals from 6 to 12. So we are left to look at and to decide on four proposals. It should be said that all four proposals are on minimum wages and on matters relating to this calculation of remuneration. For us in the Saeima Commission on the Labour Law, we have a position that we are very, very carefully dealing with any proposals made in relation to this law, and with a full sense of responsibility we are deciding on those already discussed by the National Trilateral Cooperation Council, that is to say, employers, workers and the government. And maybe you remember that already when we talked about this draft law at first reading, I said that the amendments to the Labour Law had put forward many proposals, but, by agreeing with employers and workers on unnegotiated proposals... we did not say that in this case, in this draft law, they were left for further discussions, further discussions, more consensus... but we are looking at those whom this agreement has been reached. Since these proposals are very sensitive, very important, we believe that we should not now adopt these amendments too quickly, which concern the calculation of minimum wages and wages, and should be debated further between employers, workers and the government, and then seen in future draft laws amendments to the Labour Act. However, in any case, proposals have been made. And so you don't have to vote on the 1st proposal, which has been withdrawn, but... ( Interface: “But you can talk anyway! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U196	The proposal has been withdrawn. Two!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U197	2. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. This has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U198	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U199	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! This whole tax reform package has been brought to the Saeima, and one of the most important figures relating to tax reform is, of course, the minimum wage. So far, we have always allowed a minimum wage to be determined in principle by the Cabinet of Ministers, and now the Cabinet has offered to raise the minimum wage immediately for three years, so to say, ahead, for 50 euros. However, I would like to point out that it seems that neither the government nor the Ministry of Finance still understand what is happening in Latvia. In Latvia, as we see, the economy is developing at least at two speeds. One is what happens in Riga, Pierīga, and the other is what happens further from Riga. If you, fellow Members, want to question the fact that there is a two-speed economy in our country, I will remind you once again of the average wage in Latvia when looking at statistical regions. In the planning region of Riga last year, the average salary was 935 euros; in Latgale – 592 euros respectively. Of course, the minimum wage is less than the average salary, but yet... You understand very well: in order to earn this 50 euro extra, which will be easier for a Riga entrepreneur or entrepreneur in Zilupe, or an entrepreneur in Valka? Does the entrepreneur no longer belong to any place outside Riga? Clearly, such a rapid rise in the minimum wage drives many entrepreneurs to despair. Last time we talked about the force of all these draft laws at first reading, I told you, I reminded you that the country has three features: sovereign power, territory and man. Thus, a person, also living further from Riga, is a very important part of Latvia's state. Unfortunately, we're going so fast now, by nature... I've been counting about 13 percent... EUR 50 is 13 per cent of the previous minimum wage... The increase is so rapid in one year. At the same time, yesterday, for example, public officials indicated that they would try to reduce the number of officials by six per cent within three years. Six percent in just three years! In other words, we will be reducing the number of officials, with gentleness and slowness. All social partner organisations also point out that the country, if it already places a greater burden on people, whether they are workers or entrepreneurs, because this minimum wage will lie on their shoulders... However, it is not ready to go against it itself. Ladies and gentlemen! I call on you to support this proposal by the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which offers to raise the minimum wage wisely and to do it gradually: next year - to 400 euros, 2019 - to 415 euros, 2020... Yes, for EUR 430 in 2020. This will continue to be a very rapid rise. It will be faster than last year! Entrepreneurs will still be forced to look for solutions to either reduce the load on employees or simply release them, which they have done for a year from year... or, of course, to move to Riga. Ladies and gentlemen! I personally do not support the rise in the minimum wage - unfortunately I have to say so - because I see what is happening outside Riga. But at least I call for support to this proposal by the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which proposes to increase the minimum wage gradually.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U200	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U201	Hello, brothers and sisters! I did not want to speak, but Mr Viļuma began to talk about the minimum wage and touched on me as an entrepreneur a painful subject. Mr. Viļuma, what do I want to say to you? In Germany, the minimum wage or wage level is three times higher than with us, but prices in stores are even lower or lower. So the question is: where does the problem lie? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļuma intersenses.) My view is that if you want to say that entrepreneurs raise wages up in a slow spirit, it is not realistic. The operator is in a competitive situation. If he raise the salary, he will be out of competition. Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola is taking a step in the right direction. I would take further steps instead: this minimum wage would be increased by at least EUR 100 and raised to EUR 1000 over two or three years. Why? Because we should... First of all, if someone wants to say, "Oh, it's going to hit entrepreneurs!" Don't hit business! Why won't businessmen be shed? Because Germany does not know why businessmen were missed. And the global problem of our country, not just of business, is that we do not understand what the organisation of work is. There's a lot of money disappearing... My wife, too, when she led the restaurant, said, “Whether or not!” But when the circumstances forced, it was necessary to stand behind the counter, and everything went like... Solving this issue. At a time when a businessman in Germany is standing behind the counter and doing so, we entrepreneurs, many of us want to stand by. Secondly, by raising the minimum wage sufficiently well, we will ensure more turnover on the market. It is possible that many people will save or spend their money abroad, but very many people will spend this salary here even in Latvia, and will promote our production, so to speak. Another effect. We have been abandoned by 370 thousand people in Latvia. Where they have gone, the economy has grown. For us, the economy has stopped on the ground, it is standing on the ground. These 370 thousand are to be returned. One of these conditions is that there is a meaningful minimum wage. These people are not just losing latvistism abroad. These people here mean buying: someone will buy beer, bread, milk, meat produced here on the spot. These are people who will promote our economy, and these people need to be returned. In my opinion, raising this minimum wage is a good thing. Personally, I would build it even more to make it even bigger. I would like to emphasise once again: If we really want to take care of our land so that we do not steal it, then first we will take care of our prosperity! These oligarch negotiations, sorry, there are some political manipulations, some bullshit. Indeed, we should call up a commission to think about how we can develop our economy, create new jobs, thereby achieving higher tax revenues. Really! At the moment, I would see a sense of spending money on such a commission. Yeah, I don't understand... This commission that we approved today is, in fact, a waste of tax money in pointless cases, Mr. ( Intercretion: “You yourself voted in favour! ” ) I did not vote in favour! Yes! Thank you. Goodbye. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Do you leave?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U202	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U203	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! As you can see, there are quite different views here on the minimum wage, and it is possible that the solution is not as simple as it is now - to the quick, to the dull to set any specific rates. This is likely to vary between regions and between sectors. And it is obvious that we will have to go back to this issue. However, the Labour Law is that there is a tradition with regard to the Labour Law, which I think should also be respected, that it is being discussed in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and, as far as possible, the agreement agreed by both employers and workers. And that is the wording of the first reading, which I hope we will also support at second reading. This issue has not been discussed; it is not about form - whether it is a question of this law or something else to be dealt with in the law - nor about substance. This discussion will need to be continued, and yesterday the Social and Labour Commission agreed with both employers and workers that this discussion will continue. That is why I am calling for this issue not to be supported today, but the discussion will, of course, not end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U204	Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U205	Ladies and gentlemen! I forgot to mention last time the Association of Light Industry Enterprises which... I think you have... if not for everyone, then... At least, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has also brought its presentation... Even though they may be too dramatic about their situation - they believe that 90 percent of the companies in the sector they represent will be closed down, at least 6 500 workers will be made redundant and the state will lose at least 37 million euros in taxes. I assume that it's too crazy and that it's too thick as you say. However, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, we are raising the minimum wage so quickly, for example, in municipalities... There, at the moment, a sufficiently well-educated person receives the same EUR 450 or perhaps 460 in the performance of his duties. A collaborator who does a job which does not require any particular knowledge shall receive EUR 450. Of course, a person who lives in rural areas loses the motivation to get a higher education because then his salary would be only ten euros or maybe not at all. We hear all the time that this tax reform is progressing, that the main objective is to raise GDP by five per cent. But, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve this objective, do we really want to further encourage people to leave the regions?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And let us not forget that, of course, there are entrepreneurs in Riga who currently pay only the minimum wage, while the rest is paid in the envelope! Of course, they will pay this increase in salaries, but it will not be possible for small entrepreneurs in the countryside. I call for our proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U206	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U207	I'm just short. For my part, I will send you one article on the minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U208	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U209	Ladies and gentlemen! I too, of course, would like it better, and it would be easier, of course, to support what Mr Nanosol said. It would prove that I care for those poor people. But then what are we going to do with EUR 50? Let's raise it right away, let's set a minimum wage of EUR 1500. Yes! Please! But, you see, we must probably realize that in that case, those people who now receive 380 will receive not 1500, and not 430, as they now intend, but a large part will receive zero. We believe that entrepreneurs in Riga do not know where to put money, that they are swimming in cash. Maybe. But is it also in Rezekne, Balvos, Madona? As far as I've had to be in companies, believe me that's not the case. And if, let's say, a businessman in the Prizes or Viļaka or Rezekne now has to pay a minimum wage of not even 1500, but 430 euros, he'll probably say that he's better then he'll go to Riga and get this minimum salary, otherwise... Here too, my colleague Mr. Viļuma will say, 13 percent increase... This means that the company's revenues should also increase by 13 per cent per year. On average, of course. As we know, the Latvian National Development Plan, which also... All right, I'm not going to start with that five percent annual increase. There's no such growth! And if, even for gross domestic product, we expect an increase of five per cent that does not happen, how can we ask the entrepreneur for an increase of 13 per cent? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Exactly! That's it!” ) Everyone essentially. That's how, as I said, we are criticising one another populism. In my opinion, the minimum wage is indeed the purest populism. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Exactly!” ) And so raising the minimum wage, I also agree with my colleague Juris Viļums... You see, it's a question at all that probably... yeah, those people who get low wages must think, but rather than raising a minimum wage, which will mean that they're not going to have any income at all. And that's why this is the way to deal with this problem... Perhaps it is not popular to talk about it, but from an economic point of view the minimum wage is actually the price floor. And if you set the price floor, it will lead to a surplus in the market. Okay, thank you, my speaking time is over. So that I call for support for the proposal of the Association of the Regions of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U210	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U211	I call for support for the proposal of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, because it was clear from these speeches that the issue was not prepared at this point. We are not ready to do so - to raise the minimum wage. Perhaps this could be a differentiation - there is one minimum wage in Riga and there is another in the regions, which has also taken place in these discussions from the Employers' Confederation of Latvia. Of course, the minimum wage must be raised, but at this point and with this tax package, we are simply not ready for it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U212	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U213	On behalf of the Commission, I can remind and say once again that 2, 3 and 4 are proposals from the Group of the Alliance of the Regions of Latvia, which are closely linked to each other and affect Article 61 on Minimum Wage, and cannot be rejected simply without discussion and without discussion. It is clear that they must be debated, but discussed with employers and workers and, of course, with representatives of the government. This very important issue for the people of our country has not been discussed in such a tripartite cooperation council and there has not been enough serious discussion in the parliamentary commissions. Therefore, our Commission does not currently support these proposals and is therefore asking for an appropriate vote by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U214	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 40, abstaining - 12. The proposal is not supported. ( From the fraction below: “Watch! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U215	3. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U216	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U217	4. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U218	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 30, against - 41, refraining - 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U219	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Mr. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U220	Members shall not object. The other proposals have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U221	Thank you. So the other proposals have been withdrawn. Please vote in favour of this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U222	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For--77, against--no-- - 7, refrains - none. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Support for taxpayers for the cancellation of late payment and penalty”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U223	Colleagues! See the draft law on aid to taxpayers for the cancellation of late payment and penalty. There are three proposals supported by the Legal Bureau, but before we look at them, I would like to inform you that a whole line of the debtor's proposal was also examined in the Commission, with the idea of making late payments... the elimination of the fine for real estate tax, too. The Minister of Finance informs that this issue has been addressed in the government, but the Latvian Municipal Union has not received very strong support for this proposal. However, we agreed: if necessary, this issue will be reinstated and addressed in the budget package. We will therefore begin to look at three proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U225	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U227	And 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U229	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U230	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on aid to taxpayers for the recovery of late payment and penalty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U231	Colleagues! We had extensive discussions about this draft law - to say so - throughout the whole area - and in the three main blocks - on the increase in excise duty on alcohol, tobacco and also on fuel - were found, in our opinion, the most optimal solutions, which perhaps did not satisfy everyone, but were at least generally acceptable. And in the end, many proposals were withdrawn. I also withdrew my proposals, and Mr Dalder also withdrew his proposals, and Mr Dalder withdrew proposal 4, from the 30 proposals in the table, and the Minister for Finance withdrew proposals 16, 18 and 21. So, in fact, we have 25 proposals that will be looked at. 1. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U232	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Clementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 50, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U233	2. - also the proposal from Member Andrejs Klementyev. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U234	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Clementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 51, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U235	3. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U236	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Clementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 31, against - 52, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U237	5. is a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U238	So four has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U239	Yeah, I didn't say that...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U240	5. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U241	5. - the proposal prepared by the responsible commission for alcoholic beverages, the determination of the beer rate, which is mentioned here as the 2020 rate, and the transitional provisions accordingly refer to the rates that will enter into force on 1 March 2018 and 1 March 2019. I would emphasise once again: in the Commission, this was the result of a joint agreement, because this rate was as high as 11.1 in one proposal, in another it was 10, and we came to the fact that next year the rate is 6.8 and is gradually being increased to 8.1 by 2020. And in order to make it clear to colleagues, the assessments were made on the basis of the proportion of the strong beer against beer in Europe on average and the rates currently in the neighbouring countries. So the current rate for beer in Lithuania is 7.11. We agreed on a rate of 6.8, which is therefore lower than in Lithuania. In Estonia, the rate for beer is 15,52. Therefore, this rate was also found to be proportionate. But, as I said, the proposals that proposed to increase the rate even more quickly, which also have their own basis, were not supported. This is a compromise decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U242	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U243	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! I had the pleasure and the honour to engage in the work of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, and it was really interesting to look at and participate in the law review and the creation of new proposals. Well, for example, this tax rise to 6... no, forgive me, to the number 8.1 was selected... How was this number 8,1 chosen? The lowest rate was offered at 6.8, the highest one at 11.1, as Mr. Debtor said... And then there started to be no more trades: well, how do we put it? I'm sorry, but that number was taken from the finger. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Where does the finger come from?” ) That was the feeling that that evening Imants Debtor's calculator became all-powerful: as it will say, it will be. Of course, both benefits and losses were calculated, but these benefits and losses were obviously calculated according to one variable principle: we add one figure and see how they drive our taxes into our budget from their point of view! Other characteristics that can either increase or significantly reduce the overall weight of these taxes are not considered. Therefore, on behalf of both the Group of the Regions of Latvia and on behalf of the Group of the Regions of Latvia, I call for no support for this increase in taxes, which is even greater! - than what you supported at first reading. Once again, it is a very rapid rise in the tax, although it is beer. On the one hand, I agree that beer or fuel or what it would be... but you can't just say this: 8.1... Everyone agree? All right, 8.1. Let us not support this light tax reform further, without proper calculations and without proper justification.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U244	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U245	Yes! To be absolutely clear about how this figure was made. The increase in the rate in 2018 was initially assessed. The proposed versions, which were received from the Ministry of Finance, from the Cabinet of Ministers, were 6.1 and the following year - 6.8. When we agreed on the proportion of strong drinks - primarily on the rate of strong drinks, which was 1670 - then we had to agree on the rate of beer in 2018. In order for this ratio to be somewhat proportional - 1:2,5 -, there was this rate - 6.8. Based on the 1:2.5 ratio, the next year's rate was calculated. So the spirit drink rate was taken and, given my already legendary calculator, because it is easier to count than in my head, this proportion was also attributed to beer. In this way both the 2019 rate and this 8.1, which is the 2020 rate, came out of 6.8, which will be in 2018. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this thought-out compromise decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U246	Thank you. Please call me! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “It’s all! This is what the government is going down!” ) To be put to the vote on 5. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U247	7, Colleagues, is the proposal of Member Roman Money. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U248	Proposal withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U249	I'm sorry! 6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U250	Therefore, Proposal No 6 has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U251	Yes! And seven. - That's Mr. Roman Moneys's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U252	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U253	8 / 8 - Mr. Clementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U254	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U255	9. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U256	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U257	Dear colleagues, This proposal to raise excise duty on petrol, diesel and gas is a typical proof of the way in which tax reform is implemented: one hand shows beautifully that taxation is being reduced (and that is very wonderfully to introduce this progressivity into the personal income tax), while the other hand is taking these fiscal compensatory measures straight away into the Excel tables. And if you calculate the extent to which excise duties are increased, then you will see that this actually means an increase in expenditure, logically, for all households, it means costing for absolutely all goods and services. What are the arguments put forward by public bodies, including carriers of passengers, transit organisations involved in the carriage of goods? What's going to happen? One part of the fuel will be filled not in Latvia, but in the neighbouring countries, it will only reduce consumption here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “There is more!” ) What will happen to inflation? This means that in any case, the cost of living will also increase. What will happen to the cost of passenger transport? This means that even more will have to be compensated by the same public budget for these passenger services, which are also organised in part free of charge. There is only one answer to all of these questions asked by the business environment: "We cannot accept these proposals because we are not allowed by the fiscal framework because it will have negative fiscal consequences!" It is not a responsible tax policy. I therefore call for a careful assessment, a look at where these proposals are going once again, and for support to the proposal of the Group from the Heart for Latvia not to raise excise duties on petrol and diesel, because we believe that only increasing turnover can lead to an even greater fiscal effect than imposing disproportionate taxes that only reduce consumption, and the expected fiscal effect will in fact not be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U258	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U259	Yes! On behalf of the Commission, I call, of course, for this proposal to be supported. But before I go, I'll tell you how it was made. So, in order to slightly reduce the increase that will be made for diesel, because it is entrepreneurs and also public transport that are more used to carry out their economic activity, and which can also affect the rise in commodity prices, we were looking at how to make it fiscally neutral in order to channel a small reduction in this share of the increase to diesel and, accordingly, compensate for it by an increase in petrol and gas. The result was that we reduced the rate by 0.7 cents for diesel and by the same rate for petrol, while we increased the rate by 0.9 cents for gas. Thus, we achieved this fiscal neutrality. This is also reflected in this proposal. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Violence: “Proposal 9!” ; dep. G.Kūris: “Support!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U260	The Commission has not supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U261	I'm sorry. 9. - not to support. Support 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U262	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 51, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U263	About 10. - I have already made the proposal of the committee responsible in conjunction with the proposal tabled by the Group from the heart to Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U264	The Members therefore want to vote on the 10th proposal. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 50, it's 30, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U265	12. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U266	11. - Mr Klementyev's proposal is not supported by the Commission. Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Clementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 50, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U267	12. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U268	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Clementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 52, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U269	13. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U270	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U271	Dear colleagues, A number of leaders of cultural institutions also approached us. They were particularly concerned about the information that goes into the public space, namely, the view that Latvia has been refinanced in the field of culture. And on these issues, we also talked about how to make the good work of the State Culture Capital Fund predictable and sustainable, because, of course, there is no incentive for people to drink more alcohol, play gambling or smoke tobacco. But the cultural environment is perhaps one that can distract them from all kinds of harmful habits and desires, and so on. The management of the State Culture Capital Fund has already developed a programme, a vision, a strategy for how the Fund could develop and offers several options for funding to ensure this sustainability, stability and predictability in the field of cultural financing, and they discussed these ideas with us. They themselves said it was to be predictable, also when planning the state budget. Therefore, we submitted proposals for amendments to this Law, which envisages changing the procedure for financing the State Culture Capital Fund from 2020 onwards, gradually increasing the part that is transferred from the excise duty on alcohol to the state budget. Thus, the percentage transferred from this inclusion to cultural capital gradually increased from 1.5 to 3 percent, which will only be achieved in 2023. This is our proposal, which is also reflected in the transitional provisions. And we think... I therefore stress once again: if there were the right policies for drawing up the budget, if the content of the policy is understandable and visible, there would certainly not be a need for some specific parts of the tax to be earmarked for certain policies. Unfortunately, practice in Latvia has developed that, with such a budgeting system and understanding, no policy can be planned in the long term. And in order to break this practice and to have areas that create, in our opinion, a very important environment in Latvia - an environment in which there is harmony, an environment in which there is unity, an environment in which the right values are created... And what even more creates the right values as cultural traditions, support for those people who work with creativity, creativity, who, of course, also need state support? Because there is a small part of the culture that can simply be financed under market conditions. But for our own, as our country's culture, for preserving our traditions, for building our special talents, this cultural environment is important. And the work that the State Culture Capital Fund is doing, once again, is very important. I therefore call for support to be given to the proposal of the Group's Heart for Latvia that a stable funding environment is being created for the preservation and development of our cultural environment, that is, stable funding for projects under the State Culture Capital Fund.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U272	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U273	Colleagues! Three things. First. Most of the amendments to the excise duty are not economically motivated and in principle the main objective is to close the gap created by amendments to other taxes. The second point is that it would be very reasonable to base its uplift on the specific application. Part of the increase in excise duty on fuel would be directed towards road repair or road construction. The third moment, speaking about the State Culture Capital Fund. As we love to use the experience of our neighbours, we should bear in mind that in the same way a cultural capital fund is being formed in Estonia, which by its size is several times larger than in Latvia, because it is a permanent source of existence, and in that case the increase in excise duty is very meaningful, very important and understandable for the users. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U274	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U275	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Honourable Members! In fact, the Ministry of Culture has been taking this idea forward and maintaining it for a long time, already in the run-up to several governments. Unfortunately, their result has not been achieved, and it is probably because in a similar way... there are a number of other activities that would actually qualify for an even higher amount of the mark-up tax, and this has probably prevented the Ministry of Finance from supporting it all the time. Currently, a conceptual report on the development of the State Culture Capital Fund has been prepared, in which one of the directions is to attract the State Culture Capital Fund to certain types of tax revenue. Thank you, therefore, to those Members who have also supported it here. I think it is probably time for an information report, or conceptual report, to be dealt with by the government, and the government would then adopt such or another solution. And this would be the solution that would certainly be the most acceptable option for cultural workers. But in any case, the volume of the State Culture Capital Fund is indeed smaller in Latvia than in neighbouring countries, and therefore, the stable growth and stability of this Fund in the future should definitely be thought of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U276	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U277	We have also discussed this in the Commission, which is essentially in favour of this approach. As the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Culture has said, it is planned to introduce such a system by setting out the proportion of this part of money that would be allocated to a specific purpose... This task was also given. I hope that, until the budget package is adopted, we can move on this path. At the moment, however, I call for this proposal not to be supported on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U278	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 31, against - 43, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U279	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U281	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U283	16. - cancelled. 17. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U285	18. - cancelled. 19. - a proposal drawn up by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U287	Proposal 20 - withdrawn. Proposal No 21 - withdrawn. 22. - Andrey Klementyev's proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U288	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - Member Clementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U289	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U290	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, against - 49, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U291	24. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U292	Members support... ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 52, it's against - 32, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U293	25. - the proposal drawn up by Member Andreja Klementyeva. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U294	Not put to the vote... Consequently, this proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U295	26. There is also a proposal from Member Andrejs Klementyev. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U296	The proposal is not put to the vote, but a debate on it is possible. Let us start a debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Lokutov has taken part in the debate.) Name... Thus, Member Loskutow does not want to debate proposal 26. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Klementjev: “Breakout! Alexei, please don't go!' ) The proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U297	27. - a proposal from the Group "The Heart of Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U298	This proposal, too, cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U299	28. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U300	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U301	Colleagues! Gist of the proposal When discussing this tax reform... In order for us to be able to say that it is sustainable and that it should not be returned in a short time and all the laws should be amended again, this excise duty should be introduced... This draft law also includes road financing. Thus, we are in a very dramatic situation with roads, and there are only two choices: either we allow the roads to collapse or we will need to change things again after a while. To understand what this is about, I'll show you a couple of slides. This first slide shows how much each Baltic country is doing. The first pillar - it is Latvia, there are two pillars next to... One shows how much from the budget and one from the European funds. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “Cameras show up!” ) You see that we are simply leaders from the budget, the least... the worst (the leaders in the transferred sense). We're almost all... half of all is made up of the European Structural Funds, so this money. Why is it so urgent to talk about all this now? Because... You see how little Latvia spends money on the roads. Here's another slide you see. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “I don’t see!” ) The green graph shows how much the road users pay, how many of these amounts, payments, they go up here... How much money you see, you can see here. We can see this huge difference. My proposal is to reduce this gap in some way, because it is not, in principle, socially just or logical. The problem is that the less money we spend on the roads, the more we will need it in a direct and transferable sense. That is, if roads collapse, then three times more money is needed to make the same return. And we continue this absurdity. To understand what this hole is, here is another slide you can see. Here you can see the amount it needs... the green graph - the amount needed for roads and, at the bottom - these bars - how much we actually do. These pillars consist of two parts: one is budget funding, the other is the European Structural Funds. And the problem we are seeing is that the Structural Funds will come to an end and the money will become even less. And if we don't now put money on the road in this tax reform... Minister, I know you've collected... I can even tell you what you're going to say. You will immediately tell me that the excess excise duty will leave the roads and so on. It's a cape! Because what's happening at the moment... You saw this slide... Almost half... To understand these figures, we need some 720 million roads, but we're giving about... 290 million is committed this year. Of these, 128 million are the European Structural Funds. The Structural Funds will no longer exist. So the hole, which we already have about 300 million, will be another 100, 128 million. And that should be covered in some way. Otherwise, as I said, there is this completely stupid, stupid situation that we will actually be forced to pay for it all three times, five times more, as if saving money on the roads. This is a completely absurd system! It's short-term thinking. In fact, it is fair to say to the public that, at present, the main compensation mechanism for this tax reform is two things: it is medical care - it is still a huge hole, so people will suffer and die in the queues, they will not expect proper medical care, and the doctors will continue to work as slaves on the edges, and these are the routes that will continue to attack, and there is no money to fix them and there will not be any money, nor is there any money in this tax reform. And that is why, my proposal, colleagues, is at the heart of this: to foresee that we are building a road fund and that specific interest in excise revenue goes to this road fund to correct this catastrophic situation. Otherwise, we have two options: either Latvia will become a non-road power, or already in the autumn, or when we suddenly come to the idea that something needs to be done with roads, everything will have to be changed again. Consequently, tax reform will not achieve another objective of principle that has been declared - this sustainable development, when an economic operator can rely on the tax environment. Unfortunately, this will not happen unless the matter is resolved! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U302	Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U303	Colleagues! I think all members of the government also understand how much road financing is needed, because for several years there has been a lack of road funding, and this is creating more demand at the moment than the public budget can immediately afford. It must be acknowledged that at present, in 2017, we are financing the majority not from the European Union funds, but still from the budget: around EUR 300 million is being used to sort the roads out of the national budget, 75 from the European Union. We also understand that it is more motivation to pay taxes if we see exactly what they are used for. And so, despite the fact that for many years the Ministry of Finance has not liked the principle of special budgets or the formation of special funds, this idea seems to me personally to be sympathetic. However, with this specific proposal, we cannot resolve all the things that would be needed, because this specific proposal provides that 400 million of excise income should be directed towards roads. This means, in practice, that these 400 million would now be redeployed from other sectors - from health, education and other sectors. What we have done is that we already have a regulation whereby the surplus of excise revenue for the previous year is transferred to the next year's budget to sort out the roads. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “How much will it be? It's a cape!” ) The last year’s surplus on excise revenue was 25 million. This means that next year there will be at least 25 million more funding to sort out the routes. It is part of the principle of the road fund, which we are currently implementing as far as possible, and I think we will do it correctly and in the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U304	The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U305	Mr. Zarins, at times listening to you and this time in particular, I would like to ask you: what have you been a teacher in demagogy? Not to go to him for courses, but to definitely not to come to him. You have said twice here that there will be no structural funds from 2020. Who told you that? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis!” ) Perhaps your colleague Ždanoka? Your Ždanook and Mamykin in the European Parliament will block such decisions, will they? Discussions are currently under way on what these Structural Funds will be and how far they will be in the next programming period. This is the subject of a debate, but you are saying twice in a minute here that you will not be. Who, will the Kremlin - your friendship partner - object to it? Let them deal with their economy there! We will deal with these Structural Funds, because decisions in the European Union are taken by all the Member States of the European Union. The Minister has already said about the principle as such, but I really call for the right arguments to be used in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U306	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U307	Dear colleagues! This proposal, tabled by Member Zarins, is an absolutely logical proposal. I have already spoken about this today, and the Minister supported the idea that really taxpayers should know where they go and how they are spent. I'll say more. Mr Zariņš' proposal is not inscribed in the law. This provides for transitional provisions. It will be viewed further and further by the Cabinet of Ministers, including Parliament, which often amends the rules adopted in the previous sitting or some of the previous sittings. Third. Why is it very important, in my view, to support this point in the transitional provisions as well. For, to be honest, today, there have even been a number of thoughts that, here, we should continue to discuss minimum wages, other things... If it were recorded in the transitional provisions of a particular draft law, then there would be no generalist discussion about it - there will or will not be planning the next year's budget, but it would be binding on both the Cabinet of Ministers and on us. I call for support for Member Zarina's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U308	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U309	As a Member of the SAIC, I am accustomed that when people have no arguments or no sense of the subject they should talk about, Putin and the Kremlin are called. All this is already so fucking and deplorable that I even have a miracle that you have not yet become tired of it. If we are talking about concrete facts, then these facts, all of which I have called, have been given by the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis. And, Mr. Debtor, I would advise you not to talk about things from which you don't understand anything. Perhaps you understand something from the alcohol, you understand how those alcohol producers will be pushing those things around the excise duty, but unfortunately you do not know much about this fuel case. Don't know about the roads either. We are talking about those European Structural Funds that have been directed towards roads and that will already be learned. It just won't happen anymore. They're done. If you don't know, contact road builders. I'm in contact with them. They first told the problem. Then I approached the Minister of Transport. Here from the platform, I informed you that I had asked him these questions. And it was the minister who gave me these figures and presented the reality. So if you want to learn something about this, then maybe you should turn to your colleague's Minister for Transport, and he could teach you something about all these things. But what I want to say and show with my proposal... I want to show you that if you want to talk about sustainable tax reform, then this is the thing that needs to be resolved. If you do not solve this, this tax reform is not sustainable. This hole is huge and it will be the one in which this tax reform will enter. One of the holes in which it will disappear. Unfortunately, if you don't fix it, then honestly... At least partly, the Minister for Finance has said this honestly: that this reform is not sustainable and will not solve the challenges that are important for society. This means that we will soon start again. It'll just be broken, we'll sit on the seashore again and think about what to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U310	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U311	On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U312	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 49, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U313	29 and 30 are the proposals of Member Morozov. Although they were not supported by the Commission, they were, by nature, accepted, if they could be said, and we decided that we would appeal to the Ministry of Finance and the government to draw up a package of such laws that would really lay down stricter regulations, sanctions for offences relating to the illicit alcohol circulation, cases of smuggling, because the current system, which actually also lays down administrative responsibility for repeated infringements, does not allow the full or full fight against this plague. That this letter will come on the basis of these proposals, and Mr Morozov is also invited to make his proposals so that we turn to the Cabinet immediately. Since we believe that these proposals should not be incorporated into this law in this way, but support them in their substance, on behalf of the Commission, both 29 and 30. - I call you not to support or abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U314	Members wish to vote on the 29th proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 45, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U315	30. - Member Morozov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U316	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 40, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U317	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U318	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 54, it's against - 31, it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gambling Tax and Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U319	Colleagues! We are working on draft law No 976/Lp12. In the second reading, the Commission has received nine proposals. 1. - the proposal of the "From the heart to Latvia" group, which has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U320	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U321	Dear colleagues, If you read the contents of the first proposal and the next one, supported by the Commission, you would see that they are almost, almost identical. The difference is only that, in the proposal of the Member Debtor, gambling equipment is deciphered, named in concrete terms, but in fact it is one and the same thing. And as well as other business representatives who wanted to express their views and attitudes to this tax package, representatives of the gambling and slot association also wanted to meet us. And, as you know, they had addressed a letter to all the political groups. Personally, I am definitely not such a business supporter or representative, but what I certainly stand for and about which the "From the heart" group for Latvia has come up with this proposal - that the business environment must be fair and with absolutely equal treatment for all businessmen. And in Latvia, this game business organisation has a part of the types of gambling or opportunities to engage in this business without paying taxes. Taking into account international assessments, it should be said that in Latvia just half of the gambling environment is, you can say, with the possibility of avoiding taxes and not paying them. And in response to the recommendation and the assessment of the association, this proposal was advanced. They were also the ones who led this proposal with a request to tax also those who organise the possibility to play games in an electronic environment with so-called established casino studios, where customers are attracted at a distance. So in Latvia this business has developed well, because the organisers of this business employ a relatively large number of people here, paying wonderfully good also labour taxes, but remains the part of the business that affects the gambling organization and which is not taxed. Therefore, I also call for support to be given to the proposal of the Group from the Heart for Latvia, because with this proposal we are also subject to the payment of a gambling tax on this part of the business that is organised online. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U322	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U323	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I should honestly admit that Mrs Silver is indeed absolutely right, because the proposal that has been supported is, by its very nature, identical to that tabled by Mrs Silver. Consequently, it would be correct to say that this has been partly supported. Maybe it wasn't formulated like that, but... So, Proposal No 2...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U324	So, Proposal No 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U325	1. I am still calling for no support on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U326	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 27, against - 38, refraining from - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U327	2. is the proposal of the debtor of a Member. As Mrs Silver has already said, this is in fact the same thing. It is stipulated that those capital companies that provide video and online gambling services are also subject to the tax, which is set out below in proposal 4. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U329	3. is a proposal from the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U330	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U331	So I'm going on with the story of meeting with representatives of the gambling association. They informed us about the business environment or the cooperation environment they had with the government. At the time, with the adoption of the plan to combat the shadow economy, there was agreement with the sector (and the industry itself signed and supported it) that a so-called single system for the control and monitoring of slot machines was in place. This means that all these machines are locked together in a single system and it is possible to control absolutely all the activities that take place in these machines. There has been a gentlemen's agreement about which they informed us and which meant that they would therefore make these essential investments in order to make business more transparent and absolutely legal, and manageable, but at the same time the government is following the rules, the procedure for raising gambling taxes. Unfortunately, with this tax package, this gentlemen's agreement between business, business and government has been broken down, so the promise from the government is not being fulfilled. We believe that any business should be treated in a collegial manner and that the agreement should be enforced. Therefore, our proposal is to maintain the agreement that existed between business and government when an agreement was reached on the introduction of the single accounting system. Since the introduction of the system has started this year, because it was only at the end of last year that the Cabinet of Ministers adopted rules on how such a system should be developed, I call for support for our group's proposal, which simply stands for a fair business environment, for fair cooperation between business and government.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U332	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U333	Having assessed all aspects, including financial indicators and the growth rates of the sector, we decided: to support the proposal accepted by the government and not to support the proposal from the heart for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U334	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U335	4. - the proposal put forward by the Member Debtor relating to 2, supported, and states that both card and dice games and roulette (cyllic games) tables used for online gambling video with third parties shall be subject to a tax equivalent to 50 per cent of the tax on gaming tables for tiles and casinos. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U337	5. - Ivars Freeer's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U338	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal put forward by Member Freeer! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 27, against - 47, refraining from - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U339	6. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U340	Members shall not request a vote. Neither is the proposal put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U341	7. - Ivars Freeer's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U342	Members shall not ask for a vote. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U343	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U344	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 47, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U345	9. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". There is no support in the Commission. ( The utterances are: “We must vote! ”) ; “No vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U346	There is no vote now.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U347	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U348	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Fees and Tax” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 22, for - 2. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U349	Dear President, Honourable Members! 19 proposals have been submitted for the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax. 1. - Member Zarina's proposal to raise the standard tax rate to 22 per cent. The Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U350	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U351	Colleagues! This proposal was in the context of where money could be found for healthcare. Instead of raising labour taxes, it would have been more logical to raise VAT. Why? Let me explain. Firstly, if we compare these two options now, as if the sums of money were similar, the money from VAT may even get more, but that's the case: if we raise labour taxes, then we only impose this gravity on our own shoulders, on the shoulders of our producers. On the other hand, if we do so, so to say, through VAT, VAT is levied on all - both the products that we have produced ourselves and those imported, which account for a very large part, about 40 per cent, and not on exports. This means that in this way we do not destroy our export ability. But now this tax reform is being made in an absurd way: it is being made that it is our producers who are now, it is our exporters who will get it all to draw! And what happens next? If we base our healthcare on these social security contributions, then they will only be paid by those who legally pay taxes. On the other hand, those who receive envelope wages will not pay it all! If this were done, so to say, through VAT, even the person who received the envelope salary would pay this VAT when he went to buy these goods, and that money would come in and be for health care. Another argument. Unfortunately, I have not heard the arguments that led to the choice of such an absurd solution as the current one - that we will make all of this through social security contributions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “No more!” ) The only thing I can figure out for myself is what I really should take care of, but what was, once again, easy to deal with... The difference between social security contributions when rising and VAT is the same: VAT is also paid by those who do not have to pay social security contributions, i.e. those who live on social benefits. But it will also solve in elementary terms... It has a fiscal space, and we are addressing it by compensating for these benefits, which is a relatively small part, because the main VAT payers would be those with the highest consumption in proportion to their wealth. Yes, there is another nuance: those richer people already do not pay social security contributions from their income. They receive dividends. And then go and spend, buy something expensive and elegant here. And that would be the way we would force them to pay for healthcare so that this money would come to them through this increased VAT, which they will not do now, with your solution, by putting it in social security contributions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Mr Zariņš, don’t lie!” ) It is absolutely simple to... I have not heard any arguments as to why you were unable to do so. An elemental, understandable thing. Dear Coalition! You can do nothing normal. That is why I had this proposal. But since this solution has already been adopted, that it will nevertheless be social security contributions, then my proposal no longer makes any sense. I withdrew it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U352	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U353	The Commission has not supported the proposal put forward by the heart group for Latvia on a reduced tax rate of five per cent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U354	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U355	Dear colleagues, The European Union legislation also allows for the introduction of two reduced rates of tax on value added tax. Currently, Latvia uses one - 12 percent. Our proposal is to introduce a second, five percent reduced rate of value added tax. And our next proposals are how to apply this rate to basic foodstuffs, that is milk, vegetables and cereals. Why would this be important to us? This is important both for our farmers and for vegetable growers, including those who find it difficult to compete with products that are relatively cheaper and come from countries such as Poland, the Netherlands and others, and in view of their social situation in Latvia - a large population with very low incomes. While tax progress is being introduced in income taxes, given the basket of people's consumption, of course, it is the value added tax on food that is a great burden, because it is the part of food that plays an important role in their consumption. Since it is also a proposal on how to reduce inequalities. It can be said that direct benefits and direct support for people mean more, but we feel that any help in which a person is a petitioner is painful, humiliating. It is better to create an environment in which a person does not have to become a petitioner that depends on the generosity and favour of others. I call for support to be given to the proposal of the Group from the heart to Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U356	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U357	The Commission does not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U358	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 53, for - 2. The proposal is not supported. Honourable Members! Before considering the next proposals, MEPs Raivis Dzintars, Augusts Brigmanis, Igors Pimenovs, Solvita Āboltiņa and Juris Viļums propose that the extraordinary session of 27 July be held by 18.00 and that the adjournment be suspended until 10 a.m. on 28 July this year. Do Members object to the parliamentary session being held until 6 p.m.? Do Members object to the parliamentary session being held until 6 p.m.? There is no objection by Members. So let's keep the Saeima sitting until 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U359	The proposal was tabled by Mr Zarins, Member, suggesting that the title of Rule 42 be changed. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U360	The Commission has not supported it, and Members share the Commission's view. Mr Zarins, please apply in good time for the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U361	Colleagues! The nature of the proposals 3 and 4 is very simple. My proposal is to introduce two reduced VAT rates. As you know (if you do not know, I will tell you), the European directives allow for the introduction of two reduced VAT rates per Member State. We currently have one reduced VAT rate. I propose the introduction of another reduced rate. And in order not to be a mile further in the law, this is a purely editorial correction that we are talking about in this case about the 12 percent rate, which is also the draft law. It is simply clarified. So here are just editorial corrections.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U362	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U363	4. - Member Zarins's proposal for a tax reduction - 12 per cent. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U364	The Commission does not support, and Members share the Commission's view. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Well, talk about this too!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U365	5. - Member Zarin's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U366	Members agree and do not object...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U367	6. - The Latvian...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U368	The debate started on the fifth proposal. However, Member Zarins has taken up the debate on the next proposal. As regards proposal 5, Members therefore agree with the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U369	6. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia on organic farming. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U370	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U371	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Our proposal also provides for a reduced rate of tax to be applied to organic agricultural production. After all, we know that famous saying: “You are what you eat!” We would therefore promote the use of organic agricultural production, and we hope that this could support these entrepreneurs, these farmers, who produce it. At the meeting of the Commission, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture stated, however, that there is already enough support at present. He promised to send me more information. Thank you, sent me, looked at it. Don't convince me. There was a rather long presentation (if I don't lie, with eleven or even 20 slides), but I didn't really find support tools for organic producers. Ladies and gentlemen! I call for support for this proposal because, in the end, if we promote the use of organic farming products, perhaps we will have less expenditure on health care. And so we will also achieve one of the basic objectives of this tax reform, the basic tasks of improving competitiveness. That is, we would improve the competitiveness of our organic producers. And finally. I am pleased to remind you that Latvia is one of the greenest countries in the world. By supporting this proposal, we will indeed also take some concrete steps so that Latvia is indeed green, not only in words, but also in actions. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U372	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U373	On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U374	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 41, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U375	The 7th proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia" is on a reduced rate of taxation for catering services. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U376	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U377	I will start by saying that probably some of you had the opportunity to get acquainted with a letter (and I suppose a lot of things do not pay attention) that was addressed to the Saeima from a very large number of catering companies, i.e. the owners of restaurants and cafes, and in which they talked about their desire to actually operate in a competitive environment - an environment where taxation can be fairly paid. I think you too are probably watching a situation where a restaurant opens and closes in a few months, then opens in a different place again because you have left unpaid value added tax payments. And why does that happen? Because the value added tax for this business environment, as it is at present, is economically (also, in my opinion) unjustified. If we see how the cost of food directly creates, then the labour costs - wages and labour taxes - make up a very large part of it. Moreover, value added tax of 21 per cent is still to be paid, which, of course, makes this business service very expensive. Latvia took a very correct step in 2010-2012, when the reduced rate of value added tax was introduced for hotel services and accommodation services. Of course, including the extent to which catering takes place together with the hotel service is this 12 percent rate. But a very important part of the business in Latvia is located in restaurants, cafes, and it is definitely famous for its quality, culture and important for tourism development and opportunity that happens in Latvia. We also took note of a study sent to us by the representatives of this association. There is a European HOTREC organisation that can be called a roof organisation for all associations of hotels, restaurants, cafes and similar institutions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Brigman, sit down! I don’t see silver!” ) And this study shows that in a number of countries (e.g. Sweden, France or Belgium) value added tax on catering services has been reduced. In Sweden, it has been 25 percent and it has been reduced by 12 percent, while in France and Belgium the reduction in value added tax has led to an increase in the number of employees and, at the same time, a significant reduction in the number of bankruptcies (e.g. 17 percent in France following a reduction in value added tax). What I think is worth emphasising is that this reduced value added tax on catering from the 28 countries of the European Union exists in 17 countries of the European Union. I call on you to seriously deal with the catering business. If we are in favour of a fair, competitive and transparent business environment... By imposing disproportionate taxes, we will no longer have more money. But by creating an environment in which business is able to tax, the turnover will also show quite other figures and other fiscal revenues. So that I am calling for support for the proposal of the Group from the heart to Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U378	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission is there any explanation?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U379	Yeah. The Commission considers that the catering chains mentioned by Mrs Silver have nothing to do with VAT, but more to do with quality - both products and skills - because the network of different restaurants and cafes is expanding. Either “Air”, which is constantly expanding its network. Obviously, that has nothing to do with what Mrs. Silver has said... ( Internouncing call.) If you mention hotels, let us remember that people with low incomes do not live in hotels, and tourism is influenced by quite other indicators... If we look at both Japanese and Chinese tourists who travel here, they do not need these 12 percent. But in every case, the Commission calls for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U380	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 49, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U381	8 / 8 - Mr. Zarin's proposal. There is no time to vote, because we have already rejected the application of the five-interest rate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U382	Not put to the vote... The proposal is put to the vote. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U383	Colleagues! It is this proposal that is to be put to the vote. And here I appeal primarily to my colleagues from the Union of Greens/Farmers. Mr Brigmann, that is, with your group! The essence of this proposal is... So I proposed introducing a VAT rate of five per cent and applying it to Latvian-specific fresh products - berries, fruit and vegetables. So to let you know... I was sure you know what this proposal is about, because in principle this proposal is one against what the Ministry of Agriculture has agreed and set up a working group... agreed with Latvian farmers that it will have to be. Well, if it's gonna be like that, then... Today, this proposal is on the table and you will be able to show that you really are not going to deceive farmers and that they are not just empty promises, and that what your Minister for Agriculture has agreed with the farmers will be done today. This is just about the scope that you have agreed on. This definition was designed precisely so as to have an adequate fiscal effect, such as to afford it because it is only a few million. I just met the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, who confirmed that this was about three million. I think that to the whole scope of this joint tax reform, where we only think to take hundreds of millions from the shadow economy, these three million... If you get your SRS in order, these three million will certainly be here too. So, in principle, it's just a little bit of a decent job to do, and it's going to be done. And that is why, colleagues, I am calling for this proposal to be supported. All the more so as this proposal is driven by the Minister of Agriculture himself, negotiated with farmers, agreed with officials. Everything here is right. I call on you to support this. Or show how much you really care about farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U384	Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U385	Colleagues! This proposal provides for a reduced rate of VAT - at five per cent - to be applied both to fruit and vegetables and to baby foods. It has already been extended. And then. Yesterday, too, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture confirmed that it is unreasonable to support the application of the reduced rate of VAT to fruit and vegetables as we understand that only the introduction of the reduced rate of VAT will not help to achieve what we want - to have lower prices for consumers and better business for producers. If it were simply to do so without other activities, the largest and only beneficiary would most likely be the trader alone. The package with the application of the reduced rate must certainly contain control measures so that we have confidence that the tomato or cucumber that is marketed on the Latvian market and in trading venues is indeed a cucumber of Latvia, not of Spain or the Netherlands, and that traders who depend on fruit and vegetables will not make a mark-up without generating more profit for themselves. It must come together with at least such a gentleman's agreement with the merchants. Now that I am calling for this Member's proposal not to be supported, Mr Zarins, and the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the government, will come with its proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U386	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Ivars, Inguna, Ivars, Inguna!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U387	Now it's amusing to listen to how we're told how we don't need to move things up in a hurry. But it was you who wanted to rush forward and that is why we are sitting here and dealing with something on an urgent basis, and we are looking at some of the draft laws that we have just seen! That's one thing. The other thing. If we are talking about the need for further steps to be taken, then we must say that these amendments to the law will open the door to you so that you can begin to do all of this, because the law already gives only this framework. These mechanisms - this is already the next step and you will have time to do so in parallel. I don't understand: you're not going to have enough half a year to sort it out and be able to take care of it? Well, then what are you doing there? Maybe then let those who can do it, and don't talk here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U388	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U389	Yes! Well, let us hope that the very nice 8th, as well as the next proposal will be adopted early or late, but not today, as the Minister said. So I am calling for no support at this point.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U390	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Zarina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 48, abstaining - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U391	The 9th motion by the group “From the heart to Latvia” (Interim call: “Vote!”) has also been tabled. ), which refers to the five-interest rate, is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U392	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 48, abstaining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U393	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". This is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U394	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U395	Colleagues, this proposal is a proposal on the following subject: if there is tax reform, then maybe we will make a really serious tax reform. We appreciate already the government's move that the value added tax law extends the scope of the so-called reverse value added tax, the reverse value added tax scheme. We believe that it would be absolutely justified, given the size and specific nature of the Latvian economy, to introduce such a reverse value added tax for all goods and services. We have also discussed this with various groups of entrepreneurs, who consider it to be creating the right business environment. We are aware that, of course, this is not a step that can be taken in one day or a few months. We have therefore drawn up transitional provisions for the proposal, knowing that the arrangements currently approved in the European Union (as value added tax is a regulated tax in the European Union) also do not provide for the possibility of applying these arrangements immediately to all goods and services. But while knowing that such norms are also discussed at European Union level, these discussions can be made much more focused on the fact that such a system would be important for Latvia, therefore transitional provisions provide that the system is introduced with 1 January 2019, giving the task to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop appropriate legislation by 1 April next year, which should be further harmonised and steered in the European Union. I would very much like to see that Latvia is an active defender and promoter of its interests, and not just concessions to what rules of the game are being set. I think that creating such a business environment in Latvia would be just acceptable and would certainly have a very good fiscal effect. Please support the proposal of the Group from the heart to Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U396	Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U397	Thank you to Mrs Silver for an interesting proposal. But I must admit that, although we would very much like to implement it, we cannot in practice do so, because there is no legal basis for introducing VAT reverse charge arrangements for all goods and services at the moment. Such a proposal has not yet been supported at European Union level and the 2006 directives of the European Parliament and the Council have not been properly amended. Discussions are under way. The European Commission has made a proposal that, in those areas where the country can demonstrate a sufficient share of the shadow economy, such a general reverse could be introduced by means of a two-year test regime. Unfortunately, this proposal was not supported by France at the last Council of Ministers' meetings. So that, as soon as there is such a possibility, we will come with an initiative. It is practically impossible. We are doing and offering the introduction of reverse VAT in sectors where we see a high proportion of the shadow economy. Last year we had a successful solution with cereals, electronics. This year we offer you to introduce reverse VAT in construction as well as by extending the application of reverse VAT to trade in metal products, as well as to trade in electronics and household appliances. We are preparing justifications for each sector individually, we are sounding with the European Commission and we will continue to do so. But today, unfortunately, it is not possible to introduce a general rule. That is why I would also ask you not to support Mrs Silver's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U398	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to explain the Commission's views? Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U399	11. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U401	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U403	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U405	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U407	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Association of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported. On the taxation of organic food.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U408	There is no vote either. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U409	16. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U410	There is no vote either. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U411	17. - Member Zarin's proposal. Not supported. Addition to new point 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U412	And neither can it be put to the vote. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U413	18. - Member Zarin's proposal. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U414	And you can't vote. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U415	19. - for the supplements. Member Zarins's proposal. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U416	And neither can it be put to the vote. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U417	I therefore call for support for the draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U418	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 6, for - 16, for - 16. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We could start to look at the next draft law, but I call for consideration to be given to its usefulness. ( Milestones.) So Members agree with the proposal... ( The Room Noise) Members agree to close the sitting today, so announce a break until 10 a.m. on 28 July this year. Do Members object to the adversarial of the adversary by 10 a.m. on 28 July? There is no objection. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U419	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Boriss Cilevičs, Astrid Harjus, Aleksandrs Jakilovs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Nally Kleinbergs, Andrejs Klementjevs... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Klementjev: ‘Ir!’ ), Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anrijs Matīss, Roman Mežeckis, Sergey Mirskis, Vladimir Nikonovs, Jūlija Stepanenko, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Trupovnieks... Yes, all due respect... Dr. Zakis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-27-PT12-433-U420	Thank you. So, by 10 a.m. on July 28, this year. ( Interruption)
