ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U1	Honourable Members! Dear Ministers, I invite you to take office in Saeima's meeting room so that we can begin the second extraordinary session of the Saeima's session on 13 July! ( Pause) On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. Honourable Members! I call again – please, take your seats in Saeima's meeting room! Let's start the Saeima sitting! ( Pause) On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies on Passenger Vehicle Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U2	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Finance! Minister for Education and Science! Nice to see you. Why do I call for a vote against this draft law? The vehicle operating tax law is very often amended and the system is adapted to the reality at all times. This time there are cases where the owner of the vehicle will have to pay a tax of 1/12... There are different cases. The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia has repeatedly called for (The Head of the Seimas knocks out with a hammer.) ... and I can repeat that: we are calling for a move away from vehicle operating tax in general and for it to be compensated with a slight increase in fuel prices. We have always been told that this is not possible, because it will reduce competitiveness. We now see that the government comes with this legislative package and claims that all these laws are aimed at increasing competitiveness and will therefore raise excise duty rates on fuel. In other words, there is once again a complete contradiction between what we said and what we could have done for a long time... but then he couldn't. Now, this is suddenly possible, because the government has come up with the idea that more money can be raised in this way. Yesterday the Minister of Finance stated that Lithuania and Estonia are planning to introduce a similar vehicle tax. I don't know. I want to ask the finance ministers to indicate the sources from which they know it. The draft law indicates that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! January 1, 2019! Why such a hurry?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This could, of course, be said about all these draft laws that we will look at today, but this is particularly true of this particular case. The law is scheduled for January 1, 2019. We are now together in the summer, and we will quickly look at the rest of the law, as well as this draft law. The government expects us to meet and evaluate all of them at first reading and next morning at second reading already on Monday. In two readings, we will quickly bring it all through! Extract of the minutes of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is also attached to this draft law, indicates that the Cabinet of Ministers calls for its urgent recognition. And paragraph 4 states that in the process of reviewing the tax reform package, the Cabinet of Ministers will support only proposals that will have fiscally neutral effects. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers believes that we will come together here now, let us talk, but no proposal that will have a fiscal impact - whether it is submitted from the opposition or from the position - will be supported by the government. And everything will be done! Ladies and gentlemen, especially Members of the Coalition! You have once expressed your confidence in the government, you have expressed your trust in the entire Cabinet of Ministers. However, the Cabinet and the government continue to show every year in the process of reviewing the budget that they do not trust you, because they drive the budget in two readings... Yes, and all known quotas are divided between the right and the left. Today, we see that the government and the Cabinet of Ministers once again express your distrust, the honourable Members of the coalition, because once again, so important tax laws are being healed as a matter of urgency. The government does not trust that you are able to improve this tax system in some way and in some way are able to understand this system, as the Minister said. Ladies and gentlemen! I call for the rejection of all the other draft laws, both in their substance and in their entirety, as they have to be seen as a whole. In my opinion, this legislative package is not currently of adequate quality. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U3	Edgars Putra, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U4	Colleagues! A pretty amusing situation. Mr Viļuma talks about one tax, about a vehicle operating tax, where the current order is actually maintained, namely, advanceing simply continues for some time... But the question is why, Mr Viļuma, you did not talk about the whole package as such? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “I don’t talk!” ) Because in this case there are both the issues where we get and where we lose. In this regard, perhaps we do not lose anything, but we also do not get anything. Let us therefore talk about personal income tax, corporate tax and the benefits that this package brings. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.) I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U5	So one Member said 'no', one said 'for'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies Tax on Light Vehicles”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 13, for - 19. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, “Assistance Law for Taxpayers for the Redemption of Late Fines and Penalty”, be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 69, for - 7, for - 7. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Tax and Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 29, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 24, for - 8. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on corporate income tax presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Violums: “Let’s vote!” ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Tax on Microbusinesses", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 11, for - 2. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - no, for - 20. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared. The name of the Member, Janis Wuzan, for his statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U6	Dear colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Commission meeting at 10.35 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U7	Name for the notification...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U8	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Lolita Čigāne, Jānis Dombrava, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Jānis Kžads, Līga Kozlovska... is, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Romanas Mežeckis, Sergej Mirskis, Vladimir Nikonovs, Sergej Potapkin, Jūlija Stepanenko, Jānis Trupovnieks, Ilze Viņķele and Dzintars Zaķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-13-PT12-430-U9	Thank you. The Saeima closed the session of the second extraordinary session on 13 July 2017.
