ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister! Minister for Finance! Ministers! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We will continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima with the agenda announced on October 25. Dear colleagues, I call on you to take seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima! On the agenda - the state budget for 2018 and the accompanying draft laws. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Good morning, members of the Cabinet of Ministers! The “From the heart to Latvia” group does not support the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” and, of course, it cannot support the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020, because this is not a budget that has been prepared in the public interest. At the time the economy grew in Latvia, the whole world economy also grew. What the Latvian Government offers is to further increase the debt burden on Latvian society. And instead of integrating reforms that really contribute to the economy, give more productive jobs, nothing is done to make public administration more rational. On the contrary. The public administration continues to rise because instead of the promised economic and efficient public administration, the number of state units is increased, the wage bill is increased, and unfortunately it is done at the expense of other programmes. The Ministry of Transport has the opportunity to take funds from the State Road Handling Programme to increase salaries for the central apparatus, the Ministry of Education and Science can increase salaries for its central apparatus by taking money from the infant feeding programme for grades 1-4, and as always, in each budget the Ministry of Finance stands out. The Ministry of Finance will increase the average wage for its central apparatus by more than EUR 310 next year. Plus 1.3 million at the salary fund, plus seven posts. So, on average, one post in the central unit will cost more than €180,000. Is this a responsible attitude towards taxpayers? We do not think that this is the case. And unfortunately, all the institutions are not already in the same position that everyone in the budget has such a programme that one could draw in so that the central apparatus could raise salaries. Unfortunately, this does not work for the judiciary, nor does it work for the prosecutor's office, because their wage reform is being stopped. In previous years, it has also been promised gradually to increase the remuneration of these employees and to make it adequate for the wages of the other public administration employees. The following year, they have to meet with one round zero! What the government does not offer when it comes to optimisation measures... It can be seen here that in principle there is no optimisation in order to make the state apparatus more rational, to some extent to reduce the functions or to fulfil the new functions at the expense of the previous reduction. That's not happening! There are a number of other problems that I want to talk about. Of course, it is a pleasure that the position has in some ways started to listen to the fact that it cannot mechanically stop financing boarding schools. And maybe now will be the time to go to boarding schools and see how children actually live in these schools, whether it is a segmented environment or - quite the other way around! - a child-supporting, motivational and self-confident travelling environment. We cannot accept a budget that does not fully comply with the legal obligations that already exist. In particular, the law sets out what science funding should be, what annual growth in science should be, but nothing like that in this budget can be seen. When, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax), I asked Minister for Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, how to understand the choice of priorities, because for sports projects, the budget is increasing by EUR 5.9 million next year, and for science by 1.4 million, he replied honestly, of course, that the budget is being created in the following way: "When one year has a larger fiscal space, it can be used for a one-off event. In 2019 this fiscal space is decreasing and therefore it is not possible to foresee funding for a long-term measure such as a science that would gradually provide the funds." It only shows once again - and this is not the only example, but such a very visible example! - that budgeting has been, is and remains a mathematical Excel table without a long-term plan and without a long-term vision. The restoration of roads. I call a cat's tear the way in which an amendment to the financing of the roads has been made. In particular, provision is made for the possibility that, if annual gross domestic product increases by at least five per cent, some of this will also apply to roads. I think road builders and repairers live in great illusions about the fact that such a formula will ever allow them to experience a real increase in expenditure on roads. For medical services. In our view, this is totally unacceptable if we bring up a budget that shows, as one figure, this huge increase in healthcare funds (EUR 198 million - this is certainly welcome!) but it is not for Members to know how this big increase will then be spent. It is also a very important issue in the sense that this increase is being built at the expense of an increase in the deficit, with the estimates that the reforms to be carried out in healthcare will provide an additional contribution to the economy or some kind of economy in the other part of the budget. So that is essential: to understand whether the reforms planned are really those which, in general, will make it possible to reduce this deficit in the public budget in the coming years. Once again, when I asked why this information was not available to Members, the answer was that this use of funds should first be harmonised in Brussels. Who then determines how health care will be provided to Latvian society?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We have to call Brussels first, and only then can we make a decision! We believe it is wrong to provide in the law that decisions will be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers, but the Saeima will not be informed at all about how these 198 million are divided. Now, there are a number of problems in this budget. So this budget continues chronically with the same disease that has already been regularly in each budget and is also in the current budget in 2017, which we see on regular reallocations of appropriations. This means that the 2018 budget already includes expenditure programmes that are not financed according to the commitments that these programmes must meet. A classic example is rail infrastructure, for which the next year's budget already has a deficit of 13 million. They are also compensating medicines, they are also the payments that Latvia has to make for the treatment of its citizens in the European Union countries. So this debt continues to grow, because Latvia is only able to pay for small liabilities, which are already under a three-year deadline. I will show you how the same Members' quotas can be successfully seen in the budget on the example of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Of course, it is pleasant to see in this example that the work of the team appears in the government and that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is no longer only a ministry dealing with environmental problems, regional development, it also helps other ministries to address their competence issues. Thus, for example, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development will promote a healthy lifestyle in Latgale with a programme of 120,000 euros. Of course, it is very welcome, as I said, this team approach. The Ministry of Health does not deal with healthy lifestyles. The pilot project will probably start in Latgale. There was no real answer to the question: why is Latgale and why is the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development that will be better able to promote this healthy lifestyle? But that is certainly a very good example. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development also helps the Ministry of Education and Science... And with the "Children's Safe Kindergarten" event and such a very interesting amount - 91 951 euros - will definitely contribute to the implementation of educational programmes. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is a very responsive Ministry: it will also help the Ministry of Welfare to address family issues, as the event it has implemented next year will be the competition “Family friendly municipality”. There will also be the Fair Family Year, the activities of which will be financed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development as one of the most helpful and responsive ministries in the government. We are very pleased that the initiatives that “From the heart to Latvia” have been driven several times, such as the reduction of value added tax on healthy food, have gained a certain degree of responsiveness, and therefore the value added tax on fruit and vegetables is being reduced. Hopefully, the economy will be able to see their return because, in our opinion, three years' time to set such a standard, and then perhaps to review it - this does not mean a forward-looking policy. But hopefully such mistakes will be corrected and the policy will be far-sighted. That is why we are calling for all the measures, the expenditure that legislation and legislation require to be prepared and included in the budget for the second reading, and indeed for the state's contribution to economic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U3	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues! Members of the Cabinet of Ministers! I would like to say that at least two draft laws from this package of draft laws accompanying the budget gave me an uncharacteristic reaction. And so my reaction was that I wanted to fist... I want to hit the trigger on the tube (which I won’t do) and I want to say, “Bitty” in the hair! What's going on?Oh, no, no, no, What's going on? Where is the elemental logic, and where is the elementary economy in these matters?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ‘I refer to the draft law on the Public Probation Service Act and the draft law on the Roads Act’. Amendment to the Law on Public Probation Service. 50.5 thousand euros... but we're done for another two years. In a situation where... For me, the last data was that in 2015 one prisoner had to keep up to 27 euros. This programme provides that the State co-finances through the Probation Service - not already grants, but co-financing! - EUR 15 and the service provider pays EUR 7 per person, and there will therefore cost EUR 22 per person for rehabilitation. Ten people could be prepared for normal social life within a year - so that they no longer return to prison and no longer be a major tax burden for society as a whole. Figures and statistics show that there is a very high level of relapsing in Latvia. Very high! Within ten years, 90 percent of former prisoners return to prison. This contrasts with the example of Wheelers. ‘ Ratnieki” is a rehabilitation centre, a non-governmental organisation that helps these people through a social rehabilitation programme. Experience shows that within 15 years, only about 10 percent of the more than 500 prisoners who received rehabilitation in the centre returned to prison. Every social worker will tell you in elementary terms that with the thing that is prescribed for municipalities - to give an apartment and help find a job - these people have not been helped. Their problems are very complex. There are addiction problems, there are psychological and even psychiatric things. ( Internouncing call.) And that means that these people need this complex programme. About 4.4 thousand young men are sitting in our prisons, mostly in the age of 30-35. They will return to society early or late. Early or late! And if society fails to show interest in them and does not help them get back on track directly through the State Probation Service, just through such programmes, then they will again create new problems - new suffering for themselves and others. And we don't know which one of us might happen in the course of such a man. Next. Amendments to the Law on Roads. 93 percent of the country’s population said that they were extremely dissatisfied with the situation of roads. More than half of them are extremely dissatisfied with the condition of roads. Well, I'll say this: they're ready to take the pin and somewhere to go to look for justice. After all, if you look at the very well-designed annotation, then the question arises: where is our clear mind and our economic attitude towards things? If it is said that the economy loses € 1.1 billion every year because of the unsubordinated roads, and if we know that road users paid more than € 470 million in tax in 2016, and if it is foreseen that more than € 500 million will be paid in 2017, 2018 and 2019, then why do we, knowing these figures, divide these trembled roads into only 233,1 million in 2018 and add a little more than 25 million each year? Right yesterday, one of my fellow Members said: “When we have repaired the last mile of the road at such a pace, all the previous ones will have collapsed!” And we know it, and citizens know it. So why do we wonder that the Saeima is so low in rating? Let us not regard men as foolish and unwise, and let us regard ourselves as wise and powerful (but not true, let us say, from the point of view). And let us be wise and powerful in making the right decisions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U5	Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U6	Hello, honourable Prime Minister! Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that here many speak and express many truths. What, though, is truth and reality? There are two sides. For example, on average salary. If one receives 10 000 and the other receives one euro per month, of course, the average salary will be five thousand. That's right. But there is another one right. Let us say when 100 people receive 10 000 per month and a million receive 500 euro per month. The average salary will be EUR 501. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “This is about girls!” ) Thus, if the bill is true, the number of people with these high salaries must be calculated in Latvia. There's not so many of them. And they don't set their average salary. Now about some conceptual things. Gross domestic product is a very important figure. But it's about the budget... it's not about it now. I would like to point out that in 2010, the budget accounted for 36.9 per cent of gross domestic product. 36.9 per cent of gross domestic product! In 2015 only 26 percent. So this means that 10 per cent of gross domestic product disappeared. It should be noted that we have 31.58 percent of gross domestic product next year, if I am not mistaken. However, we have growth compared to 2015, 2014 and 2017. ... There's more next year. However, this is an important issue. We take less from the budget of gross domestic product than from our neighbours - Estonia and other countries -. And there's less to share. It follows that the Ministry of Defence has two per cent of gross domestic product (no discussion about this, it is internationally accepted and it is unequivocal)... But I am sorry, when, for example, some subordinates of the Ministry of Health start to appeal to the gross domestic product - how many of them are divided over other countries - then other ministries should also look more at and compare with other countries, what part of the budget is allocated to that or another ministry compared to their neighbours. That would be much fairer and more reasonable. Because you can already talk about why we've taken so little or so much into the budget. More conceptual things when it comes to the budget. It's the 21st century. I understand that, in accordance with the law, the concept of national security will be reviewed in the new parliamentary term and its part - the concept of national defence. But the question of how rightly we spend the defence budget, for example, is topical today. Because the concept of national defence determines what tasks the security structures will perform, what tasks they will have, what tasks they will need, what equipment and so on. Everyone has agreed, and it is understandable to everyone that NATO smart defence, collective smart defence, is a deterrent factor. We can feel sure that no one will attack us because it is a suicide - an attack on NATO territory. But when it comes to real things, what happens is hybrid war, the green people, the division of society and so on, they are also forms of war. And here you can discuss what bodies are responsible for what they do, what they do and what equipment they need. That is very, I think, essential. If someone finds a lot of weapons at home, if there's an explosion in a house that's had an explosive, or 100 kilograms, it's not normal. This should be monitored. Who do we pay attention to, and who should we pay more attention to? I should, I think, also focus on these things. It is not normal for our neighbours, such as Lithuanians, to steal agricultural machinery, but the police lack resources. Should we help the police? We already have experience: before the war there was a protective structure. We've got the Earthguard now. Perfectly, there's a Earthguard! But here you have to talk, discuss exactly what tasks the security structure has to carry out, and then you can also talk about what equipment to buy. Perhaps not today, but tomorrow's question is how the functions and responsibilities between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence are divided. There are many issues here that should be discussed when we talk about the concept of national security and also about the concept of national defence. I therefore urge that these issues should also be dealt with in general. These are conceptual issues. The budget I support, the budget is normal, it can be approved today... There will always be people who are dissatisfied, and it is natural. It will not be enough for everyone to be very satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U7	The name of Member John Adamson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U8	Highly honored Presidium! Prime Minister! Colleagues! On what concerns the State Probation Service. I hope colleagues understood yesterday's statement by the Minister of Justice and everyone can vote 'no' in the vote on this bill. And I would like to congratulate the Minister of Justice for understanding his mistakes. There are, however, a number of problems that have provoked me to speak for the second time. The Minister for Finance spoke about the fight against the shadow economy, the share of the shadow economy. You know, weird. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is what? - five years to deal with the need to organise the activities of security firms. Official document from the State Revenue Service shows Reizniece-Ozola that the share of the shadow economy in this area amounts to 14-16 million euros a year. Can it be combated? This is a very simple thing to do here: we need to change the law a little. First of all, it needs to be divided into two parts in order to distinguish between security services and security guards. Because if you're in the security service, you don't need certificates, licences or the like, but you do the same duties without training. And so on. That's one thing. The other thing. Colleagues, yesterday was a joint meeting of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission, which was dedicated to problems with the quality of pre-trial investigations in the State Police. In 2009, the Police Academy was dissolved, and if you carefully get acquainted with the timetables included in the State Audit Office report, you will see that all its problems are pictured in them with curves down or up and have begun just after the Police Academy was dissolved. From 2010, the 10th century, Mr Kučinskis, I call on the Prime Ministers to evaluate and renew the activities of the Police Academy all the time when discussing the budget. We don't have any specialized body to make shots. It was also noted by the State Audit Office in its audit. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption three times unanimously decided that the National Security Academy should be established on the basis of the National Defence Academy of Latvia, where specialists could be trained. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “It’s not! Don’t lie!” ) It works if you are hard with memory, restore it... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The result - there have been letters, but so far there is no answer. How far are we going to go? We're talking about security all the time. It should be noted that we have improved cooperation in many ways in recent years with the Ministry of Defence. And thanks to this cooperation, at last - 20 years later! - we will start mandatory military patriotic education in schools from 2019. Thank God! But at the same time, it is absurd that 30 years will have passed, when the armed forces will finally receive their full equipment in 2020. And where are all those former ministers who were responsible for both armaments and equipment and so on? Why is none of those responsible held accountable? Of those who got worse (intentionally deteriorated!) the security situation - neither former home affairs ministers nor former defence ministers. And this is where it starts to be irresponsibly. Mr. Prime Minister! There are many things that we could talk about and talk about, but there is a question of when, at last, we will all understand that the Cabinet is an employee, but the employer is a parliament. Could we finally see ministers in this regard not only during the budget discussion, but also when there are issues that are important to the ministry in the commissions? See ministers or at least parliamentary secretaries. If they don't come, then please them! There will be money savings. Last example: Today we will look at the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism".
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U9	Thank you, Mr. Adamson. Your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U10	I'll finish right away. At second reading 155 proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U11	Thank you, Mr. Adamson. Your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U12	We're talking about quality...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U14	Hello, dear colleagues! Listening to the beautiful, nice and true talks, I thought it necessary to say one thing: be aware of how important budget adoption is for our people. The more we go with the lobby, the more our interests are accompanied, the less people will want to pay taxes. The more we take care of, the more we put the interests of the people at the forefront, the more people will want to pay these taxes. And if we put the lobby in front of us and our interests in drawing up the budget, we will be aware that it is unethical to ask the people to pay taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U15	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U16	The High Saeima! Colleagues Ministers! Mr. Prime Minister! I do not know, to be honest, any country where there would be no discussion on the draft budget. Maybe except Saudi Arabia, but now there's a different situation. I want to talk about three things. The first is the nature of the budget, the accompanying laws and the technology for drawing up the draft budget. When it comes to the budget as such, it seems to me that combined priorities are very well. But increasing resources to achieve priorities cannot happen without reforms. We often regard reform as a case of adding two violins and an harp to the blower orchestra, let us say. We call it musical reform. It seems to me that no reform has so far been formulated precisely, with precise objectives and paths, how these objectives can be achieved. We are therefore talking on the ground about reforms, but we are not reforming anything. It also affects public administration, which was talked about very much today and yesterday. Believe me that no real reform of public administration structures will take place during the election year, as it is a great reserve for many political forces to get support for pre-election in the fight. On accompanying draft laws. To be honest, I have noted with great regret that the quality of the draft laws drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers has deteriorated dramatically over recent years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “It’s true!” ) And the draft laws attached here are unfortunately no exception. There are many examples there, I will only mention one thing: that one of the three sectors of power is removed from the single remuneration system. This is a dangerous precedent, and I very much hope that the Constitutional Court will improve the government's hardy men who have incorporated this norm. And the third moment. On the technology of budget preparation. You see, any state budget is not a coalition budget. It's a state budget. And so, when there is a fight between developers and accountants, when preparing the draft budget, as is happening with us, the developer often loses when we need to put revenue and expenditure on the shelves. And here, it is very important that the body of Members can also contribute to the preparation of the budget. It is not just a coalition, it is also an opposition. And given that the opposition has been virtually excluded from the preparation of the draft budget for many years, it would seem to me that it is not particularly correct and not particularly fair to ask the opposition to take responsibility for the work which it has not planned and for which it has not participated. ( Interface: “They’re in the same situation now! ” ) Consequently, opposition Members do not support the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U18	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! When we look at this budget, of course, we are dealing with the current problems - health, safety, demographics. None of them can be denied. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the government on this budget. It was presented as follows... is requested from the Saeima huge mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers to go further in the implementation of education reform. I really support this approach and believe that the Cabinet of Ministers will also succeed in further addressing these problems with the school network. However, despite all this, it was quite important, in my opinion, what Mr Viļuma mentioned yesterday when he spoke about what is happening in the regions. And this regional development assumes the most optimistic scenario - minus 40 thousand in Latgale. Pessimist - minus 60,000 in Latgale. These figures, which have been found by researchers, are worth listening to. And it is also worth listening to those researchers who look from the edge at Latvia (e.g. OECD) and who also mention specific problems that prevent regions from developing successfully. And as one of the main problems, access to housing is currently mentioned. And despite all the big investments and all the things that are in this budget, there has been a really historic agreement with the municipalities, but the municipalities, in order to make such investments, do not have the possibility of receiving assistance from the Structural Funds; at the moment, there is no possibility of receiving assistance from the budget in a normal way to deal with these things, and those municipalities that do this in some way are now getting into the role of the victim, because all the investments that would be needed in the city for different things are concentrated, as is the case in Valmiera, for example, by implementing a single project of apartment houses, and imposing an inadequate budgetary burden on the city. In order to address these problems and to help countries to address these regional problems in a very targeted way, there is currently no such instrument in the budget. Such an instrument would be if we renewed the state investment programme, and the National Administration and Local Government Commission had prepared and sent such a proposal yesterday to the Cabinet of Ministers with an invitation to start work in such a way that it is already in force by 2020, so that we can help regions to solve very specific problems and promote growth in the most efficient way with the state budget. I invite you to support the budget for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( The transcripts are, ‘ At last! ’) ; dep. S. Aboltiņa: “We were looking forward to you!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U20	Yeah, thank you. Hello, colleagues! Hello, ministers! We also wanted to congratulate the Prime Minister, but he must have been tired of this budget debate. ( Milestones.) Hello, Prime Minister! I very much hope that you are here today, not just to show up, but also really interested in this debate and how this budget is being considered. Now my voice of reason begins to fight with faith in the beautiful man. That is, if we look at the real facts, how the budget is being discussed in the Saeima, then these are interesting facts. In the Commission, we decided... In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, where the budget should be assessed, how it will affect the economy, we discussed the budget of the Ministry of Transport, the budget of the Ministry of Economics, the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development. Important ministries, important areas. None of the ministers had come. I'll tell you more. The next day we discussed the overall framework of the budget, the budget for the next year. No one ever came. We didn't even have anyone reporting. This demonstrates the role of the Saeima in the budgetary process. In principle everything has been decided, you can say what you want, it has no meaning. That feels like that. Listening to the government's speeches about the budget, I will, of course, remember the anecdotes. The government speaks to the people and says, “Soon we will live better!” To whom the people answer: “We are glad for you.” I have been hearing these talks about economic recovery for years. I've heard them from the time of the success story. They say that the economic breakthrough will just start. I would very much like to hear how we will achieve this. At the time, it was during Dombrovskis's government, it was said: our success story is based on the fact that we have enough fiscal beauty, then we will be desired by the rich investors coming here, and we will have everything. At that time, I tried to explain that this would not happen, and I told you what would happen. What we now see is that we will come to the fundamental problems, the productivity problems, the fact that we will not have a workforce here. Because this success story, this short-term beautiful fiscal effect, was created by turning investment into productivity factors. And that was obvious. Today, too, we are once again talking about an economic breakthrough. When we assessed budgetary forecasts in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, there is one component, and those who understand something know how important it is. This is potential GDP growth. There was an analysis of how this potential GDP growth will be achieved. And the main component on which the emphasis was placed was the increase in productivity. Then I asked the Ministry of Finance: “Tell me how? Where do you see that we will create productivity gains? Yes, of course, there are some market conditions where entrepreneurs will be forced to increase productivity in some way. But the question is, where is this state contribution?” This is being done globally in the context of a new technological revolution that is taking place when knowledge, innovation, and the knowledge economy are at the heart. I assume that we have some new way in place. Because if you look at the budget, what do we see? We really see regrettable funding for science. If we look at it in a comparable way, how much do we invest in research and development? 0.4 per cent of GDP. It's normal. Countries that are developing, which are really thinking about this path of growth, about how to become more productive, for years their contribution to GDP has been around three per cent. I have a question: how do we intend to ensure this? Mr Kučinski, you are really trying to do something about this innovation, so I want to point out the problems that I see clearly, where they will be fundamental, and where you should be involved as a head of government, because no minister alone - neither the Minister of Economics, nor the Minister of Education and Science, nor the new economy... the new Minister for Economics: the more we will not be able to deal with it. The problem that emerges is as follows: As you remember, in order to become more innovative, a strategic decision was made that we should develop a smart, specialised strategy, that is, find areas where we can do something meaningful, wise, something useful to the whole world. Its areas have been approved. What we've seen now in this last... the so-called Innovation Council, led by the Minister for Economic Affairs in your place? Eight priority axes appear to have been developed. Eight priority directions! We had five areas, five areas of smart specialisation in which we are going. There are now eight directions, and all of them are almost all! - the areas are placed in one of these directions. Imagine how much of this will start in the world of science! You're seeing everything going on out there! And if these crossset settings are now given, then it's just an evening on the lake! Let us listen to what the whole scientific sector will say about this. I see why these innovations could be so important. If we look at the road infrastructure that you talked about, then we see this dynamic. The European Structural Funds will come to an end right now, in 2018, we have 351 million... but immediately after the elections there will be a sharp fall. These funds will fall by about one quarter. How do you feel about dealing with these problems? Neither does anyone say that. Perhaps we really have to deal with them in an innovative way. Is it really enough to take care of the roads, to start developing drone technologies? There will be one big motivation, and all of them hundreds of millions will be able to immerse themselves in there. And how many of us have left in the fields of those people? Let's take them with drones, and the roads won't be needed! If we are talking about passenger transport, then there is one very interesting thing here. By law, the State has committed itself to the carriers that passenger transport will be compensated. It is established by law! However, if we look at the budget, we do not find this money that is necessary for compensation. So in this regard, the question is: on the basis of what considerations and with what mandate can the government violate the law when preparing the budget? Minister! I asked this question in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, but no one was able to answer me. Everyone said that the Minister for Finance should be asked. The Minister for Finance is here, maybe she can explain? Why is it she going to fail what is recorded in the law, the obligations of which she is legally committed to? Why is this money not intended? Prime Minister, you said that there is no populism in this budget. ( What an intermediate call: “Let us not blow the ducks! ” ) You know, so that there are no populism droplets, maybe one more thing needs to be put in the budget. And I'm ready to do it if it's necessary. In particular, it is necessary to foresee in the budget that their inscription is on the wall of the Cabinet of Ministers - “One law - one truth for all!” - Let's get it off. And then really the words will be in harmony with the works and you will be able to work still. We are constantly seeing how our budget is being created. Our budget, our fiscally beautiful budget, is usually at the expense of three things. It's health, it's road infrastructure. ... At the expense of this, we usually achieve... Without proper funding, we can get these beautiful fiscal numbers. There is also the third thing that is very important now and which should be addressed - education. In principle, these are those things - the three big challenges that we should face. These are long-term challenges. I see that education, of course, is the most important of these. You have to put your education together. Unfortunately, all these things are being dealt with one another again, and the Prime Minister's involvement would be of great importance here. Why? Because, in principle, all these three things should be dealt with synergistically if we want to put them in order. They have similar problems, and all these problems are ultimately rooted in an administrative territorial division. Changing the administrative territorial distribution by making it adequate... Similarly, now is trying to create a network of schools... Looking at where human potential exists and where appropriate infrastructure should be concentrated and built, we could tackle all these problems more effectively - both with regard to the school network, with regard to the network of health institutions and with regard to the roads. Then it would also be obvious where the funds would be needed. And in this way we could deal with it. But that doesn't happen for some reason. I understand that there are these political ambitions, which are local powers, and no one wants to change anything. But try to see: if this is not done, then these issues cannot simply be solved with the existing budgetary opportunities! They cannot be resolved constructively! And finally. There was a great deal of talk here and one of the efforts in this budget was to reduce value added tax on healthy food by five percent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “But you’re a vegetarian! Very well!” ) It would be important here to know the backstages. This proposal has been very long - very long! - was pickled by the Ministry of Agriculture and could not have come out of it. And only when this proposal was put to the Saeima during the discussion of tax reform (the exact way it has been done for a long time, and only when the coalition itself put forward this proposal) was it only that this proposal could finally move. Mr. Arnish, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, then came, pressed my hand and said: “Thank you! Finally, we will be able to go further with this proposal and get through it!" What do I mean by that? It is obvious that without this government there is no future. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U21	The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U22	Good morning for all those present! Mr. Zarins, you are not right about the last sentence. It was quite embarrassing when we were talking about the budget here. — Dep. I.Zariņš: “Tell me something better about the budget!” ) General of the Latvian Army Mr. Krēsliņš... Mr. Zarins, you laugh, yeah... Then, in the first row, the person who owes the state of Latvia 16. 14 thousand euros, and the Minister of Education and Science, who has arrived today (not here yesterday), laughed Kārlis Krēsliņa, calling him a two-toed pebble. Horrible shame! Really! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “If you are ashamed, be ashamed!” ) There was Spoliti, shame! ( Interface: ‘ Talk about the budget! ’) ) Regarding the procedure. It turns out that Veiko Spolitis is a normal phenomenon - to call the General of the Latvian Army a two-toeed prick. Yeah... And this is what the Minister for Education and Science, who must have the highest ethical standards...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U23	I remind you that the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U24	On the state budget... Mrs. Moore, maybe not to stop, it's not the time!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U25	Article 72 of the parliamentary order roll. I recommend that you get to know and follow this, as is the case with the other Members. Continue the debate on the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” and the accompanying draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U26	On the procedure. There will be a vote now and a request to all coalition parties. The first question is about amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service, where the Minister of Justice promised yesterday to find 54 500 euros for this first bill, which you did not support yesterday when we voted for it. I have a request to all of you not to support it, because there is a mistake. It is written that you support the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2020, but the opposition offered... because in some miraculous manner it has come to be from 1 January 2018. If you now vote in the same way as you voted last time, it will happen that you do not believe in your minister, who is your coalition minister, in this case Rasnač. And then it's gonna be weird. So be so kind, please reject everyone in the first vote now, who will. ( Minister for Finance, D. Reizniece-Ozola: There is a second reading of the proposals!) ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U27	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U28	Good morning, colleagues! I'm very brief. In view of the fact that the term 'Members' quotas' has been said here several times, from the tribunal, I would like to remind you, however, that the concept arose because there were proposals addressed by certain Members to some small, local, specific needs with small amounts. I remember: last year, let's say, my quota went to the Dardede Centre, where this money provided a specially equipped space for hearing children's testimony from sexual abuse. I didn't even go to the opening of this office. So there was no such deep interest. But now, of course, all these needs are arranged in the way it should be in the law, and all are included in the budget. I'm the only one, though... Of course, we will very much await the opposition's proposals for second reading, and I call on you not to step up on the same rabbis and not to submit proposals that will look very much like MEPs' quotas. And the other thing. The budgetary procedure. You know, colleagues in Russian are such a good saying: “?Is that so? Is that so???? Is that so?????? Is that so?Is that so? Is that so???????,???? Is that so???? Is that so??????!” Yes... (Applause) (Laughter) In translation, this means that a mirror should not be blamed if the face has failed. On the principle of the adoption of the budget. Look at how the budget is adopted by the Riga City Council! Same positions... Members of the opposition cannot even find out how funds are spent in a particular municipal enterprise, let alone the entire budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U29	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, does Mr Wuzan want to add something? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” “We know!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U30	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues Members and Members! Thank you for this debate. On behalf of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, when preparing the budget for 2018, and the medium-term budgetary framework, as well as the accompanying legislative package for the first reading, listened to both the Prime Ministers, the Ministers of Finance and representatives of all ministries, and many representatives of ministries found the opportunity to participate in the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. We also listened to the Head of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. We heard the heads of all the institutions that are independent of the budget. As regards the preparation of the budget, we have spoken about aspects with which both the heads of the ministries and the heads of the institutions that are independent of the budget are satisfied, and also those where problems remain. A very large part of what we heard from the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) was also played here in speeches by various political groups in these two days - yesterday and today. There were also issues that were discussed at the meetings of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, but which were not discussed here today or yesterday. In any case, this debate, in my view, had a good opportunity for the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to continue working on these draft laws in order to prepare them for second reading. Of course, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission hopes that proposals for second reading will be tabled. Part of the proposals have already been discussed in the first reading of the draft budget package legislation within our committee. And the texts agreed with the ministries are almost clear. There remain only a few draft laws - a couple of draft laws, I would like to say - whose preparation for the second reading really requires very serious work. However, these draft laws are an integral part of the budget package (in the form in which this package is currently being built) and their removal would currently lead to a whole series of consistencys that would not be so easy to resolve. So today, when we go through all the draft laws in turn, on behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I will call for all the draft laws to be supported at first reading in future. All draft laws will also be set a single deadline for the submission of proposals (I will mention this when we talk about each draft law individually); this single deadline will be at 17.00 on 31 October 2017, by which the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission will be willing to receive proposals for second reading. It will also be proposed that all the draft laws of this package at second reading be presented at an extraordinary meeting on 22 November this year. These are the recommendations of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for further work on the budget package. And now probably we have to go through all the draft laws separately, in a row.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U31	Thank you to the rapporteur. As Mr Wucaan said, we need to vote in favour of each individual draft budget package.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U32	The first of the draft laws to be considered is the “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”. I will try to say very briefly what is the dispatch of each bill, why it is in the budget package, if there are, of course, no significant objections to colleagues. This amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service has practically already told Mrs Šimfas in the debate, so I do not want to add anything more. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 39, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U34	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 31 October at 5 p.m. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U35	So the proposals are due by 31 October of this year, the examination of the parliamentary session - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U36	Amendments to the Law on Tourism. ‘ Amendments to the Tourism Act’. This draft law is designed to improve the existing system of monitoring of the tourism sector and provides: introduction of mandatory licensing for tourism agents and operators; covering the costs necessary to ensure the repatriation of travellers from the “Unforeseeable assets” programme; improvement of the control and monitoring mechanism by providing for the establishment of new functions for the Consumer Centre, while strengthening the capacity of this centre. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U38	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 31 October at 5 p.m. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U39	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 31 October of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U40	‘Amendment to the Act on Accounting’. ‘ Amendment to the Law on Accounting’. This draft law is in the budget package in order to implement accounting of revenue of the state budget in accordance with the principle of accumulation. The draft law provides that the tax returns established by regulatory enactments are to be counted as an external justification document. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U41	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Accounting”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U42	Proposals for the second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October, at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U43	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 31 October of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U44	Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management. ‘ Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’. This draft law refines and also reduces the administrative burden in the budget development and implementation processes, efficiently increases the incorporation of the budget institutions' own revenue and its balances into the budget, regulates the processes affecting the request for funding for priority measures, and provides for the regulation of the accounting of state budget revenue according to the principle of accrual. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U46	Submission of proposals for second reading - 31 October at 5 p.m. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U47	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 31 October of this year, the examination of the parliamentary session - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U48	See the draft law on the financing of the preservation of the Sacred Heritage. This is a new law providing for the establishment of a scheduled support programme for the restoration of the sacral heritage and urgent works. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the financing of the conservation of the Sacred Heritage. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U50	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 31 October at 5 p.m. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U51	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 5 p.m. on 31 October this year, and the sitting of the Saeima on 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U52	See the bill “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”. This draft law is due to the fact that in 2018 there will be a rapid change in the minimum monthly salary from 380 euros to 430 euros (which we have already decided in the middle of this year), and therefore in 2018-2020 a gradual increase in the minimum maintenance capacity is foreseen. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U53	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -33, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U54	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U55	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U56	See ‘Amendments to the Land Management Act’. The third section of this Law contains the regulation of the implementation of land consolidation provided by the State Land Service. Taking into account that state budget funds have not been allocated to the State Land Service for this purpose in the amount of more than 83 thousand euros, it is necessary to postpone the start of consolidation of land until 1 January 2020. It involves changes to this law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 57, against - 34, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U58	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U59	So the proposals are due by 5 p.m. on 31 October this year, and the sitting of the Saeima on 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U60	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the law on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of an employer”. This draft law is due to the fact that at present, as the financial situation in the country stabilizes, a significant accumulation of employees' claims in the guarantee fund has been created. It is therefore possible to ensure favourable conditions for employees and to increase from 1 January 2018 the amount to be covered by the guarantee fund, i.e. from the minimum monthly salary for each claim to the minimum monthly salary of one and a half months for each claim in the event of insolvency of the employer. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U61	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the protection of employees in the event of employer insolvency”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U62	Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U63	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U64	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Regulators”. This draft law ensures the development of the regulator's financing models from January 1, 2018 and provides for the collection of savings from the revenues of the state fee by introducing a minimum fixed state fee of 400 euros in order to arrange the records and supervision of the operators who have registered as public service providers in the past, but have not started the provision of regulated services. The costs of monitoring such economic operators are currently not covered by the fees due by these economic operators. These changes to the draft law also provide for the annual accountability of regulators to the Parliaments for the implementation of the budget and the activities of regulators, and their aim is to improve the supervision of the activities of regulators. I call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U65	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Regulators”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U66	Submission of proposals for second reading by 5 p.m. on 31 October Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U67	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U68	Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment. ‘ Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment’. This draft law provides for a gradual withdrawal from extended normal working time, reducing the length of extended normal working time in 2018 and 2019 as well as certain other amendments. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U70	Submission of proposals for second reading by 5 p.m. on 31 October Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U71	Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U72	We work with the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment””. The purpose and tasks of this draft law have already been discussed by Mr Valaiņš in the debate, so that I will not repeat. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U73	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U74	Submission of proposals for second reading by 5 p.m. on 31 October Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U75	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U76	See ‘Amendments to the Immigration Act’ in the draft law. The draft law removes the restrictions included in the transitional provisions of the Immigration Law regarding the application of the lump sum payment (EUR 5000) to foreigners who have ended their residence permit but who wish to request it again for another five-year period. The Commission has received information that the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission has examined this bill at its meeting but has not supported it. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) I am calling for the draft law to be approved at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U77	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 30, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U78	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 31 October at 5 p.m. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U79	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U80	See the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax””. This draft law has been drafted in connection with the amendments adopted in July 2017 to this law, which provides for a new object of gambling tax - card, dice and roulette tables, which are used for online gambling video with third parties. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U81	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Fees and Taxes”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U82	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. And watching - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U83	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U84	Next draft law - Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming. The grounds for including this draft law in the budget package are exactly the same as the previous draft law. This is related to changes in tax laws in Latvia, which were adopted in July 2017. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U85	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U86	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. And watching - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U87	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U88	We see the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. This draft law provides for the introduction of a special provision against tax evasion, which is applicable when the payer receives income from paid employment, which is not less than the national minimum monthly salary, but at the same time has an agreement with the employer on the payment of royalties. The draft law also provides for the establishment of a special procedure for paying tax on income from an investment account by deferring the payment of tax until the funds withdrawn from the account exceed the funds invested or the account is closed. The draft law also provides clarifications and clarifications regarding the introduction and application of progressive personal income tax rate. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U89	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U90	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October, second reading - 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U91	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U92	Amendments to the Account Register Act. This draft law provides for municipalities to be entitled to receive the information included in the register of accounts. The draft law also requires payment service providers as well as credit institutions to provide information to the account register about the new type of account – investment account – in accordance with the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax”. The draft law provides for a supplement to the obligation for payment service providers, credit institutions and credit institutions to report information on authorised persons to the account register. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U93	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Accounts”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U94	Proposals for the second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October, at the extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U95	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U96	Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. The draft law provides for the introduction of a reduced rate of value added tax of five per cent for the supply of fresh berries, fruit and vegetables. The reduced rate of value added tax on fresh fruit, berries and vegetables is planned to be introduced for a limited period until 31 December 2020 and may then be extended by analysis. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U97	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U98	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading - 31 October 2017 at 17.00, viewing - Parliamentary extraordinary meeting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U99	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U100	“Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”. The draft law provides for changes in the monthly salary scale due to changes in the minimum monthly salary from 380 to 430 euros, as well as increase and decoupling of judges' monthly salaries from the 12 month salary group. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U101	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 64, 27, abstaining - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U102	Submission of proposals for second reading by 17.00 on 31 October, viewing - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U103	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U104	Amendments to the Education Act. The proposed amendments to this law are designed to ensure, first and foremost, the implementation of the reform of the remuneration of teachers in the following aspects. The amendments provide for a social support programme for those pre-retirement educators who will be up to three years old and who will not continue working in another educational institution. Secondly, in order to ensure equal access to the distribution of state budget funds between different educational institutions under municipal authority, it is established that the remuneration of teachers is financed from the state budget, but the costs of maintaining boarding schools and special pre-school institutions are borne by the founder of the educational institution. And thirdly - determine the minimum number of learners in class and class group at municipal, state university and private general education institutions in order to determine state involvement in the financing of teachers' pay. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U105	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 37, abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U106	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U107	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U108	We are working on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media. The draft law provides for an annual fee for monitoring the implementation of the broadcasting authorisation rights, for re-registration of the re-broadcasting authorisation and for making changes to the broadcasting authorisation. The draft law is necessary in order to make the monitoring carried out by the NEEAP more effective, as well as to cover part of the expenditure of the NEEAP related to sector studies and the strengthening of supervisory functions by increasing the number of jobs in the Monitoring Unit and by outsourcing. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U110	Deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading - 31 October at 5 p.m. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U111	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U112	We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Roads”. This draft law provides for an increase in the funding allocated to the National Road Fund programme until the amount set out in Section 12, Paragraph Four of the Law on Roads is reached. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U113	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Roads”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 8, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U114	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U115	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U116	See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. The draft law provides for the regulation of the state budget revenue accounting according to the principle of accumulation and related implementation of the single tax account, as well as the establishment and maintenance of the common electronic working time accounting database and the application of the annual state fee to the electronic media in connection with the above-mentioned draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U117	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U118	Submission of the proposals for second reading by 5 p.m. on 31 October Seeing at second reading - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U119	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U120	We work with a new draft law – “Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”. I would like to say that the draft law at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) was the longest and most serious debate during which it was identified that it is very important for this draft law to reinforce the objective that this future law will have. The Commission supported the draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I also call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U121	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U122	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 31 October at 5 p.m. And viewing at second reading - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U123	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 5 p.m. on 31 October this year, and the sitting of the Saeima on 22 November this year. Honourable Members! Members Āboltiņa, Brigmanis, Dzintars, Adamovich and Gaidis Berzins ask for an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 25 October without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. So we will continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the agenda is examined.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U124	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions”. These amendments have been developed on the basis of the relevant point of the plan approved at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 28 February 2017 - Financial Sector Development Plan 2017-2019, which provides for an assessment of possibilities for reviewing the regulation of state funded pensions in order to promote investments in the capital market, including with regard to pension fund investment limits, timetables for changes of plans, fees of the managers' commission. Changes in commissions directly affect the active size of the state funded pension scheme and the level of future pensions of members. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U125	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U126	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U127	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U128	We are working on the draft law “Amendment to the Bronze Courts Law”. The draft law was designed to introduce a register of foster families from 1 September 2018, where orphan courts will be able to access data on foster families throughout Latvia by accelerating the entry of a child in the care of a foster family, not at a childcare facility. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U129	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Brunch Courts”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 93, against - 1, refrains - none. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U130	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U131	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 22 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U132	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”. The draft law was designed to introduce specialised foster families and regional support centres in Latvia from 1 July 2018 to provide support to non-family care providers - guardians, adopters, foster families. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U133	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U134	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U135	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U136	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”. This draft law specifies the norms on the beneficiaries of royalties. It is also related to the allocation of additional funding for the priority actions of the Ministry of Welfare, including the development of alternative forms of family care and measures related to the responsibilities of the foster family. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U137	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U138	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U139	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U140	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”. This draft law is designed to improve the family state benefits system and to provide from 2018 more financial support to families with several minor children, as well as to provide more support and opportunities for children in the care of the non-family to grow in the family environment. In particular, from 1 January 2018, it is planned to review the amounts of the remunerations for the care of the child to be adopted and the remunerations for the performance of the duties of the foster family. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U141	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U142	Proposals for second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October. Playing - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U143	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 5 p.m. on 31 October of this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U144	We're in budget law. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020 at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U145	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U146	Proposals for the second reading should be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October 2017. The draft law at second reading is due to be discussed at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U147	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year at 5 p.m. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U148	On behalf of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “On State Budget 2018”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U150	Proposals for the second reading should be submitted by 17.00 on 31 October 2017, and the second reading will take place in extraordinary session on 22 November 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U151	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 31 October this year at 17.00, parliamentary session - 22 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U152	Colleagues, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, thank you for supporting the draft budget and the accompanying package at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U153	Thank you to the rapporteur, on behalf of the Commission. Thank you to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Ministers present at the Saeima sitting. The order of business - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On the procedure (form) for submitting proposals for the 2018 national budget package”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U154	Colleagues! As in previous years, this year the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has supported the submission of proposals for second reading both for the 2018 budget and the medium-term budgetary framework in a given form. This is because it would make it easier and faster for technical staff to process these submitted proposals and to move them forward both for viewing in Saeima committees and for viewing in the Cabinet of Ministers. This form of submission does not differ from that of the previous year. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I invite you to support this draft decision on the procedure for submitting proposals for the 2018 national budget package.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U155	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the procedure (form) for the submission of proposals for the 2018 national budget package”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U156	Dear colleagues, This is a draft law tabled by representatives of all parliamentary groups. This applies to financial support for activities of members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia, presenting events that took place in our country, restoring independence. The provision of this financial assistance is provided from the resources of the Saeima. This does not impose any additional burden on the next year's budget or any change to it. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported this draft law at first reading. But first of all, I call for urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U157	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U158	On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U159	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Legal Status and Pensions of Members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U160	Proposals for the second reading of this draft law should also be submitted by 5 p.m. on 31 October, and viewing - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U161	Thank you. Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 17.00 this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting on 22 November this year. Dear colleagues, The agenda for the extraordinary sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our fellow Member Aija Barča, and we warmly welcome him! (Applause) Substitution: ‘How many and where?’ ) Thank you. Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U162	Hello, colleagues! Not registered: Andris Buiķis, Lolita Čigāne, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ainārs Mežulis, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-26-PT12-443-U163	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. On October 26th, we will start at 11:00, so in 15 minutes.
