ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the session of the Saeima on 16 November 2017. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and include in it the draft decision ‘On the approval of Solvitas Cīrule as a judge of a district (city) court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the draft decision on the approval of Aija Ilstere as a judge of district (city) court be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On approval of Natalia Zavadska as a judge of district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision on the approval of Andra Škutāns as a district (city) court judge to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No 1034/Lp12) until 24 November 2017. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Animal Feed Chain” be submitted to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Edward Smilten on 16 November this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Edward Smilten on 16 November this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Edward Smilten requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 16 November this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Honourable Members! The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the re-reading of the law. On the agenda - the law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power””. Dear colleagues, On 10 November this year, the President of Latvia has sent the Saeima for re-reading the law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” adopted by the Saeima on 2 November this year. The Legal Commission is responsible for this Law. According to the order of the Saeima, the Saeima must set a time limit for the submission of proposals, as well as the date when the law is re-examined at the sitting of the Saeima. Please turn on the microphone for Solvita Applet.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U2	The deadline for the submission of proposals - November 21, this year, and the review of the law in re-reading - January 18, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U3	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals - November 21st, consideration of the Saeima sitting - January 18th, 2018. Thank you. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Solvitas Cīrule as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 14 November, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Solvita Cīrule as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. On 4 December 2014 the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia (The Head of the Meeting knocked down with a hammer.) Solvita Cīrulis was appointed a judge of the district (city) court. The Council for the Judiciary, based on the law “On Judicial Power”, imposed on Solvita Cīrulis to perform duties of a judge in Ogres district court. On June 13, 2016 she began to perform the duties of a judge in the Riga City Pardaugava court (to the reorganisation - in the Riga City Zemgale suburb court). Solvita Cīrule has participated in 34 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia. Judge Solvita Cīrule views all categories of civil cases. Positive feedback from Ogres district court, Riga city Pārdaugava court, Riga regional court College of Criminal Cases and Riga regional court College of Civil Cases has been received about work of the judge. The Judicial Qualification Board has positively evaluated the professional activities of Solvita Cīrule, a judge of Riga city Pārdaugava court, and delivered a positive opinion for approval of Solvita Cīrule, a judge of Riga city Pārdaugava court, without any limitation of the term of office. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Solvita Cīrulis to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U5	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U6	Hello, brothers and sisters! It is pleasing that this judge is, in principle, more mature. Only, I see that the results of the examination of the judgments of this judge in the regional court... indicators for this judge, how much a similar judgment has been made, how much the judgment has been amended and how much the opposite judgment has been done compared with the average in our courts - as if these indicators are better because in our courts each judge's decision is challenged in almost every second case. I am now saying that this judge is, in fact, not useful, because we need to put the judicial system in order. And if we want to clean up, then taking people from the justice system, which has many, many problems, is not the best. Many colleagues point out to me: “Dear Government! By law, all judges under discussion are in compliance with the law.’ Their words are very truthful, for all things are judged by law, by documents, in our courts as well. If there's a document, it's all right! This was also demonstrated by the story of "Nothing Personal" about the trial of Estonian businessmen. We will deal with issues on the basis of documents. So I would like to point out that this judge does not meet the requirements of Article 51 of the Law on Judicial Power, namely that the judge should be a highly qualified and honest lawyer. Dear Members! There is no document here that this lawyer is honest! So, I'm sorry, so... And what else do I ask: dear lawyers, who judge, why are you discriminating against men? Why did you discriminate against men?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's good if 20 percent of the judges' candidates that we're asked to consider here are men. Why don't you like men? (Laughter, interns.) Yeah... I have a great request. Honorary lawyers, both Latvian residents and media indicate that our judiciary and judicial system is not in order. Now open that law! Let's get this thing fixed up!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U7	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U8	Here a rhetorical question must be asked: "Mr. Nanozol, why don't you like women?" However, if we look at the substance of this matter, I would like to remind you: a specific item on the agenda is the appointment of a specific judge. This time for approval without a time limit. All procedures have been followed. Both judicial self-government institutions, executive institutions as well as, according to law, a parliamentary institution – the Legal Commission – have evaluated the possibilities of this person to continue working in court in the position of a judge without a time limit. This was also assessed by the Commission. And, Mr. Nunozole, where were you when the entire parliament looked at the law “On Judicial Power”, which is exactly the law that precisely defines the various laws governing the judiciary? The legislator has the right to make the law in such a way as to be in the public interest. It is also our responsibility for the public to entrust itself to the judiciary. I did not expect your proposals there somehow. Instead, you once again take the opportunity to say that you don't like women. Well, of course, I accept this displeasure from you, but I nevertheless call for constructiveness, to read the Rules of Procedure again, to follow it and to discuss the substance of the matter. I call for support to be given to this draft decision on the approval of the particular judge, Solvita Cīrule, as a district (city) judge.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U9	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U10	I would like to say that the candidacy of Solvita Cīrula has been very carefully and comprehensively evaluated by the Commission, and I call for support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Solvitas Cīrule as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the approval of Aija Ilstere as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U12	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 14 November, a draft decision on the approval of Aija Ilstere as a judge of a district (city) court was considered. On January 15, 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Aija Ilsteri as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered Aija Ilstere to perform the duties of a judge in Riga district court. Aija Ilstere has participated in 20 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia for her qualification. The judge sees all types of civil cases, as well as (please quote) “Latvian APK complaints about decisions of the institution”. Positive comments have been received about work of the judge from Riga district court, Riga regional court committee of the Criminal Court and Riga regional court college of the Civil Cases. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of Aija Ilstere, a judge of Riga district court, and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of Aija Ilstere, a judge of Riga district court, without any limitation of the term of office. In this context, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Aija Ilsteri to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U13	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U14	Hello! I want you, Members, to open the window on her CV and on the outcome of her judgments in administrative infringement cases. The decision was annulled in full - in the first half of 2017 30 percent... 33 percent of cases. Every third decision made by this judge has been revoked at the highest instance! So what can we talk about? We want to sort out the justice system. And you, Solvita Āboltiņa, in my opinion, were yelling as Members - you state that we can submit proposals to the Law on Judicial Power by 21 November... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “You can only dive yourself!” ) Until November 21, normal preparation of amendments to the law “On Judicial Power” is very difficult, yes! So I repeat, I do this. S. Āboltiņa: “Stop laughing about yourself and the parliament!” )... there is also no document in the case of that judge certifying that that judge is a fair lawyer. If you smile at this term, then why have you, lawyers, put so strange wording into law... Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “Why are we women?” ) Yes! And again, Solvita Aboltina! Why don't you like men? Why don't you like the judge to be a man? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovics: “She didn’t say that!” ) Why are you doing your best to ensure that most judges are women? Yes! Request: Dear friends lawyers, we arrange the court system! It is not my question; all our people say: there are problems in the judicial system! Media points out that there are problems in the judicial system! And forgive ye, ye have groaned both for the people and for the media.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U15	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U16	This time I have to admit that I like men! (Laughter) Thank you very much. But when it comes to gender equality in any profession, including the profession of a politician and a judge, it is a very serious topic with which both the parliament and the executive work. And maybe you noticed, Mr. Nunozole: yesterday too, there was a campaign that talked about it - about diversity for people and the opportunity for them to work. The story of women and discrimination against women in Latvia is no surprise either. Unfortunately, women are also discriminated against in Latvia. Of course, in the various women's fora that talk about equality between women, we are happy to call this figure, we are talking about the many women entrepreneurs, we are talking about those women in politics that, unfortunately, are already in a smaller number. We also point out that judges of the Supreme Court are mostly women. Search for these causes, not for women! This is a question that the politician should fight about: gender equality in any profession, including the profession of a judge, rather than attacking one or the other sex.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U17	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! What's going on here, okay? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Apple: “Tirk!” ) A slot has been found (interfaces.) In the order of the Saeima to open any round table discussions, right? And, above all, that man, Aija Ilster, will then have to be judged! We're talking about some kind of gender equality here, and it sounds like a full-month night conversation. There's a parliament here or what? I think there are simply certain procedures: if a parliament approves judges, then it confirms rather than arranges another circus show for a particular judge. What will he then think for the rest of his life? It's the most important moment in his life. He finally becomes a judge approved by Parliament. But he gets the stories of Kalnozol and the stories of Solvita Āboltiņa about gender equality. I think I'm a nightmare. I really think it would be better if the President of Latvia had appointed them, and peace, rather than we're going to be here... Come on, Waldie, come on! It's some nightmare you're doing!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U19	I have to give the floor to Member Valdis Kalnozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U20	Dear friend Ringold! I'm just... I'll tell you, the nightmare is in the courts, not here!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U21	The debate has not yet been closed. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U22	Good morning, everybody! From the beginning, some six months ago, I thought you, Waldie, were just kidding. Do you understand? That's such a joke. But now I think you may be sick. It's real. This is not the place to solve your problems. Dear name! Mr. Brigmann, collect, please, Valdis Kalnozols! Take that card away from him! What's going on here? Mr Baloža said everything exactly. This is the most important decision for the judge. And what's going on here? What kind of men? What women? You're the last time you hit your wife? What are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please, let's go in accordance with the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U23	I closed the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Latkovsky: “The sitting must be conducted!” ) Name of Member Alexander Jakikov on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U24	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U25	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Aija Ilstere as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Natalia Zavadska as a judge of district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U26	The draft decision “On the approval of Natalia Zavadska as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 14 November. On January 15, 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Natalija Zavadska as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary imposed on Natalija Zavadska the duties of a judge in Riga district court. Natālija Zavadska has participated in 16 seminars of the Latvian Judicial Training Centre to improve her qualification. The judge looks at all types of civil cases. Positive feedback from Riga district court, Riga regional court board of Civil Cases has been received about work of the judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of Riga district court judge Natālija Zavadska and has given a positive opinion for her approval in her post without any limitation of the term of office. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Natalija Zavadska to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U27	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U28	Dear, best paid actors in Latvia! I represent the interests of the people... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Kalnozols continues to speak at the same time as the Chair of the sitting.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U29	I recall that the draft decision on the approval of Natalia Zavadsk as a judge of district (city) court is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U30	... which is also indicated by the media. A great, great request to take account of the fact that, at this point, I am speaking as a representative of the interests of the citizens. Those of us who point out that there are significant problems in our judicial system. In particular, with regard to this Judge, please open the documents annexed to the draft decision. First of all, I do not understand why the data on her age and so on have not been given. And next, most important. Read the results of the examination of decisions in civil regional court! In 2017, her decisions were completely repealed by 42.9 percent of cases. I am referring to the cases of this particular judge. This means that they do not work well. Please arrange this court system and don't make me here!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U31	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U32	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Natalia Zavadska as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Andra Škutāns as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U34	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 14 November, the draft decision “On the approval of Andra Škutāns as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. On 4 December 2014, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Andris Škutāns as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered Andris Škutans to perform duties of a judge in Dobele district court. On 6 September 2016, the Council for the Judiciary, on the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, instructed Andris Škutans to perform the duties of a judge of Jelgava court during the temporary absence of a judge. Andris Škutāns has participated in 14 seminars of the Latvian Judicial Training Centre to improve his qualification. The judge looks at criminal cases and administrative violation materials. Positive feedback from Dobele district court, Jelgava court and Zemgale regional court has been received about work of the judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of the judge of Dobele district court Andra Škutāns and delivered a positive opinion to approve the position of the judge of Dobele district court Andra Škutāns without limitation of the term of office. In this context, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Andris Škutāns to confirm his appointment as a district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U35	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We don’t really have a meeting at the Saeima?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U36	Dear colleagues! I say to you once again: until citizens think like Denmark - that 'our judiciary is the best' - I will come here and debate every judge. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “But this is a man!” ) And you don’t have to be offended about it and perceive it personally. I am very pleased that, compared to the previous judge... in box 8, ‘completely set aside’ shall be zero. Very nice! But, dear lawyers, if you've done... created our judicial system, not by nature, but by document, then please arrange either law or attach a document that this honourable gentleman is an honest lawyer! If you think it's absurd, change the word of honor! - laws! Do not make such silly laws as to be honest. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U37	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U38	Dear colleagues, Although it is stated from this troupe that there was a debate on each judge at the Legal Commission, questions were also asked about these quality indicators, about the contested judgments. The columns quoted by Mr. Nunozole contain data on the 2017 judgments, whose appeal in the highest instances... These cases have not yet arrived before the Supreme Court, therefore often first instance court, regional court and later the Supreme Court can look at the circumstances of specific cases, because cases have not yet been judged at the final instance. All the judges, all four, members of the commission unanimously, no one opposed - neither abstained nor voted against. And on behalf of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, I would like to apologise to each of these four judges for what had to be experienced in this decision. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues! I call on these judges to vote in favour. And if anyone has doubts or wants to see the celebration of the Legal Commission, I kindly invite you to attend the sittings of the Commission and see how we decide on the Legal Commission, or to become a member of the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U39	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U40	I call on our citizens to apologise, who believe that our justice system is one of the worst. I also call for my apologies to Mr Borovkov, who says that our judicial system is far from it. I have a great request not to be ashamed of someone who is trying to put our justice system in order and to be right there.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U41	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U42	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U43	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Andra Škutāns as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U45	On the agenda - processing Members' requests. Request by Members Juris Viļuma, Ivars Brīvers, Silvia Šimfas, Arvīds Platopera, Vara Krūmiņa, Rihards Melgailis, Aivars Meija, Artuss Neimina, Edwards Smiltēna and Mārtiņš Šics to Prime Minister Māris Kučinskis “On raising the minimum wage”. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U46	Good morning, colleagues! The Panel examined the request made by Members Juris Viļuma, Ivars Brīvers, Sylvia Simfas and other Members to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis for raising the minimum wage. The nature of the request will hopefully be more highlighted by the applicants. A debate was held at the Commission meeting. And the question was mainly about the situation in Latgale. Latgale businessman was also invited. At the Commission meeting, there were differences of views, but the majority decided to reject this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U47	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U48	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Given that, over the last few weeks, there has been enough ambition from ministerial officials and from some politicians on this request (and they have been based on sentences drawn from the general context), and also given that some media have allowed stories to be made in the best face news style, I will use this time and will once again briefly tell you the substance of the request and also the general context in which the request was signed by 10 Members. Right now, this request was made because we hoped to draw the attention of the coalition... Even though I can now see that other discussions are more important for them. Of course, we also hoped to draw the attention of the government, because now that the parliament is looking at the budget, we can still correct, let us say, the tragic situation. ( Milestones.) Let's start with it... Even before tax reform was established, I remember meeting with the then Prime Minister, Ms Straujuma, within the framework of the Baltic Assembly, and Mr Adamson pointed out... called for the tax reform to focus on what the tax system is in our immediate neighbourhood, Lithuania and Estonia. In Estonia, the unlimited minimum next year will be 500 euros, in Lithuania - about 400 euros. In Latvia, the unlimited minimum will be built only up to 200 euros. In 2020, we hope to reach 250. This means that in this indicator we will only reach half of Estonia's current level after three years. It can be said that the authors of the request are calling for a more detailed study of the experience of our closest neighbours, as it will happen that in Lithuania and Estonia even in the case of lower gross (or paper) wages citizens will receive a higher net (or hand) salary than in Latvia. In particular, people living in the border area will see and feel it, as they will be able to ask a neighbor, or a person living next to him, what pay he has and how much tax burden he has. Entrepreneurs have estimated that at present in Latvia, for example, in order for an employee to receive 1000 euros “on hand”, the total amount of the employee’s and employer’s taxes is one of the largest, if not the largest, in the European Union. Latvia's tax reform and next year's budget authors have not taken into account the huge regional differences in our country. Unemployment rates may vary up to three times. The average wage - as Mr Platoper has already said in a strong way when we looked at the budget at first reading - may differ twice. Gross domestic product, both in Zemgale and Vidzeme, is far behind European averages. The situation with gross domestic product per capita is all the more tragic that we know the catastrophic migration rates of recent years. The depopulation of our country in certain regions, in some areas, is actually greater than during the world war. The government, while continuing to ignore some of the dry statistical indicators, which, by the way, do not yet show the reality, is trying to pretend that Latvia is an equally economically developed territory, and offers one pace for increasing tax revenues both in Riga and in the farthest border of the country. Given the unequal starting positions, the end result will be that we will get even more gap. At present, national economic and tax policies are suitable for the capital and more developed regions of Pieriga, ignoring regional differences. Tax policy, the State Employment Agency and the strategy of educational institutions do not create the conditions for regional economic growth. People don't want to hope forever for some pilot projects, special support programmes, new government experiments. In rural areas, the aim of people living there is not to survive at the expense of the richest areas or at the expense of the equalisation fund. Both ordinary people and entrepreneurs want to work and stay on their home side and, of course, get a decent salary for the work they have done so that they can support their family. I would remind you that much of Latvia's territory currently has a huge risk of poverty. And this is also demonstrated by data from the Ministry of Finance that in certain statistical regions more than 30 per cent already receives a salary equal to or less than the minimum wage currently set. In other words, when we raise the minimum wage, the income of a person on the hand will unfortunately not increase. The officials of the Ministry of Finance understand this, and therefore, I must say, cynically said to the businessmen: “Well, do the same as until now! Reduce the load, reduce the number of hours worked on paper and pay the same salary as before!” The statement by the representatives of the government... Well, I already told this system... This is unacceptable. And in no case will this overall increase purchasing power in regions where the minimum wage is simply impossible to raise, because the company's profits are no higher than one-two percent. The essence of the request is to seek solutions to reduce regional inequalities and to prevent unemployment in one of the territories of Latvia from exceeding 10 percent. As I said, in certain territories for years, for decades it is three times larger than in Riga. First of all, in relation to this request, it is necessary to emphasise the increase of the unlimited minimum. World practice shows that this should be about half of the average wage in the economy - that is, around the level of Lithuania and Estonia - about the size of the government's minimum wage. And then, gradually raising the minimum wage. Mr Kučinski and Mrs Reizniece-Ozola themselves have repeatedly said that they support it and they would agree to it. They bring the blame to the social partners and entrepreneurs who want stability and bring about an immediate €50... I have said a number of times: maybe then we are going for 150 euros at once and we are not changing for 10 years. This argument does not stand criticism. We cannot now raise one indicator so quickly, but the others are only gradually drawn. You are both well aware that the number of employees in the state apparatus is also planned to be reduced by only two per cent per year, i.e. by six per cent in three years. What is the most important thing? The authors of the request, after consulting and hearing the views of economic operators in the various regions, call for a systematic approach, not on the fight against the consequences, but on the fight against the causes. That is the truth that is known all over the world. Unfortunately, this is something we do not want to notice in our own country. Of course, raising an inequitable minimum can have an impact on the budget... the municipal budgets. However, I think it is sometimes important to make a painful decision in the short term so that, in the long term, we can get out of the pit where the rural regions of Latvia are currently slipping. Inequality between Riga, Perry and the whole border is just crazy. ( Milestones.) So I repeat: we are calling for an assessment of the increase in the non-negotiable minimum. This would allow wage pay to be gradually raised on paper, which citizens never see. I have already mentioned the example of Lithuania and Estonia. The government promises higher wages for the population through the media, but requires the fulfilment of its promises from the employer - the entrepreneur - and from the municipal budget. I will also remind you that Article 107 of the Satversme states: “Every employee has the right to receive appropriate remuneration for the work performed, which is not less than the minimum set by the State [...]” Once again, I am in favour of the employee receiving more “on hand” or the net than the government expects, because now in Latvia the situation will be very unfair, very unfair and very unequal if we compare it with Lithuania and Estonia, even if we compare it with our neighbours. In conclusion, given that my speaking time is running out, I can of course also answer Mr Adamovich's statements, but I have responded to them before. Please listen carefully or read the entire request carefully once again. Unfortunately, the territory of Latvia within the framework of tax reform and the new budget is, in my opinion and in many opinion, being purposefully exempted from the population. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovics: “Who else thinks so?” ) Some try to speculate on this by saying that it is in the interests of either NATO or Russia. Unfortunately, depopulation and migration from the regions are the biggest problem for our country. This is not in the interests of our country, because they are security risks and so on. I am just calling on every politician, every party to evaluate and view current statistical indicators, to talk to his colleagues in the party and, at least in the context of the next parliamentary elections, to incorporate into their pre-election programmes proposals and ideas how to reduce regional inequalities and to ensure that people in different regions receive equal pay for their work. More. To what has been said forever, to work together, to listen to the proposals, I can answer the fact that neither Mr Kučinski nor any of the ministers came to the Commission on the request when this issue was examined. Officials were sent, and in essence the matter was pushed into a deep drawer. We must all stand for justice and fairness, for the well-being of all Latvians. You will agree that everyone in Latvia, every worker has the right to be properly remunerated in Latvia for his or her work. Our common goal must be that we can achieve a fair and business-friendly tax system throughout the country, not only in Riga and Pierīga, and that there is a secure environment, as well as a steady development of the country and all regions. Once again, I would like to point out to those who are trying to draw one sentence from the demand, saying that, here, Viļums wants to reduce the minimum wage: I call for an inexcusable minimum, and this would enable us to gradually raise the amount we temporarily demand from both the worker and the employer, including taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U49	Thank you. The name of Member John Tutin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U50	Good morning, honourable colleagues! With regard to this request, I am not going to give out certain words, but I am going to talk about all three points of request. It is not understandable why the authors of the request want to make the residents of Latgale practically the lower class. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) If you live and work in Latgale, do you have a much lower salary than in the rest of the country? It will further stimulate moving away to better paid regions and other countries, make even more empty cities and rural areas and make the Latgale population even poorer. In particular, this document requires, with regard to the population of the region: the first. Abolish the increase in the minimum wage or at least prevent an increase in the minimum wage of more than EUR 20 per year. That's right? That's right! We agree that raising the minimum wage from EUR 380 to EUR 430 is a rapid rise, but it has been fixed for three years. So, in practice, this year's rise will be 17 euros. More! The level of the minimum wage is a sign of the social well-being of the people of the country. To raise the minimum wage, citizens will receive more in their masks and will also be able to afford more. Second. Introduce an exempt minimum of at least 430 euros with personal income tax. How's that? An insurable minimum wage higher than the minimum wage? The authors of this request are already indirectly in favour of raising the minimum wage to EUR 430. And why is it that only the Latgale region offers such an inequitable minimum to the population? Why is such an unlimited minimum not required for pensioners, families with children and other vulnerable groups throughout the country? Third. Ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in cooperation with Latgale Planning Region and entrepreneurs to agree on rapid business development activities, including the creation of a Business Development Fund in Latgale Plan 2010-2030, in order to prevent the total destruction of industry in Latgale. Colleagues! Supporting entrepreneurship and stimulating the economy would require specific mechanisms that need to be put in place, such as subsidies in various ways, more favourable rules in procurement, various tax incentives, support for and development of business ideas, various incentives and bonuses for business development and job creation in border regions and so on, and so on. These would already be concrete steps to support entrepreneurship and promote the economy in Latgale. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “It’s the same!” ) Frakcija SASKĀJA will not take part in the vote on the request of Member Juris Viļuma, Ivars Brīvers, Silvia Šimfas, Arvīds Platopera, Vara Krūmiņa, Rihards Melgailis, Aivars Meija, Artuss Neimina, Edwards Smiltēns and Mārtiņš Šics to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “For raising the minimum wage” and believes that this is essentially absurd and simply silly, as the people of Latvia one region (i.e. Latgale) are required to have a much lower minimum wage than in the country as a whole. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Viļums: “You didn’t even come to the sitting!” ) That is wrong! Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U51	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U52	Hello, brothers and sisters! I would like to express the opinion of the person who is an entrepreneur who has created thousands of jobs, who knows how to earn a million, who has created jobs not only in Latvia but also abroad, has exported his services and knows what labour market is in Latvia, Germany, Russia, Norway, Greece and others. The problem of our country's economy... I would like to say that the biggest problem for entrepreneurs is that there is no one who buys their products, namely their low turnover. And the other problem is the lack of manpower. Although we say that we have unemployment, there is, in fact, a lack of good, high-quality jobs. And what do I want to point out to Mr Viļuma? For example, in Scandinavian countries high purchasing power is specifically maintained as a driving force for the economy. This means that if our citizens have enough money, then they will be able to buy food from the same Latgale entrepreneur. And, Mr. Viļuma, we're both connected to Dougda. You know well that Dagda “Rimi” products are more expensive and less quality than in the center of Riga just because there is much lower turnover. And in order for an entrepreneur to recover his profits, he has to put higher, higher expenditures. So the problem is in circulation. And what else do I want to ask the other Members to think about? Why are wages in Germany, Denmark and other European countries three times higher than for us, but the prices of goods in stores are either the same or lower? There's nothing to do with this... I fully join the Prime Minister in saying that EUR 1000 is the sum of what our people who have gone abroad to earn the minimum subsistence that they would return. And there is no question just about the survival of the people. These more than 370 thousand people would be buyers of our milk, bread and products of the same Latgale farmer. And what else, Mr Viļuma, I would like to point out as an entrepreneur who has actually worked, raised wages between 1992 and the following years. Higher wages are an incentive to focus on labour productivity, and to think about how to organise work so that it is not idle. At present, low wages do not encourage entrepreneurs to think about work organisation. They just take people, and they do something. And then wonder why there is so much cost. What else can I tell you, Mr. Viļuma? If a businessman wants to remain competitive, he can raise his salary to a very minimum. If he raises his employee's salary more than a competitor, his output will not be competitive. So I fully agree with the Prime Minister that wage increases must be made in the country as a whole. We, every businessman, cannot lift it up if we want to remain competitive. And a manly wage is one of the basic things for the survival of our people. Yes! I fully agree with the fact that the European Union is not interested in us paying a decent salary here in Latvia. Why? That's why... If we had kept our lats, raising wages would lead to inflation. We now have the euro, and if we raise our salary, inflation is the euro and the European Union. And I think it would only be fair to our citizens - to raise this minimum to human dignity. And, secondly, in the European Union, our wage growth is not going to have any impact on the euro rate. I also fully agree... But on one point I agree with you, Mr. Viļuma! The minimum wage must also be raised. ( Interface: “It’s already under way! ” ) This is also being done. ( The grass laughs.) That is what we agree with, yes! So I want to emphasise once again: the main problem for our entrepreneurs is the small market, the small number of customers, the purchasing power of customers. If we had a much higher purchasing power, these 370 thousand people would return to life. And one of the steps to build our economy is a man-made minimum wage and an inexcusable minimum.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U53	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U54	Hello, colleagues! A great deal of contradictions to what the first speaker, Mr Viļuma, said. Talking about all the figures that are, of course, beneficial to him at this point, but not talking about the fact that in Estonia the minimum wage is EUR 470, is not talking about the fact that an inexpensive minimum, as Viļuma has already said... Mr Kalnozol has just been built - it is being built gradually, so as far as we can afford it right now. Mr. Viļuma! Currently, in Latvia, the minimum wage is the third lowest in the European Union. Only Romania and Bulgaria are under us. Controversies, of course! People leave, but we don't move the minimum wage. That's funny! I think the salary is great, Mr. Viļuma, but now go to the countryside once, talk to you, I don't know, the owner of the farm, ask him for what salary he can hire a reliable agricultural technician... mechanizers that are one of the lowest categories in the Profession Classification! Then you will understand - it's a minimum wage once two, once three right now. It must be understood that it is not, of course, in my interests or those of others that Latvia should be a labour paradise for other foreign companies for a long time. I want Latvia to be a country where people receive a decent salary. And at this moment, raising or not raising the minimum wage... well, it's 50 euros, but yet it's something for those people who have long received this minimum wage to get much more. You talked about profit indicators. You know exactly how UIN is: the gap is now seven percent... for a rate of 15 per cent. This means that about half are lost or written off in different ways... And at this point, raising a minimum wage will be nothing more than a populist slogan: saving those who may have promised foreign customers to take part in some of the lower costs. Those women who sew there in Latgale - they also deserve a decent salary, not a very many hours for a minimum wage, and hope that they will also receive a minimum wage. And at this point, we must talk about the need to look for other instruments to promote this development in Latgale. It must be said that the above-mentioned statistical funds for payments in the statistical regions should be set up with different aid intensities. In Latgale, of course, the intensity of this support could be the highest, as GDP is the lowest in Latvia compared to the other statistical regions. It will be a carrot that needs to be intensively searched. And it is possible that when the national programme for the financing of municipalities is renewed, that additional support points should be given precisely to the Latgale region. But at the moment, it is not just the Latgale region. There is also an identical situation in Kurzeme, such as Vaiņode, Rucava. But they think how to work further, how to raise progressivity, how to continue your growth also under certain game conditions. They are clearly aware that EUR 430 (it has also been said by the government)... but in the next three years this number is not touched. It is also, in a way, stability. Let us reject this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U55	Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U56	Some comments on the above themes. First of all, Mr Putra's minimum wage in Estonia is EUR 470. You understand that already today the businessman pays the same amount in Latvia – 470, but the person "on hand" gets much less than in Estonia, because in Latvia the non-taxable minimum will be 200 from next year and in Estonia – 500. That is what I have said, and I can repeat it once again. When I talked about the nature of the demand and the situation in Latvia, Mr Putra and Mr Tutina, I did not mention Latgale once in my speech. Not once! If you want to, listen again to the audio recording. And we also based our request, of course, on the negotiations with businessmen in Latgale. By the way, Mr. Tutin was present, and the audio record can be found. I'm just... I'll bring you and I'll give you, Mr. Tutin, the audio recording where you were here, together with the businessmen you talked and said, "What are we? We are already in opposition, and its great position cannot do anything." But okay. A few more points. Mr Tutina himself said that there was a need for various tax incentives. But the nature of the demand is exactly that. Here, as once, Mr Tutin, you are coming in opposition. You criticise that the authors of the request call for the tax system to sort out regional inequalities, but at the same time you offer the same. It is by nature the purest demagogy. The call is to look at the situation. That's right, Mr. Tutin. Unfortunately, the situation has not been assessed and the demand has not been assessed either. Because, as I said, neither the Prime Minister nor any of the ministers came to the Request Commission. The authors of the demand want people in certain regions to be regarded as a lower class. That's the other way around. We call for your attention to be drawn to the fact that government policy has been in place for years... has led to people being considered as second-class people in the regions. Schools are closed there, they are invited to go at least to the big cities of their region, but of course, when a person leaves his home country, his home, does not go to the nearest city, he leaves the whole region. He's going to Dublin or at best to Riga. Mr. Nunozole mentioned that he was an entrepreneur. I have a question for you all. Please raise your hand, which is entrepreneurs now or have been in the past! Please, raise your hand! One, two, three... Mr. Nunozol, you were an entrepreneur, too!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U57	Don't talk to the grass! Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U58	I'm not talking, I'm just asking a question. Less than ten raised his hand. Less than ten of a hundred. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “No one listens to you!” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “You can’t hear what you’re saying!” ) Are you not? And you're telling me you understand what the businessman says. Unfortunately, I am concerned that you do not understand. It is easier, of course, to try, as I said, to stick to one sentence and to add up populist slogans that we do not support anything that could make the situation in the regions worse. But it was we who took it - and I personally took it! - this difficult and, as you can see, unthankful burden - to call for a discussion, to negotiations, to an analysis of the situation, not just: 'We're for more wages!' Yes, we will increase the salaries on paper, but the population in the regions will not get more, and some people will, unfortunately, lose their jobs, because the businessman will be forced to choose from them, for example, five of the workers he now has, one must be laid off. Four will stay and receive higher wages, but one will remain unemployed (he will, of course, receive a state allowance). And which of those five will it be? It'll be such a Russian roulette!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U59	Name of Member Līga Kozlovsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U60	Dear Members, Dear Mr. Viļuma and my fellow Members who have tabled this proposal within the Panel of Petitions. I also took the floor in the Commission of Petitions with my comment, denying this proposal. Why? I'm from Latgale myself. I can say I know people on my side. And I would like to say that the people of Latgale do not deserve discriminatory treatment through this reduction in the minimum wage, because colleagues' offer to the people of Latgale demands this exactly. Latgale residents deserve the same minimum wage as all Latvians. However, since Latgale is really in a very special socio-economic situation, we in Latvia must help - in the best sense! - with bonus systems. And I also made very specific proposals in the Commission of Petitions, which called for naturally, also such as storm waves. We don’t have to be like that saying – “Latvian Latvian Latvian”. In some way, we are envious enough and we are indestructible. For those who live worse or more in poverty or more in poverty... And here we must not only give the support programmes offered by the projects; we must give the system of rural support coefficients - the one in Finland in relation to Lex and the one in America in relation to Alaska - so that people can live there simply. And this system of coefficients must be appropriate not only to our entrepreneurs, but also to our teachers, to our doctors, to all those who, thank God, still live in Latgale. Let's give it extra, not take it off! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U61	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U62	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Well, at times, because it's strange to listen to what our Latgale colleagues, the Members elected from Latgale, say, that you can't see that you can raise the minimum wage... Something strange looks like that. Let us remember that in this House we decided to create Latgale Special Economic Zone! And only in this way - by developing entrepreneurship, creating jobs - will we ensure that people will live in Latgale. By creating a competitive wage, we will ensure that people will not travel away from Latgale to big cities or abroad. Only by developing entrepreneurship will we ensure regional growth. And it's really weird... I'll get... Mr Viļuma has already said several times that no one stands for an increase in the minimum wage. In particular, in your request, the first point is "to abolish the increase in the minimum wage or, at least, to prevent an increase in the minimum wage of more than EUR 20 per year". So it is clearly and easily written in your request. And it has been signed by a Member who made a solemn promise from this troupe in latgalian form, and it has been signed by a Member who defends the interests of Latgale. That's funny! I believe that the people living in Latgale are exactly the same as in the rest of Latvia and they do not deserve a lower salary than elsewhere else. Thank you. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U63	The name of the Member, Janis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U64	Hello, colleagues! Perhaps this proposal was a very ambitious and ambitious objective. But the first reaction, which is still undisturbed... In comparison, it is as it happened in the United States and Canada: let's make a reservation in Latgale or in the remote regions of Latvia, import firewater, provide bread and food, and we will also grant self-determination. This is a false step, a false vision of how to achieve the goals you may want! We have a law on Latgale Special Economic Zone. But this summer, adopting the new tax concept, the law on the special economic zone of Latgale loses some meaning for this zone. The main benefit for economic operators was that the reinvested profits are not taxed. So we should open the law of Latgale Special Economic Zone and think about how to stimulate not only in Latgale, but, as Mr Putra said, entrepreneurs in Vainadas would also dare to carry out larger projects and organise knowledge-based business. But how can you do that? There are two universities in Latgale region – Daugavpils University and Rezekne Academy of Technologies. We have to think about strengthening these universities, think about the programmes that young people are learning there, and how they can then become not only employees, but also actually entrepreneurs and organizers. And when it comes to universities, certain regions should develop universities as centres of science. Let us look for ways to develop regions, but let us not make exceptions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U65	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U66	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Indeed, some entrepreneurs had asked for the minimum wage to be broken down by year. But I think that the more than 30,000 people who live in Latgale and receive the minimum wage will be very pleased, because they will have a real increase "on hand" with an increased unobservable minimum and an increase in the minimum wage, and there will be about EUR 58 every month next year. I therefore call on you not to support Mr Viļuma's and other Members' request to raise the minimum wage by just about EUR 18. About 70 percent of the recipients of the minimum wage in Latgale work in state and municipal institutions. And I will call and ask both local government leaders and, of course, heads of state institutions and branches working in Latgale to respect the raising of minimum wages. In principle, EUR 58 per month is about half of the monthly heating costs for people living in apartment homes and paying for heating during the winter months. So that I call for this request not to be supported. We have already stated that next year the minimum wage will be 430 euros before tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U67	Name to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U68	Dear Saeima! Of course, some entrepreneurs may have additional problems, but we need to think a little differently about how to help them. Rather than abolishing the minimum wage, we need to think about how to help the country. As a former school director, I don't even understand the authors. What can we tell those people who work in schools, hospitals... Is that so? The previous speaker described how many people receive the minimum wage in Latgale at all. It is hard to understand what the authors thought. Of course, I will also ask for my own part not to support this request. We cannot say that people in Latgale are different from all the rest of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U69	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U70	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! I am listening and I do not understand whether all those who speak really understand what this proposal is about. ( Internouncing call.) There is no saying here that Latgale has been discriminated against. Oh, God! Juris Viļums and I - we are those who have their roots in Latgale. Of course, it would be hugely wrong - to set some different minimum wages for Latgale and the rest of Latvia. It's not about Latgale, it's about... Go to Kurzeme, go to those places that are off the big roads! There is this problem everywhere - well, not everywhere, but almost in all the small municipalities - that those entrepreneurs who work there are just drawing their lives. And this is not just about entrepreneurs. First of all, people... I remember Mr. Adamovich on television saying: “There, in small municipalities... What do they need for?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Make them go to Daugavpils (Dep. A. Adamovics: “I didn’t say that! Lies!’ ), to the big centres!” So, here's our concern, first of all, that's just those little ones (inter-speakers.) the municipalities. For Latvia... ( Internouncing call.) Could I ask you not to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U71	Keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U72	So the problem for Latvia is that the rural environment is empty. The countryside is empty! So that here again write development programmes - there promote, support, promote... That's how it's been all those 20 years... You see, only on paper support for Latgale has always been. Split by year... So now it's going to rise by 50... which means, on average, on 17... here's the 30 thousand people who now receive the minimum wage, how will they live for three years? Dear friends! Economic Law. Of these, 30 thousand may not, I do not know, half or how much no salary will be paid at all. Yeah... So these companies in these small municipalities... There in general, the entrepreneur will now think: “May I go to Daugavpils or work for the minimum wage on Preiļi instead of fighting here?” Well, I won't ask you to raise your hands for those who have been in these companies, but I've been... And here's an example. Imagine a little hotel, four people. And if I ask the girl who works there, if she is satisfied with her salary, or if she doesn’t want to get more, she will say, “I’m enough!” But she understands, she sees where that money comes from. And she will say, “If I ask you to raise my salary, the hotel owner will say, “OK, then we are going to hard our hotel, I will go somewhere to work for the minimum wage!” ‘.’ So here again - in words, as they say, develop, support... Here... So that's... And more. What says that 70 percent of those receiving the minimum wage work in public institutions? In the municipality of Latgale, too, one Member told me (Dep. A. Adamovics: “Who?” ) that the only persons who receive salaries there (Dep. A. Adamovics: “Who?” ) are those working in the municipality. ( Internouncing call.) Mr. Adamovich! Then I will explain to you. Please! Now, if you ask me questions here, then... Maybe then do it! So please don't mix here, sorry, peas with apples, as one representative of the government said yesterday. This is not just about Latgale. This is about Latvia as a whole. From this platform I have sworn to defend the sovereignty of Latvia. And if only Riga remains in Latvia and the park around Riga, it will no longer be Latvia. Therefore, I am part of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, because one of its main priorities is to avoid that only Riga, Daugavpils, Ventspils and Tukums are located in Latvia. And so these unneeded little municipalities, we must warn them. I strongly opposed it. I already understand that the minimum wage will be raised. But you will see the consequences. Remind my words! Three years later, of those 30 thousand who now receive the minimum wage in Latgale, 10 thousand will have left Latvia, 10 thousand will have gone to Daugavpils, Preili... rather to Riga, and the rest of the 10,000 will wait happy for their old age. Once again, I stress that mixing these things together is, in my opinion, ignorance, ignorance of the economy. What's the minimum job then... Okay, if you take care of the people of Latvia, then why raise about 50? Why don't you raise... How did you say, Mr. Nunozol? What is the minimum wage in Germany? 1000 euros, huh? So let's set a minimum wage of EUR 1000! Maybe it's better 2000. Let us be the richest country in Europe. If you think it can raise your standard of living. ( Interface: “Populism! ”) ) I will not start using such words as “populism” and so on, but the minimum wage is the purest populism in the hands of politicians, and in this way you will not raise the standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U73	Thank you, Mr. Freeer. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the inter-descriptions during the sittings of the Saeima are permitted and are determined by Article 71 of the parliamentary roll. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “I know!” ) So we shall continue the debate. Mrs. Schiffe, are you going to have a debate with 10 minutes? We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U74	Hello, honourable colleagues! Dear colleagues, I have such a strange feeling, because for the first time in public and at such a high level, I was called a fool as a signatory of this request. But in this case, this term does not offend me. Rather, I perceive it as... maybe not as a medal, but in no case is it a negative assessment. Because sometimes it is important to put a joker hat on the back of a thing so that it can move from place to place. We know that in the courts jokers who had a special mark in their head and a costume in their back were considered fools. But these fools told the king the truth. It was a fool in the king’s court who said, “King, you’re naked!” And I think that such a discussion, which is currently being developed for us on the development of these regions, on the issue of balanced or unbalanced development of the country, is worth it. I wrote this request, not simply because I was asked by one of my fellow Members in the Saeima, and at first sight it seemed to me that it was good and that it was important. Before that, I attended a meeting of the Regional Unit of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia. They were not, Aldi, some businessmen. They were representatives of the region, at least 10-15 entrepreneurs, and have prepared this meeting very seriously, invited all members of the Saeima elected from Latgale to the Saeima. Unfortunately, only four of us participated in this meeting - Juris Viļums, I, Aldis Adamovičs and Jānis Tutins. And from this meeting, from what was spoken and discussed there, and discussed, I understood two very important things that are, in fact, known to everyone. At least in Latgale. And also in the Commission for Sustainable Development, when we looked at Latgale issues and discussed what more can be done by the Ministry of Welfare to encourage people to be more active, to engage in work, to prevent long-term unemployment and so on. We finally arrived at one very clear and unequivocal conclusion that no such injections and no money will in essence solve unemployment issues in Latgale. It can only be solved by new jobs. So the first thing is that people, those who work, don't lose their jobs. And the second is to be entrepreneurs who create new jobs. And if we look at this situation, which is the case with us after tax reform, can we say with full responsibility that in Latgale and other regions of Latvia, except Riga and Perry, this issue will be resolved with it? No, no, no! This will not be resolved. All those who live outside Riga and Pierīga were most waiting for it, and this issue remains unresolved. And that is to say, we must do everything to mitigate the consequences of this evil and that really entrepreneurs who are still working would like to fight and to build and maintain businesses and give other people jobs in Latgale, not as a colleague said, to shut up and go for happiness and another job. And then let's raise the salary... But you know how this will happen! Entrepreneurs made it clear that they did not have the means to increase pay for all those working in their companies. This means that a certain number of employees will be released so that those who remain can get more salaries. Is this a new scenario in Latvia? No, that's all the time, all these years have gone on. And not only in private companies, but also in public companies will this happen! State and municipal institutions will also carry out the same optimisation - optimisation of workers - so that those who remain will be able to raise wages. I therefore believe that this debate is very important, very necessary. And finally we have to move from talk to work and finish... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovics: “What is the big decision? Why the least in Latgale?” ) Those parties who have been sitting here for a long time and speaking here: “Yes, they have to, they have to. And we'll do something else. Your proposal is unnecessary and foolish. We will create new programmes, new support, new instruments... “ All this is just a cosmetic repair. This situation is not substantially rectified. But for this situation, capital repairs are needed! You have to put these things in order at last and stop talking about it... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Play Ringolds, he will quickly tell you!” ) has to stop just talking about that... ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) that all Latvia is so small that everything that happens here in Riga and Pierīga is also valid for the fields. You talk to people from regions, to anyone! Anyone who wants to be honest will tell you how much he appreciates this situation. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) No matter where he works - in private business or municipality, or in public institution - he will say: in Latvia the countryside and the city have never been the same! And what Liga Kozlovska mentions is that we have been fighting for this all the time, from the beginning of the 1990s, to have these coefficients in the healthcare sector at least. To take account of this difference between rural and urban areas. And that is not only in medicine, but in all other sectors as well. So there must be a conversion of capital, not cosmetic repairs and cover-up... placing the head in the sand and sticking to the fact that, yes, we will give Latgale another economic zone, we will give the economic zone to Zemgale or Kurzeme... there, those border regions of Lithuania that are in an equally sad state... I'm just wondering why they don't raise their voice... And then all the questions will be resolved? Well, it won't be solved! And I agree with my colleague, Freeer, that time will show up. Next year, minimum wages will be raised, and then we will see what happens to the entrepreneurs, with the number of entrepreneurs and what will happen to the number of workers, and how the entrepreneurs will solve this issue of raising minimum wages.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members have received a request from Mr Adamovich, Mr Upenieks, Mr Dzintars, Mr Cilinskas and Mr Brigmanis to continue the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. I.Venner: “Categorical Objections!” ) Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) , “No!” ) Please Do you want to talk about the procedure? Please turn on the microphone for Imants Debtor!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U76	Colleagues! I believe that we are grossly violating the parliamentary roll of order. I understand that there are 10-15 minutes left to deal with the rest of the agenda. But that's a violation of all principles! We'll get to the last one so that we can handle the order of business faster. Well, that's just not fair! I call for work to be done in the way it is set. It's been an hour and a half, and we're going on a little break! If we believe that we need to make shorter breaks, we can do so. But that really does not match, in my opinion, the rule of law of the Saeima. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U77	Please turn on the microphone for Lolita Chigan!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U78	I want to support this proposal because we still have very many draft laws that can be seen. Many of them have more than 10 proposals. And if we want to discuss them thoroughly, we need a break.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U79	Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Neimins!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U80	Mr. Debtor, it's very often the case here that there's something going on unfairly, isn't it? Next time...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U81	Talk about the procedure, Mr. Neighbours! For the procedure!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U82	Well, Mrs. Mourniece, would I really be the right one to stop now?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U83	On the procedure, and briefly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U84	The procedure is that the National Association signed this proposal to work without interruption. Then, please, also work consistently. There, Raivis is home with his head, Mr. Debtor! You're in the same party. Let's go ahead without interruption. If anything, you can go right here and come back.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U85	So, Mr. Kaimiņš calls for no interruption...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U86	No break, of course!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U87	No break. Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the parliamentary session being held without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 24, for - 1. Consequently, Members have decided to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U88	Hello, colleagues! Today is a really unusual sitting. I do not want to qualify for the competition for the most true Latgaleian that is taking place here for some reasons, although I have one grandmother from Latgale. I think what Mr. Freeer said is not about Latgale... Yes or no. And it is clear that the colleagues who signed this request for a minimum wage were motivated by good intentions. And they can be understood too. At the same time, however, I bear in mind Article 91 of the Satversme, which states: “All people are equal before the law and before the court. Human rights shall be exercised without discrimination." Why am I saying that? Because it is dangerous for such a small country - a small territorially and a poor population - to differentiate between regions, especially if we are talking about the minimum wage gap. That's what I'm thinking of... ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) In 1936, Ķegums HES was built, and the original name of the HES was Ķegums State Power Plant. Now there are several HES in Ķeguma. But when they built this HES in 1936, there were ads... I'm not going to tell you exactly the difference in money between the Latgalian employees, the workers who could apply to work, and the rest, but the difference was halfway through. In fact, the job advertisement told the Latgalians (in fact they were actually discriminated against) that they would receive less than, say, workers from Vidzeme, Kurzeme and Zemgale. I think this path is wrong, colleagues. Of course, the problems are quite great if we are talking about minimum wages as such, but differences in regions should not be introduced. So I mean, you beat yourself this time in your mastery. Maybe you shouldn't have done that. I do not support the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U89	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U90	(Interjection: ‘Govern!’ ) Good afternoon for the second time! Dear proposers! Please listen carefully to what I'm going to say. And I will also ask the other Members: please listen carefully. Kalnozols has also provided jobs in Latgale, Dagda municipality. If you want to look at it, yes. And what I want to say, listen carefully. The problem with small entrepreneurs is that no one... More precisely, it is difficult to sell their products. Why? Because of the lack of buyers. And buyers have little purchasing power. Thus, a small businessman cannot be forced to spend enough money to make a normal profit and survive. So the problem, dear proposers, is that there is a lack of buyers and they have low purchasing power.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U91	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Brigmann, is there something to add? So the rapporteur for the committee does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Juris Viļuma, Ivars Brībers, Silvia Šymfas, Arvīda Platopera, Vars Krūmiņa (The Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) , Rihards Melgailis, Aivars Meija, Artuss Neimina, Edwards Smilten and Mārtiņš Šics apply to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “For raising the minimum wage”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 11, against - 48, refraining from - 2. The request is rejected. Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Member Inguna Silverba, Nelli Kleinberga, Ringold Baloža, Jānis Ruka, Gunāra Kūtra, Aivara Maya, Jura Viļuma, Vara Krūmiņa, Mārtiņš Šics and Rihards Melgailis to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the Results of the Research Committee of the LSSR’s Scientific Research Committee”. Under the parliamentary roll, the request has been distributed among all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, This request could briefly be based on one question: what is happening in the government, or what is the government thinking about this issue, about the work of the Scientific Research Commission of the Committee on State Security? Will everything be done again in the last month? How does the government ensure that the law adopted by the Saeima is enforced? We are currently hearing various, different, contradictory statements about what is happening in a public environment. And there are three basic issues. First. Scientific research of the documents of the National Security Committee was entrusted to a specific Commission of historians. We remember how the commission was originally anointed when the issue of which institution it would be and when it would receive money was resolved. Dear colleagues, We often criticise other countries that do not allow our scientists to get acquainted with the materials so that they can carry out historical research. What is happening in our own country? The historical commission created today has limited access to these materials: the documents for research are not provided. Secondly. The documents of the State Security Committee will be publicly available to everyone after the investigation in the amount and in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers. Colleagues! When will this happen, and what will this order be? Does the Cabinet itself know what the order will be? And how long will it take to make these documents go back, so to say, anonymize? How will the study be made publicly available? And isn't the documents ever secret again in any other way? Or do you really need a new law of lustration here so that former employees can apply for it? Thirdly. The law provides that the commission will complete its work by 31 May 2018. Look at the budget for next year! No money was foreseen for this sub-programme, and the Minister of Education and Science also pointed out that the money had been put into this year's budget. Will the commission really finish this year? The Minister of Education and Science is, of course, the primary responsibility in this matter, but the results of the work of the Commission are closely related to both the position of the Constitutional Protection Bureau and the joint action of the Government. We therefore call on the Head of Government to be clear. A single government position for the statutory task is very important to us. What, then, will be done in the way in which the money is spent, and will the commission really finish its work in one month’s time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U93	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U94	Highly respected members of the Bureau! Dear Members, honourable Members, On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I informed you that the Commission has not received proposals for second, final, reading and I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U95	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. On the order of business - the law “Amendments to the Law on the Structures of the State Administration”, re-reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U96	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On 30 June this year, the President of Latvia has sent the Saeima for the re-reading of the law “Amendments to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration” on the basis of several reservations. First. In the letter of the President of Latvia it was indicated that currently the issue of publicising the remuneration of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions with different degree of detail and different legal consequences is regulated by two laws - the Law on State Administration Structure and the Law on the remuneration of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions. In addition, both aforementioned laws grant the Cabinet of Ministers a different amount of authorisation to regulate these issues in more detailed terms and conditions. The issue of publicising private law contracts concluded by institutions on websites is already regulated by the Law on Public Procurement and the laws and regulations below. Secondly. The President of Latvia in his letter calls for a careful assessment of the aim of the amendments to Article 92 of the law supported by the Saeima on 22 June this year, the means chosen to achieve the aim, their relevance and proportionality in order to find a balanced solution that would promote both transparency and transparency in the use of public funds and would not violate the fundamental rights guaranteed in Article 96 of the Satversme. Thirdly. The letter also reflects the opposition of the State Data Inspectorate that the regulation included in Article 92 does not comply with the requirements of regulatory enactments regulating the protection of personal data. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, already before the second and third readings, the Commission drew up proposals to eliminate the opposition to the conflict of provisions of two laws referred to in the letter of the President of Latvia. The Commission has already indicated in the past that the so-called single remuneration law is much broader, as it applies to all public persons, unlike the State Administration Law. I would like to inform you that the draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers were presented at the meeting of the Commission on 8 November, which was drawn up on the basis of a delegation in the so-called Unified Remuneration Law. In accordance with these rules, the amount of the net remuneration is made public, identifying the person. However, in order to comply with the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, public disclosure does not include information about sensitive data such as information about paid benefits, personal health condition, sickness. In this way, the President's opposition to the violation of the prohibition of the publication of sensitive data is also respected. At this meeting, Members were also introduced to 11 European countries on the availability of information on remuneration in public administration. The Commission draws attention to the fact that the current regulation proposed by the Law on Remuneration and the Cabinet of Ministers already goes far beyond the standards established in other countries of the European Union, because in most countries only salary scales are published. For individualised persons, however, information on remuneration is provided at the appropriate written request, mainly to a limited extent. Thus, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has received six proposals for the re-reading of the law. 1. - The proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government on the expression of Section 6 of the Law in a new version. It has been developed taking into account the opposition of the President of Latvia and the fact that the regulation on the publication of the remuneration is established in the so-called uniform remuneration law and related regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission continues to call for this regulation to be excluded from the State Administration Law and to support the Commission's proposal. The proposal has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U98	Given that proposal 1 has been approved, the proposals of Member Dalder - 2, 3, 5 and 6 - shall no longer be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U99	So, on the proposal... The proposal is not put to the vote, but a debate on it is possible. The Commission’s view on proposal 2 is therefore not supported. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U100	Dear colleagues, More than a year has passed since we talked about these things. I remember saying a year ago to the committee responsible: "Let's see in a year's time how far we will be!" Now we see that we have gone nowhere further with this issue. So it has proved that I was absolutely right and will be looking for all kinds of, many different ways of recognising this proposal in substance, but if it can speak, gently rent it. The President of the State was of the opinion that it is not in line with the principles of legislation, let us say, and it is not in the right law, but I would like to inform you that next week we will have to vote for a really identical proposal, the same one, but it will be in the relevant draft law that we will be looking at in the budget package. In particular, it is a draft law on amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions, in which I submitted these proposals. So this decision of 22 June will only have to be confirmed once again. I call for this to be remembered. I am not going to take the vote in this bill at the moment. But I think we will no longer have to debate this next week because, in principle, we all decided this issue together in June; we will only do it with one vote next week to reaffirm and incorporate it into a law which, as the President said, is more correct. And I agree that we can do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U101	Thank you. Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U102	So there's three. - The motion of Member Inta Dalder is therefore not to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U103	The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U104	4. - the proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government on transitional provisions. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U106	5. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U107	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U108	And also 6. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U109	And neither is it to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U110	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the law “Amendments to the Law on Public Administration Equipment” after re-reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U111	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for adoption of the law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Equipment” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Thank you. On the agenda - Draft Act on the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U112	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document No 4192. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined this draft law at second reading, did not receive any proposal and supported it. I therefore call on the Commission to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U113	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U115	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U116	Hello, fellow Members, again! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, third reading. We have received eight proposals for the third reading. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission shall be supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U118	2. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. The Commission has not received the majority support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U119	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U120	Dear Members, My proposal deals with holding foreign money. If there's a foreign money, it's a interest payment, we all know it. If the State determines that the tax has to be paid, the amount of the tax becomes public money, so for the period between the deadline for payment of the tax and the moment the tax has been credited to the Treasury account, the taxable persons have to pay interest for holding the public money. These percentages are called late payment. However, there may be cases where a country wrongly recovers payments, thus becoming itself a holder of foreign money. Therefore, from the date on which the wrongly recovered payment was received in the budget to the date on which the tax administration recognises that the payment was incorrectly recovered, the State shall pay interest on the holding of the foreign money and these interest shall be measured in units of late payment. However, the State pays only half of the late payment, not the full late payment. I propose that the money to be repaid be increased and be full of late payment, not half, because the market rules are the same for everyone. The Ministry of Finance opposed my proposal. The Ministry justifies its objection that there are a number of cases where the law provides for relief for the taxable person, allowing him to pay only part of it rather than full late payment. The Ministry of Finance concludes, therefore, that the imposition of an undue increase in the amount of the undue payment of late payment on the full amount of the late payment is unjustified. However, my objection is that the law justifies the reduction of late payment to the taxable person... Why the undue payment to be recovered is increased by only half of the late payment, the law does not explain anything. It has been written: “To increase by half.” No explanation! I suggest, however, that the tax administration's responsibility for the early repayment of the taxpayer's liability for the late payment of the tax should be aligned. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U121	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U122	Yes! We have examined this proposal in the Commission. It has to be said that this is already the second opening, where Mr Pimenova has made such or similar proposals. And in fact, this proposal has also been rejected for the second time for the same reason. We, in support of this proposal, do not strike a balance between the interests of economic operators and the interests of the state. Therefore, the proposal was not supported in this case.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U123	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 39, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U124	Also 3. - Igora Pimenova's proposal, which is of a similar nature, did not receive the support of a majority in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U125	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U126	So a similar subject, a similar subject, a similar regulation and a similar proposal. Last time, cases of misrecovery by the tax administration were examined. However, there may be cases where the tax has been overpaid. This leads to the same situation that foreign money is held in the Treasury account and the State has an obligation to compensate for this holding by paying a certain percentage accordingly. But this time the State's liability is determined by law, measuring that responsibility: not the full amount of late payment, but only three fifths of the amount of late payment. Why is there no clarification, no explanation, no justification? I also propose that, in this case, the responsibility of the State for holding foreign money be aligned with that of the taxpayer in the event that the taxpayer does not pay tax to the State in due time. Accordingly, the tax administration must repay the interest in question by increasing the reimbursement of the undue overpaid part of the tax amount for the late payment that can be measured by a single entity. In particular, repay the overpaid part of the tax by increasing it by the full amount of the penalty payment. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U127	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U128	The Commission did not support this proposal. As in the previous case, the majority of the Commission considered that this proposal is disrupting the current balance. I therefore call on the Commission not to support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U129	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U130	Proposals 4 and 5 are linked. This is the implementation of the directive, so that the State Revenue Service can implement supervision of the CRS. Monitoring of CRS, colleagues, is a global standard for automatic exchange of information on financial supervision. Currently, some 100 countries are already exchanging this information under the CRS. Proposal No 4 is a proposal from the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U131	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U132	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U134	6. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U136	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U138	And the final one is 8. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U140	Colleagues! We have examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U141	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Banking”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Andris Morozovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U142	Hello, colleagues! The Commission supported the amendments to the Constitution adopted by the Constitutional Meeting of the University of Banks on 31 January 2017. No proposals were submitted. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U143	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of the University of Banks” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U145	On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U146	Dear colleagues, In its meeting on 7 November this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption discussed and supported the third reading of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law. 23 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U148	2. - The motion of the Saeima Member Jur Vectrian. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U149	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U150	3. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U152	4. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U154	5. - the proposal of Minister of Education and Science Shadursky. Partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U155	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U156	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U158	7. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U160	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U162	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U164	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U166	11. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U168	12. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U170	13. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U172	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U174	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U176	16. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U178	17. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U180	18. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U182	19. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U184	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U186	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U188	22. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U190	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U191	That is something that Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U192	The proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law at third reading, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U193	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U195	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U196	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. The substance of the amendments is the recognition of non-educational education. Six proposals have been received and all six have been supported. So it's 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U198	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U200	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U202	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U204	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U206	And six. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U208	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U209	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda: Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks. Is the rapporteur in the hall? Member Jānis Upenieks is therefore not in the hall. We will therefore consider the draft law at the end of the sitting. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U210	Dear colleagues, A total of 15 proposals have been received by the Legal Commission and decisions have been taken following the evaluation of these proposals. The proposal is made by Mr Adamsson, Member, on reinforcing the sanction. The Legal Commission assessed all the proposals made by this Member concerning the strengthening of sanctions for terrorist offences. There was a debate, and we concluded that some of the proposals were not in line with our long-standing conceptual view that confiscation could not be mandatory in all cases. This proposal was therefore not supported. Similarly, the proposed proposal on more severe prison sentences and the introduction of life imprisonment... We did not always support it. And so the first proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U211	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U212	The proposal is of a similar nature. This was not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U213	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U214	Also 3. - Mr Adamson's proposal - was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U215	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U216	4. - Member Adamson's proposal. Neither was it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U217	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U218	5. - Member Adamson's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U219	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U220	6. - Member Adamson's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U221	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U222	7. - Member Adamson's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U223	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U224	8 / 8 - Member Adamson's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U225	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U226	9. - Member Adamson's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U227	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U228	Dear colleagues, Adamson's proposal to this particular article and this article point to the need for Members to assess more carefully how international documents are translated into ministries and how Members are invited to apply them. Only because of the Ombudsman’s objections, the wording of the first reading corrected a material error and deleted the word ‘repudiation’ not mentioned in the Convention. Therefore, criminal responsibility for denying terrorism, which is a subjective act, will not be envisaged. Mr Adamson's proposal looks logical: abandoning the expansion of dissposition and focusing on less important issues, it is proposed to increase the penalty for real actions that can really lead to a tragedy. A significant increase in disposition will lead to an even more thorough audit of all Internet content. At the moment, in my view, there is a dual situation with regard to assessing the content of the Internet (hate speech, calls for crime) depending on the objects... The application of a new, broader rule should be more carefully assessed, especially in the light of the position of the Security Police on radicalisation. One of the signs of radicalisation, in the view of the Security Police, is the denial of Western values, and Western values mean the rights of democracy, gender equality and sexual minorities. For example, when reviewing comments on the Internet, the Security Police do not further explain whether matters of religious hatred have been initiated in connection with comments against Islamics or Christians. But at the same time, I had the opportunity to make sure in practice that the Security Police refused to respond to the anti-state offensive and in any other way provocative anonymous tweet account “Anarchy in Latvia”, which still produces its content, both calling on Christians to turn to Aglona's festival and promising to blow the Saeima and eliminate the state of Latvia. But Mr Mežviesta's response to my call to assess the content of this account, which is widely available to everyone, was a laconic refusal to initiate criminal proceedings this July. That is why I am concerned about the selective approach to assessing comments and publications aimed at both hate crimes and criminal activities. If, in the opinion of the Security Police, the Tviter's account in question has not infringed the law, then given that I have no confidence whether this article will be applied on an equal basis in the extension of the position, I call for support for the wording proposed by Mr Adamson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U229	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U230	Dear colleagues, Indeed, in the Legal Commission, we talked about the position of this article, in other words, the composition of the crime. At first reading, we said that the proposed original version was not good, and therefore the denial of terrorism, which was not clear, has also been excluded from this version... But with regard to the rest of the composition, we understood that the call was probably too little, and praise or excuse must still be retained in the criminal offence. The commission therefore decided not to support the short, or narrow, composition of Mr. Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U231	The Commission’s decision is therefore not to be upheld. Is the vote being held? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - A motion from Member Adamson! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 58, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Members Debtor, Šnore, Latkovskis, Nadiņš and Chair, based on the parliamentary order roll, are asked to hold a quorum check. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! 86 members have registered. So there's a quorum, we can go on with the Saeima sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “The Bureau will have such a self-vacuum!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U232	Dear colleagues, We shall continue to discuss amendments to the criminal law at second reading. The 10th proposal was a proposal by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which eliminates shortcomings in the original version. This new offer was supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U234	And also the 11th proposal, the motion by Member Curry, which is similar in nature, was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U236	12. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. The Legal Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U238	13. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission has, however, supported this proposal, but I have to inform you that the Legal Commission will continue to assess this proposal for third reading, as the wording should still be discussed. This wording may cause problems at the moment compared to the current wording of the first paragraph of this article, but it should be noted that this first part, which is currently in force, will be in a different wording from 1 January. A law has already been passed. That's why there's little here... Another work on drafting will be on the third reading. But the Legal Commission supported Silina's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U239	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U240	Dear colleagues, This specific proposal from the Ministry of the Interior leads to the recognition that recently the Criminal Law has begun to remind a phobia of security authorities. It was expected that when the Legal Commission arrived, Frankenstein, created by the Ministry of the Interior from the National Security Law - an administrative ban on leaving the country on suspicion grounds - would face certain difficulties. As you remember, about six months ago, the ban was supported by exiting the State as a preventive instrument, which intends to cancel the passport and is based on information held by the security authorities about a person's possible participation in armed conflicts abroad. However, as stated in the relevant Article of the National Security Law, these may also be completely other activities that are not related to armed conflicts and terrorism, such activities as those that provide sufficient grounds for believing that a person will, upon returning to the Republic of Latvia, threaten its national security. It's quite broad. At that time, I called on the Saeima not to support amendments to the National Security Law in this wording, because it would disproportionately and incomprehensiblely restrict human rights, creating a great risk for Latvia to be sued in the international human rights court. Given that the person will not always be invited to the institution in the course of the administrative procedure (it was also confirmed by the Commission), it is likely that the person will not be aware of such a prohibition until a certain time has already passed the Article of the Criminal Law. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the decision of the Minister will take effect from the date of its adoption. Such a provision is not to be supported. More! Taking into account that the Ministry of Justice has already included criminal responsibility for travelling for terrorist purposes in this draft law and that the educational measures of the Ministry of the Interior, while playing in administrative frames with a significant restriction, create a conflict of relevant norms and testify to the poor work of the government (the ministries have not coordinated such an important measure among themselves, and there is obviously no unity in this government!) I call on you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U241	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U242	Dear colleagues, Indeed, Mrs Stepanenko rightly pointed out that the ministries did not work together to the end. But if this proposal... Appendix to this Article as Section 1.1 is not inserted, then from 1 January the situation with the new wording of this Article will be such that the entry into, the irregular crossing of the border is criminally responsible, but that illegal departure, or, more precisely, the desire to leave, will not be required. This wording is not really good at the moment. Only because the proposal is to put this 1.1... embed in... The Legal Commission supported the need for such a regulation, but - with a more detailed version to the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U243	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Proposal submitted by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Silina! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U244	Proposal 14 is purely technical. If the previous one was supported, it is also necessary, and the Legal Commission supported Mrs Silina's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U246	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnačs, concerning the reference to the European Union Directive. And, of course, the Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U248	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U249	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U250	Please submit your proposals by 7 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U251	Thank you. Proposals are due by 7 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep Ones of the Land”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U252	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps”” (No 1076/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft laws for the first reading. Currently, the Law “On the Deep of the Land” provides that a licence for the use of subsoils or a permit for the extraction of frequently occurring minerals is issued for a period of up to 25 years, geological exploration and subsequent mining – for a period of up to 30 years. But the time of development of mineral deposits depends on a number of factors, including the volume of stocks and so on. This means that in the 25 years stipulated by the law, it is not possible to create a full range of deposits. Therefore, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has prepared and the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending this procedure and establishing that the time limit for obtaining a licence for peat is set for up to 75 years. It is renewed and supplemented at least every 25 years. If the 75-year period expires, a new licence and licence must be obtained. Of course, it must also be supplemented and renewed if there are changes in some of the essential conditions that apply, say, to the environment or nature protection, and so on. We have discussed this in the Commission. Of course, the question was how continuous monitoring is ensured, because simply leasing for 75 years and doing nothing, it is quite problematic. But the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development said that there were mechanisms to ensure this supervision. Consequently, the draft law was approved by the Commission at first reading, and I call on you fellow Members to also support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U253	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U254	Thank you. We will wait until 21 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U255	Thank you. Proposals are due by 21 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Rural Support Service Act, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U256	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Rural Support Service Act” (No 1036/Lp12). Two proposals have been received for the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included 2. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U257	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U258	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U260	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U261	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Support Service for Rural Development"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U262	The deadline for submitting proposals is November 21st this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U263	Thank you. Proposals are due by 21 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U264	Dear colleagues, The Commission has examined and prepared for the second reading of the Parliament’s draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” and we have received 31 proposals from the Commission. 1. is the proposal of Member Lolita Chigana, which is partly supported and included in Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U265	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U266	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I understand very well that most of you feel processed and unrelenting and probably don't want me to talk about some proposals here too long. However, I would like to remind you that I was one of those Members who stressed that we should not work without interruption. People need to rest and then continue to work on important proposals. For the second reading of this draft law, I made three proposals: 1, 4 and 5. - and I would like to thank the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which has seen the rational grain in these proposals, supported them in part and prepared proposals 6, 13 and 21 accordingly. The meaning of these proposals is as follows: they provide for greater individual responsibility for waste sorting (i.e. this greater individual responsibility is imposed on households and individuals, it is directed at supermarkets and other retail players), and they also provide for greater responsibility for local authorities in promoting and providing opportunities for waste sorting. I understand that perhaps many of you think at the moment why there is a need to discuss so much waste management issues. However, this problem is very topical, because our Latvia, which we would like to regard as a beautiful green land with a well-kept, beautiful environment, often turns into a manure landfill. I think that every one of you, when travelling in Latvia and visiting a beautiful natural place, has found that unfortunately, it has often been mentioned with waste. I recently practiced that when we go from home to work, on our way in the center of Riga, I simply collected the garbage that is lying there along the streets. So we need more responsibility, more individual responsibility for what is happening to our environment, because if we do not do anything, this pollution will continue. And that is why it is good that we have taken the first step and made it more responsible for sorting waste. Many of you may say that there are very many people in our society who do not want to take greater responsibility, but I would like to remind you that very recently we received a request signed by more than 11 000 people to the Saeima to finally begin to consider the introduction of a so-called deposit system so that people can be rewarded for the cans and plastic bottles they have placed. This morning, the head of the Competition Council, Mrs. Abrahams, delivered Latvian Radio and she said that one of the areas that really is not organised in Latvia in terms of competition is waste management. It is clear that waste managers are unfortunately active in resisting that people would sort waste more, that they would be given the opportunity to sort waste more and that we would achieve the European Union's goal of dividing 90 per cent of our waste themselves in 2030. Unfortunately, currently in Latvia, this indicator is one of the worst in the European Union: we only distinguish 29 percent of all waste waste. So I would like to say a great deal of thanks to Mr Moneyiņš and the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for supporting these proposals, but I would like to emphasise once again that this is just the first step in the fight for our people to be able to sort waste. This waste sorting is not necessary for the European Union or anyone else outside our borders; it is primarily necessary for us and our people. So I am glad that my proposals have been partly supported. I did not ask for them to vote, but I hope that, overall, the Saeima will support the proposals adopted by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U267	Thank you. Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U268	Hello, dear colleagues! However, I would like to say that Mrs Chiganes is somewhat exaggerating the substance, meaning and also the result of these proposals. No particular separate responsibilities... there are no increased areas. That's one. Second. However, I will try again to extinguish the myth of competition in waste management. Look, in Riga, where it seems as though competition is wonderful, where a businessman manages waste, it is precisely with waste sorting that is the worst situation. But where there are municipal companies that Mrs Abraham has always addressed, where the municipalities have jointly set up ZAAO, there, in Northern Vidzeme, the waste sorting works best. This is my deepest belief that waste management, water management and heating are the areas where it is the municipalities that can provide the best quality of service. If Mrs Abraham always believes that waste management should also be free competition and the municipalities should be pushed out of this market, then, in my opinion, she - consciously or unconsciously - undermines the possibility of improving the waste management regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U269	The debate has not yet been closed. The name is Lolita Chigan, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U270	Mr Līdak, do you represent the Green Party or do you not? I do not really understand why you are so opposed to people sorting their own waste and bringing it to recycling in a sorted way. Mr Līdaka has recognised several times from this troupe in connection with other draft laws that he is acting in the interest of the lobby. I still remember, we've had such times. Mr Līdaka, you needed this to prove that you are defending and defending the interests of the big waste managers and not allowing our people to take greater responsibility for the environment on their own?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U271	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U272	Oh, yeah! ( Blowing.) I represent the Green Party and I have certainly always fought for the separate collection and sorting of waste. However, if Mrs Chiganas puts forward a proposal, which states that if there are separate collection containers in the inner courtyards of multi-storey houses, where the population of the three four houses carries the waste, what is going to be bought, say, into a container for glass, one bucket with banana bark, then the population of all these surrounding houses should be punished?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That is the proposal that has been tabled. If a person suddenly wakes up and focuses on this subject, this does not mean that he can be considered a specialist in waste management. For the first time, a person comes to the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and, as it turns out, he is an absolute specialist. A luka and many within the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which regularly and quite often looks at various draft laws on this issue - absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U273	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U274	Hello, colleagues! Hello, colleagues! Hello! We really discussed these proposals cross-border within the Commission. And in the Commission, I propose the following strategy: simply to support everyone, because they are also populist, impossible, and there is no point in spending time in discussions at all, because it is clear that it is simply pre-election populism - pointless, unfulfilled decisions. I call on you not to deal with it now. If someone wants to come and, as they say, create for himself a political PR to do, but the rest do not participate in it! Let's just go constructively ahead of the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U275	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U276	Yes! Colleagues! Thus, as I have already said, the Commission has partially supported the proposal and included in proposal 13. The proposals of Lolita Chigan have been taken into account. Thank you for your engagement, for your initiatives. They have been improved, legally sound and included in further proposals. Consequently, proposal 1 has been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U277	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U278	2. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U280	3. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U282	4. - the proposal from Member Lolita Chigan. Partly supported, included in proposal 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U283	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U284	5. - the proposal from Member Lolita Chigan. Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U285	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U286	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U288	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U290	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U292	9. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported, included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U293	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U294	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U296	11. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U298	Also 12. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U300	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U302	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U304	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U306	16. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U308	17. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U310	18. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U312	19. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U314	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U316	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U318	22. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U320	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U322	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U324	25. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Is partially supported, included in 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U325	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U326	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal 27 has also been partly supported and incorporated.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U327	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U328	27. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U330	28. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U332	29. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U334	30 as well. - Minister Kaspars Gerhard's proposal, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U336	31. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U338	All the proposals have therefore been supported. Colleagues, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U339	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U340	We will wait until November 23, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U341	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 23 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of Public Person”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U342	Colleagues! This draft law is closely linked to the Social Enterprise Law. And thanks to the efforts of Member Cilinski, the draft law has been drafted in good quality. Thus, when examining this draft law before the second reading, the Commission had to draw up only one proposal, which established the time of the law's entry into force. This is the only proposal from the Commission and I call for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U344	All the proposals have therefore been supported. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U345	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of Public Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U346	The Commission proposes to set a deadline for the submission of proposals by 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U347	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 23 November of this year. On the agenda - Draft law on the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U348	Hello, again. We work with document No 4193. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law at second reading. No proposal was received and supported. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U349	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law on the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U350	The deadline for submitting proposals is November 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U351	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 24 November of this year. On the agenda - Draft law Amending law on the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Côte d'Ivoire, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U352	We work with document No 4194. We also examined this draft law at second reading, we did not receive proposals and we supported it. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U353	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law on the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Côte d'Ivoire, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U354	November 24th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U355	Proposals shall be submitted by 24 November of this year. On the agenda - Draft law on the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U356	We work with document No 4195. We examined this draft law at second reading, we did not receive proposals and we supported it. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U357	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law on the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U358	November 24th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U359	Proposals shall be submitted by 24 November of this year. On the agenda - Draft law Amending law on the Interim Agreement on Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central African Contracting Party, of the other part, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U360	We work with document No 4196. The Commission has examined the draft legislation at second reading. No proposals were received and supported. I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U361	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law on the Interim Agreement on an Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central African Contracting Party, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U362	November 24th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U363	Proposals shall be submitted by 24 November of this year. On the agenda - Draft law Amending law on the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U364	Document No 4197. We also examined and supported this draft law. We have not received any proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U365	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law on the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U366	November 24th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U367	Proposals shall be submitted by 24 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U368	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U369	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Walter Dambe.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U370	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs drafted amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children's Rights, taking into account events of this summer both in Jelgava's children's home and in other places. And in order to avoid misunderstandings, an amendment was introduced within the Commission, with the help of experts, which prohibits the work of children's children by persons who have been administratively punished with a fine for physical or emotional violence against the child. On the other hand, where a person has been administratively punished with an alert, the head of the institution shall be obliged to assess the suitability of that person to work in the child's home or to organise events involving children. Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U371	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U372	I would like to add. If we open this law, it would also be good to open up the law in which we define the best interests of children. It's such a very vague thing for this moment. And the other thing. If we talk about physical and emotional violence, then the law must be opened... Finally, everything connected with emotional violence needs to be put in order. For this moment... In principle, emotional violence cannot be punished. And if we do not deal with the issue of emotional violence and only deal with the issue of physical violence, then more of this law is directed against fathers. Why? Because the police will say that there are so many applications that fathers are violent. But why is that? Because our father's image is accepted a priori - he's violent, but the woman is not violent. And when a father submits to the court that a woman has been violent, he looks at her as an idiot: what are you doing here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And if we talk about emotional violence, I would also like to say: it is a very fine thing. My dear friends, including loving - kindness, are emotional acts of violence! And since we open this law to the issue of emotional violence, it should be borne in mind that it would be in the best interest of the child to grow up with both biological parents. And in this case it could almost be said that 70 percent of Latvians are violent against their children. And I want to mention something else. If we arrange the whole system, which is linked to the best interests of the child, to the rights of the child, then I think that 80 percent of the orphans' and 80 percent of the social services' employees should be punished in accordance with those points.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U373	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U374	Look, these are the unusual things you're doing right now! We are talking about the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, about workers in those children's homes. Someone... Is that so? What are you talking about all the time?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are you doing here? Sit down, calm down! Get to the doctor if you want!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U375	On the bill. Mr. Neighbours, for the bill, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U376	Please vote! There's nothing to do with any kind of emotional violence. You've been doing emotional violence here! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U377	I must add, however, that Article 8 of the Saeima Code of Ethics (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Yes, yes, yes!” ), that the argument does not refer to the health status of the opponents. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It’s obvious!” ) But don't use it, Mr. Neighbours! We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time. ( Mallies, laughter.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U378	Thank you, Artus! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you. Thank you very much. Depp. A.Kimiņš: “You are sick!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U379	I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U380	There's nothing to say.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U381	There's nothing to say. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U382	In the Commission, we will wait until 24 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U383	So the proposals are due by 24 November this year. The order of business - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals” for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No 1034/Lp12) until 24 November 2017. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No 1034/Lp12) until 24 November 2017! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Another item on the agenda is the examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts’, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U384	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law Amending the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts. The Commission has received five proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U385	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U386	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U388	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U390	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U392	And 5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U393	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U394	I therefore call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U395	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Annual Accounts and Consolidated Annual Accounts". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U396	Deadline for submission of proposals - 22 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U397	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 November of this year. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. With regard to answering Members' questions today, I would like to inform you. Member of the Parliament for the issue of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Kaspars Gerhards, Brīviņa, Viļuma, Krumina and Smiltēna, “On the connection of the civil servant to the post of the association”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he will not be able to attend the oral response because he will participate in the ceremony of the Cabinet Award. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Awesome! This is much more important, of course!” ) On the question of Member Cilevičs, Ribakava, Zariņa, Urbanovičs and Pimenovs to the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis “On execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 13 May 2005 in case No 2004-18-0106”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. On the question of Member Zariņa, Urbanoviča, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika and Tutina, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, about the avoidance of the Ministry of Economics to provide information on the issue of possible illegal activities related to the production of subsidised electricity and its monitoring. The question was referred to the Member of the Prime Minister, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. On the question of Member Zariņa, Urbanoviča, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika and Tutinas, Minister for Economics, Arvilas Asheraden, about actions taken by the Ministry of Economics to reduce the burden of compulsory procurement. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Members' questions have been received. Members Silver, Kleinberga, Stepanenko, Maija and Krūmiņš submitted a question “On the plan for the improvement of mother and child health for 2018-2020 for measures to include influenza vaccines in vaccination calendar for children and pregnant women”. The word for motivation to Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U398	Dear colleagues, After encouraging doctors and parents, Members got acquainted with the measures of the mother and child health improvement plan for 2018-2020. The draft plan was announced on 12 October this year and envisages, by the way, an increase of 125 times in the coverage of influenza vaccines by infants, young children and pregnant women. Although there is no evidence of any public consultation, many healthcare professionals and parents have expressed doubts about the need and safety of influenza vaccination for these target groups. It seems that this step is not well-founded in epidemiological indicators, but is because it is planned to exert pressure on family doctors to ensure a rapid increase in the coverage with the inclusion of vaccines in the vaccination calendar. Is this a proportionate measure for the health of our children? We want answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U399	Thank you. The question is referred to the Minister for Health Anda Chakša for a reply. Members Viļums, Brīvers, Šics, Krumiņš and Melgailis submitted a question to Members “On the term of office of the rector of Daugavpils University”, which we hand over to Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis. Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arturs Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted the question “On the authorisation of subsidised electricity production to economic operators”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U400	What question?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U401	‘Authorisation of subsidised electricity production for economic operators’.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U402	Yes! Hello, colleagues! Yesterday we had a simply phenomenal meeting of the Commission on Petitions. The request was made to the Minister for Economic Affairs in connection with the activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the so-called subsidised electricity production permits, about these cases of fraud, and we presented concrete facts, concrete decisions of the Ministry of Economics, which demonstrate that the Ministry of Economics has covered all these cases and made them possible. You know what the Economic Ministry's answer was? The answer wasn't at all! The entire commission meeting was completely past! It was not a question of demand in general! And that is why we have once again prepared specific questions for the Ministry of Economics about these decisions, about these specific cases of fraud, so that the Ministry of Economics submits all its decisions... all the documents on the basis of which these phenomenal decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U403	Thank you. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, for a reply. And Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arthur Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs presented the question “On decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding production of subsidised electricity by “Riga Energy” Ltd. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U404	“Riga Energy” is one of these stories. Very interesting story, colleagues! The Ministry of Economy itself stated that the authorisation was granted and provided that the operator was to start production before 5 October under the terms of the authorisation. The Ministry of Economy itself publicly stated that checks had been carried out. Not only have journalists been there, but the Ministry of Economics has also carried out checks there, and it is recognised that this station has not complied with the permit conditions. Consequently, the terms of the authorisation have not been fulfilled, the deadline has expired. There should be a decision of the Ministry of Economics. What about the Ministry of Economics? That it will need another four months to make a decision. And what is the motivation? Motivation is: to make sure what decision to make. Tell me what these four months are being given for? Will the necessary documents appear with retroactive dates so that a decision can still be taken other than that which should be taken now on the basis of the existing verification data? So then we ask the Ministry of Economics - please submit these documents to us, maybe we will help you to understand what the decision needs to be made on this issue, and four months will not be needed at all.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U405	Thank you. Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arthur Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted a question to the Minister for Economics Arvils Aseradens “On the authorisation of subsidised electricity production to economic operators” (No 347). Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U406	Colleagues! This story is about the same thing. One of the questions we asked during the Panel meeting... We've shown a particular case of fraud... As it looked at by the decisions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So a certain businessman, Madona Eko, who has been granted a permit for three megawatts. The Ministry of Economics itself then allows him to reduce the installed capacity by saying that it can be reduced more than 300 times, which allows that operator to install the container instead of a serious station, to withdraw the ‘Distributive network’ and to order the ‘Distributive network’ to accept it, which is also carried out under the authorisation of the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Economy then acknowledges that it was not possible to do so. More than that. On the basis of these documents, on which it has said that they should not have been and that they are fraud, the Ministry takes its next decision. Recognise that everything is fine and increases power back 300 times. That was one of the points of demand that we asked for the Minister for Economic Affairs to explain. The answer was nothing. That is why we are asking this question again, we are asking for all these documents and decisions to be submitted to us, and let us go back to the whole procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U407	Thank you. The question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arturs Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted the question “On the authorisation of subsidised electricity production to economic operators” (No 348) to Minister of Economy Arvilas Aseradens. Name for motivation to Member Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U408	Another story about this request why we are now forced to write the question. Another company - “Tektus” - has been granted a permit for 0.99 megawatts. More than two years later, this company “Tektus” is appealing to the Ministry of Economics. But what do we do?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U409	No, the next one is about "Tects". This is about “Seda”.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U410	About “Seda”? Then you tell me. I don't know who it is.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U411	I'm 348.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U412	The “Sed” is very interesting. ‘ Seda’ is one of the fraudsters that we have discovered. The Ministry of Economy has decided to extend the authorisation. That is why we are asking for all the documents, all the decisions that the Ministry has taken with regard to this company to help make it clear, whether there was fraud or not.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U413	Thank you. We therefore refer this question to the Minister for Economic Affairs. The next item is question No 349 from Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arthur Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs on licences for the production of subsidised electricity for economic operators. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. And this was about “Tects”.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U414	So this is another legend about the involvement of the Ministry of Economics in the fraud scheme, which shows that the Ministry of Economics has not only covered it, but directed it all. “Tektus” Ltd. has been issued a permit for almost megawatt. After more than two years, this company asks the Ministry of Economics: “What do we do? We can't set up! Can we install 100 times less power?” The Ministry of Economics answers: “Of course you can, and everything will be fine.” This happens more than two years later, when this company had to start construction in accordance with the laws and regulations before. Then it has not done so! They come and say, “We won’t do it at all! Can we do something else?’ Instead of assessing and taking a decision in accordance with the requirements of the legislation and rejecting it at all, the Ministry of Economics says: “You can do so!” And they're starting to do it. And this is one of the fraud schemes shown by journalists. In particular, installed is a container, it is accepted; there is an act that is done according to the decision of the Ministry of Economics, and then the Ministry of Economics says: “You know it was fraud!” The Minister for Economics says: “It was a surprise for us.” But the next step taken by the Ministry of Economics is that during this same Minister, they decide that it is all right that this is a legitimate decision and make their decision on the basis of the documents submitted, which states that it is a fraud that we will increase capacity 100 times. And a new permit is issued for another five years in order to allow all of this to be done and to maintain the aid.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U415	Thank you. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arthur Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs have submitted...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U416	Which one... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U417	... the question ‘On subsidised electricity production permits for economic operators’ (No350). It is addressed to the Minister for Economics and refers to SIA Madonas Eko. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U418	‘Madon Eko’. A very interesting story! The permit for three megawatts is withdrawn - it is a huge power in the countryside, where there is nowhere to put it. The Ministry of Economics obediently issues: “Yes, you can do it!” This same businessman, once he has received aid for this huge capacity, immediately, within less than a month, is present and says: “Can we reduce capacity?” - “How much?” - “Well, 300 times we’re going down.” He says: “Yes, you can. Please!’ And what's he doing? On receipt of such permission by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, he goes to this place, installs a container, withdraws the “Salile network”. Again the normal procedure. ‘ The distribution network’ is forced to check it all. They are given the permission of the Ministry of Economics to write this capacity; they accept it all, they are transferred to the Ministry of Economics. In the Ministry of Economics, the same minister admits that it was a fraud. But what does the Ministry of Economics do? On the basis of these documents, the Ministry says: “No, it was all right! You've done everything. Here, you... “And with this permission, this company says, “Well, if we have done everything, can we now increase power 300 times again?” The Ministry of Economics says ‘Yes!’ This same Minister for Economics!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U419	Thank you. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arturs Rubiks, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted the question “On licences for the production of subsidised electricity for economic operators” (No.351). Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U420	SIA “Briedis būve”. The story is the same: two megawatts. ( Milestones.) I understand that you have heard the story, you have already remembered it, so I will not start to repeat it. But the question is to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Provide us, please, with all these documents, with your decisions so that we can see how rightly you have taken them and whether you have really done all this in the public interest, in order to reduce the burden on OICs, or in the interests of a particular businessman! Thank you. I could also finish this story because, in principle, I understand that everyone has understood what it is about. And I hope that, with exactly the same response when there is a debate on this request, on these facts, you will vote in accordance with your conscience and as you have said in your oath. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U421	Time to register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U422	Dear colleagues, who are still here! Let us check those who have not registered! Jānis Adamsons, Gaidis Berzins, Inesis Boķis, Gundars Dauge, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Inese Laizāne (Dep. I. Pastor: “She is!” ), Aleksejs Loskutovs, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Edwards Smiltens, Veiko Spolitis and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-11-16-PT12-448-U423	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
