ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 25 October 2017. On the agenda - the state budget for 2018 and the accompanying draft laws. Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the Saeima sitting. So on the agenda - the state budget for 2018 and the accompanying draft laws. I would remind you that, in accordance with the order of the Saeima, Members will be able to debate the entire budget package, any of the accompanying draft laws or the draft state budget when we begin the debate. But now I give the floor to Janis Vucanas, Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U2	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good afternoon, dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission has received a review of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” and the draft law “On the Medium-Term Budgetary Framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020” as well as the accompanying draft laws package. The Commission has examined these draft laws in several of its meetings this week, and on behalf of the Commission, I will ask you in turn to support the urgency of all the draft laws in this package. I invite you to support the urgency of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 53, no. - 27, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U4	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on amendments to the Tourism Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 29, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U6	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law Amending the Law on Accounting to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Accounting” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U8	On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U10	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on the financing of the preservation of the Sacred Heritage Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the financing of the conservation of the Sacred Heritage! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 31, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U12	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U13	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 33, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U14	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on amendments to the Land Governance Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's against - 35, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U16	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law Amending the law on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of an employer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U17	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Protection of Workers in the event of Employers’ Insolvent”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 58, against - 34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U18	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law Amending the Law on Regulators for Public Services to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -33, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U20	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 57, against - 34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U22	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law "Amendment to the law on assistance in the area of housing" to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U24	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Immigration Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U26	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law "Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax" to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's against - 35, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U28	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 58, against - 34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law "Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax".
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U32	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Account Register Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Account Register Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U34	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U36	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law "Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Authorities".
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U37	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 57, against - 34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U38	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Education Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U40	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 58, against - 33, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U42	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law Amending the Roads Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U43	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Roads” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U44	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law Amending the Law on Taxes and Fees to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U45	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's against - 35, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U46	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft legislation on the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U47	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 57, against - 35, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U48	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the State Funded Pensions Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U49	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -35, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U50	On behalf of the Commission, I am calling for the urgent draft law on the amendment to the Brunch Courts Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U51	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Barn Courts” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 58, against - 34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U52	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U53	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -33, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U54	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law Amending the Law on State Social Insurance to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U56	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U57	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 58, against - 34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U58	On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for the urgent draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020”.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U59	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U60	On behalf of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, I call for the urgent draft law “On the State Budget for 2018”.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U61	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's against - 35, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U62	Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I thank you for the urgent nature of all the draft laws in the budget package.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U63	Thank you. And now we are launching a debate on the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” and the accompanying draft laws at first reading. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U64	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, The year is coming to an end and, as usual, the Saeima must decide on the state budget for the following year. This is already the second draft budget of my government, which is fully based on the priorities set out in the government declaration. The main priorities of the state budget for 2018 have already been publicly named, and these are: health care, demographics, politics and state security. I'll start with the last, but definitely the most important. The next year's budget for national defence is intended to channel two per cent of gross domestic product. It was a promise made by the Latvian Government to its Western allies and partners years ago. Governments have changed, the declared priorities have changed, but the promise has been kept. This demonstrates the political maturity and ability of the members of the Latvian Saeima and their approved governments not to remain in the interest of their parties at times when it comes to the security and fate of Latvia. The decision to increase the state defence budget to the level set by NATO standards will definitely increase Latvia's reputation as a reliable partner in the eyes of our allies, and we will be able to hope for their support in the future. It should be added that the support of allies is vitally necessary for Latvia. Of course, it must also be stressed that increasing the defence budget is a kind of challenge for the Ministry of Defence. Money must be spent wisely and with only one aim - strengthening Latvia's defence capabilities. I am sure that the leaders of the defence sector are aware that the country also has many other priorities and must therefore work as effectively as possible so that society does not have any doubt about the efficiency of defence budget spending. Honourable Members! Another year's priority for many governments has been demographic policy, namely the promotion of birth rates. There's always been a lot of talk, but there's very little work. I do not want to criticise any of the previous governments, because it is one of the most difficult issues for any government, regardless of its ideological orientation. When we launch any discussion on demographic issues, we come to the question of money early or late. Thank you to the Centre for Demographic Affairs for the persistent updating of this issue. After a long debate on next year's demographic policy, a third child's policy was identified as a priority. The budget also provides for the necessary funding. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Welfare for being involved and involved in the development of a better concrete solution, guaranteeing that there will be no loser in changing the support system, while maintaining the original idea that a third child family will receive significantly higher monthly benefits. Clearly, it is not enough, and the sceptics ironically remind us that the first and the second are to be born before the third child is born. They are right, and any government will have work left. Demographic policies must certainly be seen in a much broader context, linking them to economic policies, housing policies, education and health systems. Sandy Salaka, the Head of the Mothers' Club, said yesterday Latvian Radio that young women want to create children, but there are various obstacles that discourage them from taking a decision. I understood that these obstacles are not just about finance. I think that the Centre for Demographic Affairs still needs to identify all these obstacles and come forward with proposals to prevent them. In many cases, it may not require significant financial resources. Honourable Members! Health is a sector that could be identified as the top priority of the public budget next year. The Minister of Finance called the entire budget for 2018 the budget for health care promotion. She can agree because the next year's budget for the health sector provides for more than one billion euros. The amount is high, but the needs of the sector are also high. Pressure on the part of some of the social partners to increase health budgets does not stop, but that is the greatest we can afford at the moment. The healthcare system is following reforms and a new financing model is also introduced in which the range of services in healthcare is linked to social contributions. If we want to build a solidarity and a just society, we have no other way out. The existence or absence of social contributions is a criterion of fairness. Big money is a great responsibility. This must be understood both by the Ministry of Health's management and by all the heads of the sector's institutions, and also by its opinion leaders, who often exhibit themselves in various Internet portals and press publications. The health sector crisis has not ended, but the chances of successful reforms have increased with the increase in funding. A positive change is expected in society, and it has the right to do so. The healthcare system needs effective and competent management without relying on decisions made during the culinary negotiations or on corporate groups. The most important thing is the patient, the person who meets his treating doctor and who is taking blood tests, for example, by his nurse. These people are the true face of healthcare; they must respect and play. Talking about the moments of salaries of the administrative heads of some health care institutions sounds like provocation. Doctors are lacking, sisters are lacking, but heads of monetary institutions are not lacking. That's great. I hope that the Ministry will have the capacity and competence to move forward with the reform process, without losing all the good things that the system has already created. Honourable Members! This year has been a great success for the economy so far. The rate of economic growth has reached or even exceeded four per cent. It is true that this is linked to the acquisition of European structural funds, but this is accompanied by an improvement in the situation on export markets, and an increase in internal consumption and lending. The macroeconomic situation is stable, we have a relatively low public debt and a balanced payment structure. Latvia is developing, and if the current pace of development remains in 2018, we will be able to talk about the economic breakthrough of the country. Its aim is to reach the average standard of living of the Member States of the European Union as soon as possible, which would reduce the economic emigration of Latvian citizens and encourage the return of migrants. Sometimes there are voices that Latvia's economy is developing too quickly and we are approaching a new crisis. These votes are trying to recall the events of 2008. It is difficult to find a factual basis for this because macro-economics do not find a high degree of disproportion of development and the risks of economic vulnerability are low. We could build up savings, but then we would not have additional resources for socially sensitive sectors, above all for healthcare. The tax reform adopted by the Saeima will give additional impetus to the development of the Latvian economy, and after a few years we will start building reserves that will increase our security. The next year's budget is the annual budget for the parliamentary elections, but there is no castle of populism. It is therefore fair to Members of all the parties represented in the Saeima. I know you're a publicman who can make bold decisions. I invite the members of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia to support the national budget for the year 2018 at first reading. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U65	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U66	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Dear Members! Honourable Members! Prime Minister! Colleagues Ministers! When presenting the budget plan to Parliament and the public, finance ministers usually use something like a professional tool for terminology, and this speech will not differ much. For example: a euro budget, a sustainable planning budget, a deficit, a balanced and fiscally responsible budget; a growth, competitiveness budget. These terms, of course, sound like the textbook, and the ears of experts they are normal and also correct enough. But, in my opinion, the national budget plan cannot be limited to a collection of different formulas and figures, which have been clothed in bureaucratic and communication, sometimes too often used in rhetorical figures, which no longer make any sense in themselves. On the draft budget for 2018. The draft budget for next year prepared by the government and to a large extent all coalition partners is a financial plan, the main task of which is to make the Latvian people stronger and healthier. Two weeks ago, by traditionally transferring the budget portfolio to the Speaker of the Saeima, I added an apple - a symbol of health, vitamins and strength. As people from social networks have noticed, this budget apple is completely healthy, no one has bitten in it and no one has bitten it inside. Thank you to all coalitions and social partners for their work in preparing the budget! And, as the Prime Minister has already said, despite being a year of pre-election, discussions, disputes, the agreement went through a very constructive atmosphere. As the most important in the 2018 budget, I would particularly like to highlight the increase in funding for health, safety, demographics and education. Positive changes will affect every citizen in all regions of our country. And I am sure that will be a strong impulse for improving the quality of life of Latvian society and also reducing inequality. We, colleagues, are not living in an isolated world, and, as the researchers of social processes point out, not only terrorist or aggressive, provocative national governments are now at risk in the world, but also, perhaps even more so, a great challenge for civilisation is the devastating feeling of injustice caused by inequalities in access to income and public services. Reforms are needed in the world, reforms are needed in Europe and reforms are also needed in Latvia. In order for Latvian society to live better, the government has to do a number of difficult works, and they also hide behind the figures of the 2018 budget plan - reforms with all their severity and with all their charm. Latvia has been the most powerful reformer in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development this year. So, in presenting last year's report, the OECD Secretary-General, Angel Gury, says. With strong consistency and commitment from the reform champions, the government of Kučinska has done things so necessary for Latvia and its growth, setting a good example for other European countries as well. Last year, the reform of police salaries was completed and education reform was launched. Just a few months ago, you, my fellow Members, voted in favour of an ambitious tax reform, which, for the first time in a number of years, made a distinction between deciding on changes in the tax system and deciding on budgetary expenditure. A new reform of health care is currently on the agenda, for which the government has identified the most important place in the 2018 national financial plan. Dear colleagues, The 2018 budget is an important instrument. Through this we will also ensure that the pace of development of the Latvian economy is faster (already faster) than in most European Union countries. The Latvian gross domestic product will reach and even exceed EUR 28 billion next year, and in 2020 it will already exceed EUR 31 billion. I hope that the happiness index will also improve. Next year, we are planning revenues of EUR 8.75 billion for the national consolidated budget, while expenditure will be EUR 8.95 billion. And what does the budget look like next year? Most of the funding - more than three billion - will be devoted to social protection, pensions, benefits. They are followed by healthcare, with the largest historical funding available, exceeding one billion euros. After that, education - EUR 753.7 million. For defence - EUR 574.8 million. For internal security, 570 million. Culture - 188,7 million. The new measures will invest EUR 367 million, and this is what we are doing fiscally. That is our role: we are generous with one hand, we are saved with the other. Continuing last year's tradition, this year's process of reviewing budgetary expenditure has also been successful, and this has enabled us to find more than EUR 50 million in internal reserves for financing the new measures. For the second year in a row, we are building a reserve for fiscal collateral of 0.1 per cent of gross domestic product, and we will continue to do so in the coming years. The budget deficit for the following year will be minus one percentage point, with a derogation from the health reform as a whole, reaching only minus 0.4 per cent of gross domestic product in 2020. By reducing the deficit, we really create the preconditions for a deficit budget in the near future and reduce the pressure on inflation in the active economic growth cycle. On the health sector. The government has allocated more than €235 million next year to improving access to health services, reducing queues and increasing wages for health professionals. Improving the availability of healthcare services is intended to channel more than EUR 28 million, thus reducing queues to services by 15 percent. These are estimates of the Ministry of Health. Over 1175 operations are planned next year... is intended to increase the means for replacement to 13.2 million, and to provide doctors with advice, diagnostic tests and treatment for oncological diseases in more than 130,000 patients. ( Internouncing call.) Additional funds will also be directed towards the diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases. And more than 29 thousand patients will receive this additional funding from eligible medicines. A major contribution to public health! Increasing remuneration for doctors and other medical staff has been a priority of the Ministry of Health. For primary health care, family doctors are expected to increase by 28 percent by the total income of family doctors by more than 550 euros per month. Next year you will also be able to raise the fees of doctors and functional specialists. The salaries of medical and care professionals and functional assistants will increase, and the salaries of support staff will also significantly increase. Here, too, it must be emphasised that the government has drawn up a road map for future developments in health sector financing and has set a clear target of reaching four per cent of gross domestic product for healthcare financing in 2020. On protection and internal security. More than 126 million more than this year will be added to strengthening national security. This is the current area in which the government of Kučinski has kept its word, and the defence budget will exceed two per cent of gross domestic product, as we were determined to do in our agreement with NATO partners. In order to strengthen the state's self-defence capacity, next year there will be funding for the development of the National Armed Forces, including the Land Guard, Battle and Response Capacity, as well as for the development of the New Guard; staff training, equipment, technical equipment, as well as the development of military base infrastructure will be continued. The main internal security priorities for which we have provided additional funding are strengthening of the eastern borders of the country - Latvia-Russia, Latvia-Belarus - and enhancing the capacity of counter-terrorism and combating cyber crime, and protecting children from criminal offences. For prosperity. The state budget for 2018 is planned for almost €40 million to address demographic and social issues. The biggest support will take the form of family state benefits, with more motivation for social workers and support for families and alternative forms of care. Non-governmental organisations will also be supported and additional technical means will be purchased for people with disabilities. In the area of traffic, stable funding for the next three years for both road and rail infrastructure, which next year alone will make it possible to clean up more than 300 kilometres of gravel road cover. About education and science. In the field of education, almost €15 million is earmarked for the remuneration of higher education teaching staff, research and the sport sector. Science alone will be €4.3 million next year: the basic funding for basic applied research and research projects in the energy sector. Cultural field. On the eve of the centenary of Latvia, the employees of museums, archives, theatres, orchestras, operas and ballet, as well as amateur collective leaders, will finally gain their salary. Also from next year it is planned to raise pay for teachers of secondary culture and scholarships for pupils of secondary culture. The next year's budget also provides for funding to support creative persons who are temporarily excluded from income. This is one of the initiatives that we have had on the agenda, but no solution has been found for many years. This can finally be done. Particular attention will also be paid to the preservation of the sacral heritage and the strengthening of secular values by providing co-financing for religious activities, the functioning of church buildings, as well as reconstruction works, while preserving cultural and historical evidence in the architecture of the country. In agriculture, the most important support will be provided for fruit, berries and vegetables produced in Latvia, which are offered to reduce the value added tax rate by five per cent, thus reducing the shadow economy, increasing turnover and wages in the sector. This is another contribution to the health of the people of the country, because any doctor who wishes you to live for 100 years will say, first of all, eat fruit, berries, vegetables! Now it will be made cheaper. The municipalities are not forgotten either. I am very pleased that, in discussions with local authorities, we have reached an agreement that local authorities are provided with tax revenues along with a special grant of 19.6 per cent of total tax revenues. This means better quality services at local level, more support for people. Colleagues! The Kučinska Government has kept its promise following the tax reform approved by the Saeima this summer. In the 2018 budget we have not planned new tax changes. The tax reform created by close cooperation between government experts and non-governmental organisations will enter into force on 1 January next year, and I have seen this reform as a vitamin for strengthening our economy and as a responsible step towards every citizen in Latvia, reducing the unjust burden of inequality. We have talked about the benefits that the tax reform will bring to households and businesses, long and wide-ranging but, and that is important, we have demonstrated that we are capable of ensuring the much-needed stability of taxes. Next year work will continue on reducing the shadow economy by introducing time accounting, general agreement and responsibility in the construction process in the construction sector. Next year, special attention will be paid to paying envelope salaries directly to the security sector. The work done so far to combat the shadow economy has also delivered first results. We managed to complete last year with a positive budget. This year, too, we see a smaller budget deficit at the end of the year than was planned. During the first nine months, tax revenues have been 75 million higher than at the beginning of the year when planning the budget. The next year, full capacity will act as one very important driver of economic development, namely targeted investments financed by the European Union fund in the Latvian economy. In the next year's budget, we have earmarked more than EUR 1.2 billion for investment in projects in various sectors, which will, of course, move investment and allow the economy to grow. Dear Members of the Saeima! By voting in favour of the 2018 budget, you will support a sound, intelligent plan that will ensure both the ongoing reforms in the area of health, the external and internal security of our country, and the promotion of demographics and economic growth. The budget for next year, together with the tax reform and the investments of the European Union funds, will strengthen our country and place Latvia among the fastest growing economies in the European Union. The budget for 2018 will make our country and society healthier, stronger; this is particularly important in the age we live in. Latvia must continue to grow and develop within the framework of Western civilisation, in the community of democratic and legal states. A healthy, strong and satisfied nation is the main strategic asset of any country, so I also call on you to support the draft budget for 2018. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U67	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the Group of the Regions of Latvia - Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U68	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored Leader of Government! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Highly honored people’s preeminences and honored people’s servants! For the work of each government, we have always found some characteristic word: 'development', 'growth','reform'. In the past, the government led by Mrs Straujuma, unfortunately, had the word 'failure government'. Then we cannot completely avoid the word'hypocrisy' for the characterisation of the Kučinskis government. Although there are good things in the budget, however, I will try to briefly tell you about a number of arguments, why it is “formity” that we are forced to say without wanting to mention the progress made by the Kučinski Government in relation to the budget for 2018. First of all, quotas. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you remember very well the previous year. At that time, all day, and also night, we were forced to be here - long, yes, I admit - also to a large extent because of my fault (Interface: “You weren’t the only one!” ), because I asked you to vote in favour of every proposal that, in my opinion, looked after the quota. And basically there were quotas as well. In any case, it is a joy that we have learned. ( Milestones.) Breaks have already been foreseen this year in relation to last year's experience. When we look at the budget in the family today, as far as I can see, we will work no longer than 18.30 a.m. There will be a break until tomorrow. It's a joy. However, ladies and gentlemen, quotas are hypocritically hidden - smarter, smarter! - Ministry budgets. And it has already been mentioned to us in summer by the heads of several municipalities, who told us that members of the Saeima and ministries are being asked what would then be the topical things that should be placed in the ministries' budgets in good time. Also on the new initiatives in ministerial budgets... When we looked at this issue in the commission responsible, there was often a situation where not government officials explained it, but the parties concerned and the ministries concerned... Well, the same ministries that lead the person in the party... The Members of this party also explained what was then really meant by those new initiatives. The conservation fund for the Sacred Heritage is indeed, in my view, a good act in response to criticism of quotas. Next year, one million are intended to arrange the buildings of the sacrals, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is once again a little hypocritical, because it is for only one year. So, Christians like this for one year: after the next Saeima elections, let us look! 500 thousand are also intended for creative persons - a good initiative that can be truly supported. But again, only for one year. The Ministry says: "Well, we cannot predict more, because next year the financial space will be smaller." It was just about half a million. At the same time, we are conducting an experiment in another area of 18 million at once: within three years, 18 million, so six million each year, we will devote to reducing VAT on vegetables, fruits and berries specific to Latvia. An initiative to support, of course! But can we really afford to pay so much in the form of an experiment? I still think it would perhaps be wise to experiment with, for example, organic farming, which would really be healthy and cultivated here in Latvia. But these are my personal thoughts. Funding of boarding schools. We all know that the law now provides for the transfer of the maintenance of these schools to municipalities. And this problem was also mentioned before we looked at the referral of draft laws to the commissions. Mr Šadurski came to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission sitting and it was a miracle: we found a compromise. The coalition council assessed and we are making a one-year transition. Accordingly, the national and local authorities will be proportionately responsible for providing this funding for school maintenance next year. In general, the delegation in the Law on the Establishment of a Minimum Number of Pupils in Schools shows to a large extent their common system that we try to put everything on the shoulders of the Cabinet of Ministers, but here in the Saeima, we do not really decide anything. And often, the supporters of governments hypocritically - I'm sorry! - I think there's something to decide here, even though everything is actually decided on by the Coalition Council. Unfortunately, that is what it is. Road Foundation. We have just received a question from public organisations: does our group support the renewal of the Road Fund? Of course we support it! But, ladies and gentlemen! The Law clearly black to white it is written: “The financing of the State budget for the programme “National Road Fund” shall consist of the projected revenue of the state budget from vehicle operating tax, road user tax and 80 per cent of the projected revenue of the state budget from excise duty on petroleum products, unless the annual state budget law provides otherwise.” And this condition - "unless the annual state budget law provides otherwise" - will continue for at least six years since I am in the Saeima and even longer. Yeah, we're giving a little funding, 25 or a little more... the Minister for Finance can fix me - how much we give. At the same time, overall funding for the road network is decreasing. Is that not hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen? Health care. The Minister for Finance has just mentioned that almost 200 million have already been allocated by the government. But, ladies and gentlemen, this money is not yet available! Firstly, the Saeima has not yet decided on this, and secondly, we still have to wait for the answer from the European Commission. In fact, the government hypocritically always says that its money has already been allocated. The Ministry of Health seems to have been! But in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, when we looked at this issue, the coalition Members also repeatedly pointed out that these figures are mixed in such a way that they cannot understand: what is right then? The Ministry of Finance has one, there are others in the draft law, each Member has another. We still do not know exactly how these funds are - very significant funds! - will be used to improve healthcare. On solving the issues of the apartment. Only 300 thousand were committed, and the Members immediately asked: "Why are so few 300 thousand?" Really little! We received an explanation: “It’s just about administration.” 300,000 for the administration of this function! The national apparatus is not reduced at the internal level but is still growing. The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia does not accept these large expenditures in public administration and the extra funds allocated to ministries, which will only increase the bureaucratic burden. We are always hearing from different people that within the ministries... It is essentially the same system of allowances or another system of party ownership where funds are traded in one way or another. At the end of each project there is some benefit. There are fewer people left, more officials. Yes, in this budget, we welcome the fact that demographics are also being thought of. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough! And I would like to quote President Zatlers: “We may not be fully aware of the devastating consequences of negative demographic processes. I believe that this is the main reason why there is still no policy of action to halt the imminent disaster. There is no national response and strategy to this challenge, but it is dangerous to postpone the search for a solution until the economic situation improves. We have to look for this right now! This is a question of the existence of the country and, at the same time, of national security. The political elite’s dominant desire to spend public money on everyday trifles can destroy Latvia’s future.” ( End quoted) More recently, I think that CERTUS proposed a number of scenarios relating to the population forecast, namely the population in 10-20 years' time. Within Latgale region, I remember two scenarios were considered: "realist" - that after a certain time the population will decrease by 60 thousand, and "optimistic" - by 40 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen! Neither “real” nor “optimistic” (to be put in traces!) neither is content with me nor, I hope, with any other Member elected from Latgale electoral district, nor with anyone representing another region where these demographic figures are most tangible. And finally, raising the minimum wage. Of course, all of us, including the opposition Members, are in favour of the fact that every citizen in Latvia lives better, better and better, and has more money in his pocket. However, the government hypocritically reinstates this well - thought idea on the shoulders of business. For, on the one hand, the government has provided for an increase in the minimum wage in its own budget figures, but on the other hand, it also requires that the wage be raised for other employees who receive a higher salary (i.e. that the host does not receive the same amount as the deputy head). However, what should the municipalities do, which will have to raise minimum wages, but which cannot afford to raise the rest of the wage as well? And finally, what should entrepreneurs do? Because, on the one hand, their employees on television hear a government promise: “You will have a minimum wage and you will start to live better.” They go to the businessman, but the businessman can't... They're 50 euros... so to say, lift up within one year... The Ministry says there will now be stability. Mr Kučinska stands for such a new guarantee of stability for the next three years. Well, but maybe then let's look further. Perhaps we will increase immediately by the minimum wage of EUR 150 for the next 10 years, and then there will be stability in our country! Ladies and gentlemen! Again, I say: I think this is hypocrisy. Because how can the head of government take responsibility for the next three years? A year later, there will be a new Saeima and, most probably, a new government. In this case, Mr Kučinski cannot take responsibility for what will be decided in this house after a year, which will be decided in the government after a year. In essence, he is also impassening the next Saeima and the next government because, on the one hand, he will have to honour the promises made by Mr Kučinskis, but on the other hand, they will not be able to change anything either, because, for example, that promise has been made. And if they think they need to change at that point, they will get the greatest criticism. It is they who will receive the greatest criticism, not Mr Kučinskis, and the entire government, which is now raising this minimum wage at once for EUR 50. Entrepreneurs have said: “OK, let’s go! We're predicting 20 euros every year, no more. That is, next year - 20 euros, then - another 20 euros, then - 10 euros!" It may be that in that third year we will also be able to raise 20 euros, but we will only be able to see this in two years' time, not now, from this point of view, from this platform. This budget is still with higher expenditure than revenue, so I think it is hypocritical to say that we are beginning to live better because our debt is still high. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget, I think, many of you, many of us, perhaps I too, have the last budget to judge, to decide which one to discuss or to improve. I call for not hypocritical hiding behind the backs of the group leaders, but for a responsible assessment of every bill, every figure in the ministry's budget and for a responsible submission of its proposals. The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, in general, does not support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U69	Mr. Viļuma, your speaking time is over. on behalf of the Group. - Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U70	Highly honored Presidium! Dear Members, Honourable Members! The first reading of the draft budget is more than that. It is, in fact, an economic debate, as we are having a foreign policy debate at the end of January. What indicators do we have before the new economic year? The number of workers has still not reached pre-crisis levels. Although unemployment is lower than the years of crisis, it is still higher than before the crisis, when it was 6.5 percent. The current level is twice that recommended by the OECD, which sets standards for social and economic development in the world. The high unemployment rate is not reduced by the very high number of emigrants during the crisis, which, according to various estimates, reaches 13 per cent of Latvia's population. The uneven distribution of income indicator - Gini coefficient - is still one of the largest in the European Union. The risk of poverty and the degree of social exclusion is very high in the Republic of Latvia and shows that about 30 percent of the population are exposed to it. Thus, the clinical picture of Latvia's economic and social situation remains worrying. A lot was said about Latvia's interest in the post-crisis international borrowing programme. Little was said to mean that consistent implementation of the programme meant a sharp reduction in public expenditure in all sectors without exception. A strong austerity policy was legally enshrined in the Intergovernmental Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, or fiscal compact, of which our country was first among the signatories. But in the legislation of the Republic of Latvia strict austerity measures were in fact strengthened and justified in the Law on Fiscal Discipline. The forecast presented by our group before the fiscal compact signature, namely that the policies of the European Commission and the Latvian governments will not allow the country to start investments in infrastructure, science, education and the growing demographic challenges, to the extent necessary, has proved to be correct. This policy serves to strengthen the dominance of European economically developed exporting countries and to stabilise banks, not to create jobs and develop a real economy. The strict deficit constraints imposed, in turn, meant economic stagnation (as in the euro area as a whole) and poverty and emigration for the people of Latvia. In Latvia's circumstances, only economic growth based on national direct investment in production can ensure financial stability. Not a deficit or surplus, but a current account, a competitiveness indicator, is the most effective way to predict which euro area countries will enter into the crisis. Countries that do not have their own strong export industry and are forced to eat from products from other countries are going bankrupt sooner or later. In the second quarter of this year, the Latvian current account balance ratio was equal to minus three percent. However, it should be borne in mind that the calculation of the current account also includes the funds that we receive from the European Union's structural funds. Therefore, the external trade balance would be more expressive. This is also negative. This year, the deficit has increased to 27 per cent. It is a black sign for the competitiveness of Latvia's economy. What is the government proposing to improve the situation? We see the reform of the tax system as a decisive tool that our group has supported. We have encouraged this reform for four consecutive years and will continue to follow developments in order to put forward proposals in good time to strengthen and optimise the reform. But that brings us to an end, because we believe that the rest of the measures are being used by the government as attempts to avert the problem rather than to address it. What do we offer? Latvia must take advantage of the investment opportunities provided by the government deficit and invest in production creation. Misunderstood austerity, without investing in production, will once again lead to the inability to export sufficiently and to the current account deficit and, ultimately, to the next possible bankruptcy. Following World War II, the Marshall Plan was based on a clear understanding that the rebirth of Germany requires industry. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) This position was also reinforced by the 1948 Havanna Charter, in which UN Member States committed themselves to developing industrial resources and raising productivity standards for full employment. This objective has long been set. Neither the European Union wants to talk about this, nor the Latvian governments. However, the policy constants highlighted well in the Havanna Charter remain valid in the 21st century. We believe that the task of Latvia's economic policy must be to develop production, create new jobs and ensure social equality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Workplaces are created by entrepreneurs and not by government!” ) The current economic paradigm is based on budgetary policy, so the adoption of the budget is the main annual event in the Saeima. The budget lays down the limits on which economic policy is based. However, the opposite must be true: there must be proportions of economic development, indicators that must be provided with a budget. It is not the adoption of the budget, but the opening-up session of economic policy should be the main event of the year in the Saeima. We believe that this policy, which is carried out by the current government, leads us in the same direction - it will be able to improve the situation but will not provide the breakthrough set out in the Latvian National Development Plan. That is why we cannot support this draft budget for next year and will vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U71	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U72	Hello, dear colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister! Minister for Finance! Listening to the speech by the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, you can clearly feel proud: this is the historically largest state budget of Latvia - large, healthy and free of worms. But what about the truth? Let's look at one of the sectors - traffic! I will talk more specifically about roads. For example, recently the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, informed the public that 31 road sections have been identified as a priority for a study on the model of the optimal school network. Logic: When schools close, good ways are needed to let students go to more distant schools. In fact, we are replacing school buildings against the possibility of mobility, the possibility of moving people. Hence, roads play an extremely important role. Representatives of insurance companies also speak of roads. Let us remember that we have just rejected one lobbied draft law from insurers. They stress that for the time being there is absolutely no sign of improvement in the condition of roads and, consequently, a significant reduction in the number of road accidents, so almost all car owners are paying from their pocket even double this year. In the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima, the Ministry of Transport presented its plans. So, my colleagues, what is the situation and the prospect of going on safe and good roads? We're looking at the table. We see that, in previous years, thanks also to previous ministers, the European Union funds for road repair started to be used as soon as they appeared. In fact, the split was 50 to 50. Now, in 2017, we have 133 million euros from European Union funds, in 2019 this money ends. If we look at the table, 100 million "holes". This does not go hand in hand with the policies currently being pursued by both Mr Shadurski and others, because it is clear that, for reforms to be possible, both within the school network and elsewhere, we need better ways to move. The average road age in Latvia is 22 years, the elderly are 40-50 years old. Colleagues! Where will the necessary road repairs be financed? And here is the answer, which is also included in the budget package: the Roads Act. Maybe 10 million... So let's compare: 100 million pits and 10 million maybe... They will also be available on an additional basis and only on condition that gross domestic product exceeds the 5 per cent threshold at actual prices. Colleagues, like a lottery! Interesting proposals that were interesting to observe at the commission meeting and their reasoning. In fact, road financing in the law is put on the lottery. Colleagues! That, however, seems to me not to be serious. There is another Prime Minister who, meeting with voters in his country, said with compassion: “Well, you stay there in the regions! But we don’t have money!” Therefore, colleagues, amendments to the Road Act are necessary. I hope that both the LRA Group and perhaps others will table the following amendments (Dep. A.Kamiņš laughs.) to give a clear task to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Transport in a short time to prepare a specific offer on how to finance road repairs. And another remark. If you're talking about the budget as a whole, I tried to find it, but I didn't find it... no section such as megaprojects found. Namely, where is the money for railway electrification or for megaprojects like Conexus Baltic grid Incukalns gas storage? Colleagues! That is hundreds of millions of euros! And where will the government take money for such projects, which are probably even several percent of gross domestic product? Equivalent for example to the total budget of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia! I very much hope that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, who looks very busy at the moment, will come to the table and will be able to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U73	Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U74	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, Mr. Kučinski, ministers! Hello, colleagues! Today, I have three questions, of course, relating to education and sport, which I want to touch on. I hope I don't have two seconds. First of all, I am very pleased that the information provided by the Association of the Regions of Latvia and the painful questions asked about the funding of boarding schools have been heard and there is a reasonable expectation that boarding school students will not remain on the street. Last week, the Association of the Regions of Latvia pointed out shortcomings in the Education Law for boarding schools, and it took only one week for the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the Ministry of Education and Science and coalition parties, to finally notice that the time has come to take action so that boarding schools would not be closed in the middle of the school year. The question was precisely about the middle of the school year. This question did not fall as snow on the head - it was known to the officials already a year ago. Finally, the issue of the financing of municipal boarding schools and pre-school educational institutions from the state budget is addressed, because a number of municipalities in which these educational institutions are located have no means to take over the costs of maintenance from 1 January 2018. As a result, not only the process of teaching the current boarding students, but also their lives, their future, was threatened. And here's a small remark: at this point, by extending this deadline, you find the funds for exactly one year, we will resolve this issue for exactly one year. I think that the Ministry of Education and Science and the municipalities will have to do a great deal of work to find a solution this year in terms of funding - whether these educational institutions will have to be financed by the municipalities, or whether there should be partly funding provided by the ministries of Education and Science and by the state. Because it is clear that, in any case, the state will still have to find the means to support the maintenance of children in difficulty, whether they will study in boarding schools or general educational institutions. The only responsibility and responsibility of municipalities cannot and is not right for financing all the maintenance. Children whose parents have been placed in socio-economic disadvantaged status for various reasons also need additional support from the country, and the solution must be shared by all of us. And we are waiting for the answer - clear and understandable to all of us, recorded in the amending budget already to the next, last, reading before the adoption of the 2018 budget. The second issue, related to priority measures, is the additional funding allocated for 2018-2020, coded under item number one. This is about a social support programme for general education educators. This is, of course, a welcome step, but only on condition that reforms in education are pursued responsibly and sensibly. Therefore, the logical question arises: how correct and correct are the figures given in terms of calculation and amount of remuneration? If we look at what is written there, we see that in 2018 each of the 42 teachers affected by the reform meet 1307 euros per month for six months, in 2019 87 teachers - 713.2 euros per month, and in 2020 77 teachers - 555.57 euros per month. Question: "How accurate and correct is the calculation by the Ministry of Education and Science?" Will it not be that teachers applying for these social cushions will have more than an opportunity to provide these guarantees in accordance with the plan? Is there an estimate of the number of teachers in a given period that will lose their jobs as a result of the reform? Or are we already familiar with names and surnames for those who will remain unemployed? If so accurately counted, how many teachers will lose their job. There are many questions, and the Latvian Association of Regions wants to see guarantees that this social aid cushion will be available to all teachers who have lost their jobs due to this reform. And the third question in this section is about sport. Firstly, I must say that I am delighted that sport has a sufficiently large and stable budget for all these three years - a budget that provides a sense of stability for all our leading sports organisations, who in principle know that they will not be worse... Well, maybe not much better, but they will certainly exist, and in the sport sector everything will happen. But here again under this same section, there is a point in number six - additional investments for the implementation of sports infrastructure development projects of national importance. And there is a note: the implementation of major development projects of sports infrastructure in Latvia for Latvian citizens - EUR 5.9 million in 2018 and EUR 4 million in 2020. When we asked Edgar Sever, Director of the Sport Department of the Ministry of Education and Science, at the Sports Sub-commission of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science yesterday, the answer was rather strange: “When I give it, let’s decide!” It is likely that there should not be anything hidden here, but such an answer is unserious and irresponsible. Until there is a clear explanation of the funding and plan, a strategically based calculation, as well as answers to other questions asked by the Association of the Regions of Latvia, I call for this budget not to be supported. Colleagues, I call on everyone to think national and not to vote in favour. Do not approve the budget until it is developed with careful and full responsibility for the distribution and use of the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U75	Thank you. Name to Member Rihard Melgiel.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U76	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members of the Committee. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance praised the budget prepared for 2018, and I must say, indeed, there are also many good things for national defence, for demographic policy and for health care. The government is fulfilling its promises. However, the Latvian Association of Regions believes that many of the problems that have hit our country are not properly addressed. We do not see measures for regional development. And one of the main issues that Mr Smilten has already mentioned is the roads. Of course, there are, in the budget, some 24 million additional mentioned by the Minister for Finance, but I can give you one example. As soon as one municipal road was transferred to Vecumnieki municipality after the reconstruction using the funds of the European Union, the cost of one kilometre with design, authorial supervision, construction and construction supervision cost approximately 100,000. So for these 24 million, it is hardly possible to sort out the 300 kilometres that the minister has named. If we continue to work at this pace, the last few kilometres will be repaired when these repaires of the following year have already collapsed. We also do not see active measures to combat the shadow economy. A living example is the latest programmes on television about the cost of envelope pay, and that is our powerlessness to say that we really cannot do anything there. There are many problems in the countryside, and if we want to live there, we want to live in an orderly green environment. Waste management is also a problem. And when the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asked whether VARA had something planned for next year's budget, albeit for the introduction of a deposit system, the answer was - no. So we already reject this citizens' initiative. Last year, the Latvian Association of Regions drew the Saeima's attention to the fact that the tax reform package and this budget package include draft laws that... it refers to the budget in a relative way. Of course, there are fewer of them this year. But in our view, there are draft laws which, in due course, could have been examined in three readings already in general, and at the moment, we should not have to spend time; we could really do more to deal with budgetary issues. For example, amendments to the Tourism Law. Of course, the Association of Latvian Regions supports the tourism sector. This draft law is necessary both for service providers - because it increases the responsibility of these service providers - and for service recipients, because it increases the protection of travellers in the event of their insolvency. But what does it have to do with this year's budget? Only so much is said: in the case of repatriation, funds will be able to be covered by emergency funds. Such practices are bad and we also refer to them this time. Overall, the budget is unlikely to be one that will make society immediately stronger, safer and happier, whatever we all want. On behalf of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, I call for the draft budget not to be approved at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U77	Thank you. Member Mārtiņš Šics applied for the debate. Mr. Schitz, are you going to have seven minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Schics: “I will try!” ; Subscription: “Satisfy!” ) Is it enough? We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U78	President! Colleagues! When looking at the budget, I should like to thank you for the envisaged health sector. Thank you to the Prime Minister, not to the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health. Thank you for having reduced the VAT rate for healthy foods by 50 percent. Yes, last time I asked for this, my proposal was rejected. This time it has been adopted and is being pushed forward as a coalition proposal. Thank you. Thank you for solving the issue of rare diseases. In this context, I would like to mention in particular the patients with cystosis who may not now die at the age of 14-15, but who will live for up to 40 years with a certain diagnosis. However, I do not find anything in this budget that affects my areas of special interest. I can't see in any of the lines how rehabilitation will finally be provided for the Chernobyl people. Although the law provides for recovery to be made once a year, unfortunately, they are forced to wait two and a half to three years before the next health improvement. I also do not see that the budget would have provided for an increase in funding for science under the Research Act. The budget package also fails to state that the rules governing these rules have been suspended. However, healthcare is not only financed from the state budget; local authorities have a special role to play in financing this area. Yes, it is an autonomous function of municipalities. Article 15 - Local authorities must ensure access to healthcare. And here I will ask the Prime Minister to pay attention to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. In answer to that question, he explained the responsibility of local authorities for the maintenance and financing of treatment facilities. In that point, he wrote, which are these institutions, what part of the financing of health care should be provided by municipal funding and what functions should be covered in full. There is no regulatory requirement that part of healthcare should be covered. When will Latvian municipalities and new elected members receive recommendations and detailed explanations regarding the performance of the statutory function? In his reply, the Minister said that this clarification of access to health care mentioned above had been given by the United Nations and every municipality... municipalities themselves must see how to deal with it. And in the end, there is such a very peculiar statement by the Minister that, on that basis and on the basis of the United Nations explanation of the right to access to health care, they will not provide any information... Yeah... Next thing I want to say. Yes, the law on the financing of health care has been sent - a rock, unclear. It does not reflect pay and what the pay outlook for medical staff is. I do not believe that the Ministry of Health will justify the belief offered by the Prime Minister that the Ministry's knowledge and skills will provide it. I doubt that this is an opportunity because there is no discussion anywhere about and how the so-called contract between doctors and medical institutions will be discussed and paid. Who will pay, and whether the state budget will cover the choice of high-skilled service and specialist volunteers, service level, hotel services, catering and so on. There is no answer to whether or not there will really be a variety of low-wage beneficiaries to pay themselves. And on the investment chapter. Yes, there have also been irregularities and, in my opinion, violations of the law, because, for example, public investment from the Structural Funds is diverted from the budget to private bodies such as the Association of Prizes and Gulbene Hospitals. And in this case once again the surname Vāne, the minister's adviser (now external or informal). And these investments and projects do not mention the last thing that concerns me, the availability of emergency medical assistance. We are talking about bad roads, which are difficult to drive, and they are becoming worse and worse. We are talking about the fact that hospitals are centralized and that every patient is taken to the hospital much longer. But no! These indicators of achievement of the assistance are relevant in relation to the disease situation. And there is no word about how, according to the recommendations made by the World Bank at the time, the emergency network will be expanded so that rural indigenous people, the inhabitants of Latvia, will not be discriminated against the relatively richest city dwellers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U79	Thank you. So we will continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to read the results of the registration to a member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as the results of the registration have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U80	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis, Jānis Kžads, Ainārs Mežulis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Edwards Smiltēns... is Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U81	Thank you. Interruption until 5 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U82	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. And we shall continue the debate. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U83	Highly honored Prime Minister, who is not here! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I would like to say a few words about the budget for 2018 and the budget for the medium term - indeed great words of recognition for our government, for ministers who managed to create this balanced budget and to meet more or less, as far as possible, all sectors, taking into account these two big priorities - protection and health care. And there was a lot of concern... In my opinion, the fact that we adopted the tax reform in the summer was an extremely high risk - whether we will succeed in drawing up this budget in a bottom-up order, or whether we will lack this money. That was good news. Now, however, I would like to talk about other types of news to me, as Chair of the Public Health Sub-Commission, and to a medical doctor who is currently specialised in health care management. Since the summer, the Unity has in fact forced coalition partners to carry out tax reform in parallel with healthcare restructuring, taking into account this difficult situation. That is why I have read with great interest the section of the budget relating specifically to the health budget. And what did I find there as you think? I found that there were 800 million in 2016, 800 in 2017, 800 in 2018, 800 in 2019... And so until the end of our era! Also in 2020... There are these 800 million everywhere. You can make sure. This is in the explanatory notes to the draft law (Part Three, Section 29, page 796-797). Despite the fact that the Minister of Finance has told us here and is always being scandald that our budget will exceed billions next year, there are these 800 million everywhere! And that would be nothing yet. Also further down, all the money for all the needs, programs are divided from these 800 million. So, in principle, it's the same as in 2016. And that's what happens. I am told: “You don’t understand the budgeting methodology! It must work, it must do it!” Dear colleagues! Neither I nor any of you will be able to... we will not be able to show the methodology to patients or doctors who are on the brink of extreme despair. We simply need to show the real figures in the budget, show that it will be better, that there will be these salaries and that there is this appendix, and that there is this hope. Go on. I began to look for where the extra money was, and I find it in a completely different place in the explanatory notes to the draft budget (Part Four, Section 74, page 198). And there, just behind budgetary contingency - it is almost 46 million - there is funding for health system reform, almost 190 million. That's where the numbers are! But, honourable colleagues, these almost 200 million are one number in the budget. So we are asked to vote for the amount of money, for one figure that goes well beyond the Latvian cultural budget. The Minister of Finance read in his report how much money and where the medicine will be diverted, what improvements will be. I have the impression that we have one explanation of the budget for the Members of the Saeima and another for the Government, because there is nothing to be able to understand how much extra money there will be for salaries and how many lines to cut in the budget. It just doesn't! The fact that we need to show people these improvements to believe them is nothing yet. It turns out that at the beginning of next year, the Ministry of Health will prepare a report on how to distribute this money without our participation, and the Cabinet will legalise it, will accept it without our participation. How can we confidently guarantee patients and doctors that it will really be better? Perhaps there will be another minister - in theory, but everything is possible - and will set other priorities. At the beginning of this year, the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and the Subcommittee on Public Health heard the State Audit Office's report on the audit of the Ministry of Health in the field of outpatient healthcare provision. And one of the conclusions was that out of the 36 regulatory documents drawn up by the Ministry of Health, 31 were not fulfilled. And now 29 of us Members are members of the Oncological Patient Support Society. In May 2017, the Government adopted a plan to improve healthcare services in oncology for 2017-2020, which contains figures, under which is the signature of Māra Kučinska. The Minister for Health simply ignores this. It just doesn't work. And how... Is that so? Therefore, I believe that any reform, so that we can trace how useful the funds have been spent - whether this drawing of money has produced results or not - should be the data in the budget documents. Yes, I understand, perhaps there are some budgetary principles, but no one prevents all of this from being recorded in the explanatory notes on the state budget. Because what the Minister for Health has brought to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the honourable members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, is simply paper, as our colleagues in Brussels say. No title or signature. Nothing may be required after such a sheet has been relied upon. The explanations of the budget must reflect all this, and that will be my proposal too. His first reading... Of course, it is a pleasure that these 199 million are in the budget documents, but on the other hand to second reading... without explanations and without distribution of money greater than the cultural budget, cannot be accepted without our participation. I believe that this issue needs to be addressed and the budget should reflect which measures will be implemented from the conceptual report on the reform of the healthcare system approved by the government. If you remember, this report was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 394 on 7 August this year. It reads: “The question about the financial resources needed to implement the solution set out in the conceptual report is to consider the medium-term national tax policy guidelines, the draft law “On the State Budget for 2018” and the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020”. The Ministry of Health has not complied with this order of the Cabinet of Ministers and is forcing us to vote in favour of this increase in health care funding - this one figure. Therefore, my proposal will link it to this conceptual report. And there, honourable colleagues, there are comprehensive tables that show where and how much money is needed in addition to medical treatment, medicine, medical education, medical wages. All of this must be included in the budget documents, all of this is a place in the budget's explanations, and without this I think, at second reading, the budget with a poor health chapter will not be accepted. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U84	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U85	Good afternoon, everybody again! Mr. Prime Minister, good afternoon! Minister for Finance, good afternoon! I will take the opportunity to address you today, because tomorrow, I understand you won't be sitting, I think. ( Internouncing call.) You can't really hear me, don't you? That's okay! The key to the stenogram is. I understand that Latvia is a very rich country. And it's not a lie! We are indeed a very rich country. First of all, the President of the Bank of Latvia Rimšēvičs is the best-paid bank employee in European countries - he receives 150 thousand euros a year. And that is very good because we are indeed a very rich country. But! Mrs Kučinski, we talked to you, I think two weeks ago, then you told me that there would be nothing in this budget from Members' quotas. That's what it was? It was! But I found it. Its Members' quotas are now known as appropriations and all sub-programmes. I can’t imagine how you, the ministers here, will be able to attend one of the performances of the New Riga Theatre, because from the agency State Real Estate... from the money that is intended for the agency “State Real Estate” and for which the new Riga Theatre needs to be restored - EUR 1 million 320 thousand - is allocated... Well, the Minister for Finance grants... You're a chess-related man, aren't you? You're in the Latvian Chess Federation, aren't you? You're not? But, as can be seen in the declaration, you received at least EUR 1000 in 2016... You got it! So if you want to, it happens that your Ministry gives 95 thousand euros to the Latvian Shaha Federation, with which you really have a connection. And let's take it, Rasmann... Where's Rasmann? ( Internouncing call.) Rasmanis is the head of the Latvian Motosports Federation... Sorry, member of the federation. It is allocated EUR 350 000. ( Interface: ‘ Are you talking about the whole budget package together? ’ ) Yes, I am talking about everything together. So 350 thousand euros are allocated to the Federation represented by Rasmann. And all this comes from the budget of the New Riga Theatre, which this theatre needs so that the people of the theater can restore their house to the end! I do not understand how the Minister for Culture could have allowed something like that! ( Internouncing call.) All this is really about tomorrow's agenda, but we have few such guests, Putra! So let's... I'll combine the pleasant with the useful. What is calling into question me when it comes to this budget. Mr Kučinski, do we really need another council called the Sacred Heritage Council, to which is now allocated, if I am not mistaken, 1.5 million? But what is the State Cultural Monument Protection Inspectorate doing? Why do you need to duplicate its function? Each church is also a protected object for us as a cultural value, but tomorrow the same apparition will be awarded directly to the churches concerned at 0.5 million. That's 2 million in total. Something's going on... Of course, you will not find Members' quotas here. It won't be written as it was last time... I don't know - to the President or a member of the Latvian Bridge Federation... The debtor, right? I mean, you're in this Brijs Federation of Latvia, right? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “No, I am!” ) You were! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “No, I wasn’t!” ) You were! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “No, I wasn’t!” ) And last year your proposal was to allocate five thousand euros to the Bridge Federation of Latvia. That's how it was, but I remember it! We can also talk about the cheese books that were last year and which were also given money by the Saeima - cheese books! At the moment, that's the thing that you're... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “It’s not today’s agenda!” ), the thing is that 28 million were last year... Dear Solvita Āboltiņš, who also visits theatres (in my opinion, for free) (Interestly: “For free - that’s how?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “), that is, by invitation.... ( Insight: “The budget is speaking! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U86	Mr. Neighbouring, please speak on the draft budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U87	Yeah. And now, attention, Minister for Finance! Hey, who's tomorrow, isn't it... But I think you've met because that's the thing that I... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “The head of the sitting, he is not talking about the budget, but tomorrow’s agenda!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U88	Mr President, I call on you to talk about the draft budget, not about the agenda of tomorrow's Saeima sitting!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U89	I am talking about the 2018 budget. It's okay. Annual report of the Republic of Latvia on the implementation of the state budget and on municipal budgets for 2016. You're in the course of things, what's there? Are you? There, the State Audit Office cannot find half a billion from 2016. Half a billion! Half a billion cannot be found! In turn, the State Revenue Service under your supervision, which is... And it's in the report... The SRS has openly said: tax debts... “Although the total amount of tax debts on 1 January 2017 has decreased by four percent compared to 1 January 2016, taking into account the total amount of tax debts extinguished by SRS in 2016, the actual tax debt has increased by seven percent.” So we have a total of 11 percent. You know, we're a very rich country... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Just please do something about these amounts. I think this is a good budget. Of course, Mr Kučinski, it is as you say, that you cannot give everyone and so on. That is true: there will always be too little. Of course! But these things, which I pointed out, I think are actually systematically wrong, and that must not be the case. That's not right! And I would also like to focus on the amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service, which will now be after these long speeches... From 2016... This was the first time that needed EUR 54 500. EUR 54 500! Now it's just... It's a spit in the ocean. But today you, coalition, want to move from January 1, 2018 to January 1, 2020! I am sure that 50 percent of the current January 1, 2020 will not sit here anymore. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Sit elsewhere!” ) I would like to say that this is not really right. Maybe you should try and turn on the reverse. You can, after all, figure out some kind of parliamentary quota or something - because I do not have the opportunity to do so - and find this EUR 54 500. And no more criticism - well, no more. I would also like to mention, of course, the fact that it is rather smooth to make a wide range of electronic data registers that do not make friends with each other. For example, we know that e-health has cost 14 million. But it still doesn't work! And you know what's the funnyst thing? That in the e-health project 300 thousand euros computers have made their chat! Why do they have a chat if you all have WhatsApp chatting, how are you chatting, in SMS mode you're chatting?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why will e-health have an internal chat of EUR 300 000?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And it's not a lie, Mr. Berzin, we've been together in this sitting. See, right... ( Milestones.) Hence, such folly must be eliminated. And now the same will happen with a wide range of registers. You know what registers are, and I think there's more than 30 million in total for years. Well, see, I'm right. ( Minister for Finance, D. Reizniece-Ozola: “It’s not true!” ) Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U90	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U91	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen! Ministers! Members! First of all, I would like to express my gratitude and respect for those who have worked hard on the budget. But, of course, the world is so arranged that there will always be critics. And we need light heads, but hard words to criticise their work. As the criticism quotas have been exhausted, however, I have one issue of dedication for those who will work on this draft budget and prepare it for the second reading. My question. There is a Board of Fiscal Discipline. It is against deficit increases and savings. Either we need to remove this board or we need to listen to it. In my opinion, the Prime Minister said in a very stylish and attractive way: "The voices are sounding... “ And it seemed to be about that advice. But this is by no means just a matter of money and fiscal categories. It is, however, a matter of style, of attitude and attitude, and of consistency, of which we are implementing policies. Yes, to violate discipline - it may be a charm and value if we do it beautifully, consciously, with ambition and ambition and know what will be about breakthroughs because of it. Otherwise, we simply do not break our commitment. Yeah, not for the first time, not for the last time. Because we created the Law on Fiscal Discipline and the Council on Fiscal Discipline, but now we say that all this is stupid! Yes! If perhaps you don’t like these reminders about “A gas on the floor!” ... Well, well, let's say, "Clear on the floor!" ... But in what name do we commit these abuses? Will there be investments or innovations from this budget... out of these fiscal discipline infringements? Will there be productivity? We do not see that. There is talk about health care. Yeah, for now... Let it work! But for the time being, it's a mist. The Minister for Finance said: yes, in 2018, let us both satisfy everyone, and then let us create savings and a budget for the deficitless. Does that happen, then, that one budget has enough resources for everyone and that we can then start making savings? And that is why I recall the question of this consistency, of the consistent position of keeping the budget out of deficit and saving. Where to save? We'll find it. All right, let's liquidate even the same Fiscal Discipline Council if its recommendations are not significant. And not for the first time, but on several occasions, there has been such confrontation with this council. Well, of course, it will sound absurd, but I would say: I would be grateful if someone came with an explanation that is the basis for this already permanent conflict between the Fiscal Discipline Council and the government's budgetary perspective. Because really... either its board must be dissolved or, nevertheless, its recommendations must be taken into account and the budget must be adjusted. I wish this budget every success, both in this Saeima and, above all, after all in life. And for the vote. We took that question with the vote on 'abstention' at the last sitting of the Saeima! If there is now a balance option for this budget to vote more in favour than a 'no', then I would use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U92	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U93	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Prime Minister! Government representatives! Finally, this is happening: finally, there is a bear of happiness in our Parliament and we have received the budget! There may be a lot of dikts to discuss on one position or the other, but overall, it should be noted that growth has been established, there are some positive features. Not 20 years ago, and we can make progress in health care. The concept of compulsory health insurance was adopted by the government as early as April 1995 and we have now finally achieved something. When NATO joined, we decided that two per cent of GDP would be defence. And look, not 13 years ago, we have reached this level. But also without irony, there are a lot of good things that can be seen in the budget. And you can talk about it only positively, if there were no few (or more) tar spoons in that budget, in that honey pot. Mr. Kaimiņa already touched on the issue of amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service. And, you know, it was interesting to watch and look at the attention of our members of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption yesterday because we inherited this bill from the previous Saeima, and it is not the first time that it enters into force from year to year. You know that we are a rich country, but EUR 50 000 for the social rehabilitation of prisoners (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “54!” ), Prime Minister, we cannot find us from year to year. How does that come? And nobody can explain how the state budget will be affected by the 50 000 being directed towards making prisoners probably more criminalised. And how much money will we spend to catch their potential criminal again? Next. My fellow Members can already be congratulated on the fact that the concerns and concerns of the President of our neighbouring country have been met that the long-term residence permit programme has been abolished. That was what he spoke a few years ago. Now the program will cross. When this programme was active, the State received more than EUR one and a half billion in the budget. If the number of requests in previous years was around 2.5 thousand, there are now only 64 applications. Cross over. Where will this finance come from our eastern neighbours? To Cyprus, Bulgaria, Portugal and also to our neighbour, Lithuania, as strange as that. But we don't need this... The Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola recently, has not passed a year, promised that the State Revenue Service will implement a pilot project that concerns wage reform. It's time. I would like to hear how this pilot project is then being implemented because it was promised from this troupe that after the trial rabbit, that is to say, the State Revenue Service... that after wage increases in SRS, the single wage system will also be reviewed. And here we come to agenda item 18 - Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions - which provides for an increase in the remuneration of judges. Mr Prime Minister and Minister for Finance! Colleagues! Is it ethical to consider this issue if tomorrow a judgment of the Constitutional Court on this issue will be adopted? What are we talking about? Then let us cancel back what we have accepted and let us implement some time. Perhaps let us be honest about the fact that the single wage system has never really worked for us, and there are institutions to which all this does not apply? There are exceptional cases. Now, the issue that has also been touched on by Mr Razuka - on the national budget and the principles of its creation. You know that it is difficult for a person who is not prepared to direct this budget - the one that is written there. Today, too, we have looked at the defence budget and there is one position in the defence budget - the implementation of the State Defence Policy - which is regulated by another law that defines what the Ministry of Defence is responsible for. It turns out that national defence policy costs us only 12 million. Mr. Bergmann, where's the rest of the money? We have already agreed that we will obviously change this position. And unfortunately it does not only affect the Ministry of Defence. Without special preparation, there can be no way out of the budget to understand how many people are in the central apparatus of one or the other ministry and whether there is time to reduce their number. Another point that I call on the government and also colleagues to think about is first and foremost. The question is very simple: security. The question is that we fulfil international obligations, namely that we allocate two per cent of gross domestic product to protection. If we did not want to do so, we should not have joined NATO! If we have signed this treaty, we must do it and there cannot be two thoughts. But, colleagues, the problem is that it is not possible at present to draw this dividing line and separate internal security from external security. And obviously a much more modern approach is needed if we try to address these issues in some way. And explain to someone on the street why, now that we give two percent of our protection, he doesn't feel secure about terrorist threats! Somehow, however, you have to understand and learn to combine all these issues together. And at the end. What are we talking about here and what changes to the budget are being discussed if, on the date on which the budget is presented, the officials responsible declare that there will be no change to the budget?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You can only talk about some minor changes within a single ministry. Well, please explain to me the point of putting forward proposals, of proposing something if it is already known from the outset that these proposals will not even be dealt with, whether they are good or bad. ( Independence: “It will be examined! And rejected!’ ) If we are talking about the development of the country, then perhaps we will take this heavy weight out of the government so that the people's servants will finally become the people's servants, not the people of coalitions and governments! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U94	Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U95	Good evening, Presidium! Good evening, ministers! Prime Minister! I'm not going to talk for a long time, but I want to touch on two areas: the school network and the roads. I think that the development or optimisation of the network of primary and primary schools should be left to municipalities only. The Minister for Education and Science insists that the minimum number of pupils should also be fixed in primary and primary schools, but adds that his role is to think about children's education, not about municipalities. Unfortunately, there are contradictions here. In determining the minimum number of pupils, it is quite clear that many schools, especially in the regions, will have to be closed, as they simply do not have the required number of children in individual classes. This will not improve the quality of education for children in any way, but will reduce access to education. Children will have to travel to schools in neighbouring regions, spend their free time with them; parents, whatever their promises, will have to spend money on transport. I understand that Mr Shadursky is a mathematician, but I think that such a poor mathematical approach to the issue of the network of primary and primary schools is not right. Local governments have more opportunities to approach this issue individually, each municipality is better familiar with the situation in its territory than the Ministry of Education and Science and is able to predict demographic indicators in the region. It is therefore logical to leave the regulation of the number of schools to municipalities. The second point, in my opinion, is the development of the road network. Latvia's way, I'm not afraid to say, saving needs one and a half billion euros. A National Road Fund has now been set up, with €25 million next year. Over many years, the planned national budget funding differs significantly from actual funding. Last year, for example, out of the EUR 113 million planned, the actual funding was 57 million. This year 144 million were planned, but there are real 64 million. And let us not forget, too, that funding from European funds is falling sharply every year! The cohesion fund will be just under €38 million next year, compared with €76 million this year. There will be no co-financing from the Cohesion Fund in 2020 or from the ERDF. With this approach, not only can the road network not be developed, but it cannot even be properly maintained. The road network is deteriorating every year. We need to start thinking about our own infrastructure, and no one will do it for us. Do we want to have normal infrastructure in our country, do we not? Do we want the young unemployed who are working in the road construction sector this year, or do we want these workers to leave? It is only up to us. The Group calls for this budget not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U96	Name to Member John Ruck.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U97	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Ministers! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. I will talk about the draft law accompanying the budget - an amendment to the law on assistance in the area of apartment issues. The amendment to the law is a noble objective, addresses an important problem and is certainly welcome. The question is just one: where does the funding for this programme come from - assistance for the purchase of housing for families with children and young professionals? In the current draft budget, funding is provided for payments from temporary residence permits, which would be used to provide a state guarantee on a bank loan for the purchase of housing or construction. The draft budget developers - unconsciously or intentionally - ignore the current situation because Ilze Briede, Head of the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, admits that the programme of temporary residence permits has actually ended. Statistics are as follows: in 2014 - 2500 requests, this year - 68. The fall is significant and there is no reason to change. It is clear that there will be insufficient funding and that the aid could be lost. If the desire to support families with children and young professionals is true, not formal, then my proposal is to allocate the necessary funds from the national budget. Otherwise, it resembles Santa Claus, who calls to count a poem on a treasure, knowing well that the gift bag is already empty. These will be the current empty promises, which will result in the loss of both new families and specialists. Dear colleagues, I call for the support of families with children and young professionals by planning stable funding from the national budget so that this support can be guaranteed, rather than unpredictable, by an illusory promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U98	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U99	Hello! I call for this budget to be supported as the best possible one on our current value scale and public awareness. I will begin with an introduction and express my personal and different views. The study of sociologists and psychologists shows that if the majority, seeing a red tomato, claims it is a red apple, then many also agree that it is a red apple, not a red tomato. We have subconscious programmed to join the majority. And those people who say, “The king is naked!” or like Jordano Bruno: “And yet it turns!” Fortunately, today we do not burn on the pink, but try to make an idiot or to exclude it from the party. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “This is about the project!” ) We are a hundred people who have mastered a wide range of professions, but good if five of us have experience in managing large organisational structures, planning, controlling their work in order to achieve the goals set. All right, five! The view of the majority is quite different. As a person with experience in managing, controlling dozens of companies, including with foreign capital, I would like to say that the way we draw up our budget is at an early stage. Our way of drawing up the budget is at an early stage! I do not believe that without rhetoric someone in this room would be able to answer, with what aim we will spend the tax payments of citizens in 2018. The lack of such a goal is our whole common problem, the problem of each party. THAT is the goal, not for a BIG, nor for our country as a whole (Interim: “There is a Blessing! Don’t talk!” )... Yeah... There's no... Be honest! Every experienced organizer will say that first there is a goal, a vision, then there is a strategy to achieve this goal, then there is an action programme, and only then! - there is a budget whose nature is to ensure that the action plan is implemented. We have a budget at this point in time. For us, it is not whether and how the Prime Minister will implement the programme of action that will do what he has undertaken to do, but whether the Saeima will approve the budget. If the budget is not approved, the government will fall. So, for us, it is not what the Prime Minister does, but what the reality with money will be. Second. As I said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have represented the interests of companies and owners in the adoption of the budget. And then the budget was shown in detail where every sant goes, every toilet paper was indicated... I do not understand how the interests of citizens can be represented if we do not see where and to whom every cent of euros, every euro, goes. Thirdly. This actually applies to the budget of almost any ministry, not just the Ministry of Health. The budget of the Ministry of Health is mostly a lobby budget - trade union lobby, pharmaceutical entrepreneurs, family doctors, medical business... and only then - the budget of citizens' interests. According to the data of the Ministry of Welfare, from 2014 till 2016 50,000 cases have increased morbidity. More than EUR 50 million has been paid in kind. This indicates that the nation is getting sicker, not healthier. The health budget in 90 percent is a fight against the consequences - disease treatment. But the protection of the interests and health of the population, as defined in the Constitution, is final. In my opinion, if health protection were also a business that can earn millions of dollars, some concrete steps would finally have appeared in this health budget, so that people would start to suffer less. The excessive influence of the Lobby is not just our problem; it is also the whole of the European Union and the US... Even the President pointed out the undesirable effects of these lobbyists. And the same problem as we have in Latvia is all over the European Union: people are getting ill, but money is not enough, because in fact we are already lobbying the interests of producers and not the interests of citizens. And the last, the worst. One person working in the economy maintains two and a half pensioners, teachers, police officers, municipal workers, and state institutions. Our demographic situation is not the best. What happens next? How many will continue to support those working in the economy? More than 370 thousand Latvians have left the country. We have a debt of 10 billion. The budget is not enough to carry out all public functions. That budget is too low! Our country is moving slowly and forcefully towards bankruptcy and the destruction of the Latvian people. I'm sorry we can't see it! No steps have been taken to stop this move. The only way we can solve this problem is through economic development, job creation. I'm sorry, I can't see vigorous steps. In order to develop the economy, we need to create new jobs. Even today, when I look at the Commission on European Affairs, as we master the European Union's funds, I do not see anyone there worried that, in fact, our economy is passing away in a slow spirit. I have a great request for most thinkers - change thinking! We see that the king is naked! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Why can he talk about nothing, but stop me?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Untie your sleeves to work together and sort out your own land. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, fill your duty!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U100	Continue the debate, Mr Nanozol, or give the floor to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U101	I have a great request, Mrs Inara, for you to keep the Chamber quiet. ( Insight: “You have a duty not to talk to the grass! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U102	Whether you should continue the debate, Mr Nunozol, or give the floor to the next speakers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Brigman, get yours!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U103	Please keep the Chamber silent so that I can finish my speech. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can go as far as we want!” ) Execute your duty! ( Interface: “Six more minutes! ” ) Six minutes remains, yes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Why don’t you have a jacket today?” ) I apologize, do you not want to look at yourself from outside? Look in the mirror!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U104	Mr Nunozole, I am calling for either to continue the debate or to give the floor to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U105	Okay, I'm done. Don't bother me, please, to finish the speech, huh? We're good owners in our land! I call for this budget to be supported - the best possible on our current scale of values and public awareness.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U106	Thank you, Mr Nunozole, I invite you to read and follow the order book of the Saeima, Articles 72, 73 and 74, as the rest of the Saeima have observed. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U107	Ladies and gentlemen! On Monday, the Chair of the Board of Fiscal Discipline gave a speech at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, where I did not participate, but watched the hearing on television. Madam Minister, you probably know, John Platai. And this wise man said the truth of the economy, which is simple enough and understandable for people who do not have an economist's education, namely that in good times, spending must be reduced by creating savings to be able to spend in difficult times. I will not begin to question the opinion of the honourable Minister of Finance that this year not yet, but soon the good times will come in Latvia, when ministry spending will have to be reduced, but now these expenditures are still being increased. How is this in the proposed draft budget? What do you think the ministry is going to do with the greatest increase in expenditure? ( Subtotal: “Health! ”) ) In the Prime Minister's speech, we heard that the priorities are public safety and health. The increase in expenditure of the Ministry of Health is EUR 29,6 million. The increase in Foreign Ministry expenditure is EUR 126.8 million in rounding. However, there is a ministry whose expenditure growth exceeds both of these ministries, and it is the Ministry of Finance. There you go! Last year, in terms of expenditure, the Ministry of Health hurried ahead of the Ministry of Finance, but this year the Ministry of Finance has overcame the expenditure of the Ministry of Health. And if so, then something doesn't quite go together. It slightly reminds us of the recent times when we were offered as penguins to squeeze our back together, while the offeror himself found another place to force his back. It reminds us of the slogan: “We will be saved!” , meaning: “You, the residents of Latvia, will be saving, but for us ministers, you can see the whole beak with wages, especially when compared with Norwegian and Swiss ministers.” It may already be that the increase in expenditure of the Ministry of Finance is really aimed at increasing the welfare of Latvian citizens, but today the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will speak for some reason. Well, I look, Mr Putra will come to my platform and he will probably explain to us how valuable the impact of this increase in expenditure from the Ministry of Finance on the Latvian economy is. However, when I look at the proposed draft law, I will, however, pay particular attention to the expenditure associated with the expenditure of the Ministry of Finance, and I call on you, colleagues, to do so too. Let the Ministry of Finance act not only in words but also in actions according to fundamental economic principles. The other thing I want to say. Wages. At the previous sitting, it was said that populist proposals to raise wages came from the opposition. But what do we see in the proposed draft budget, which, as we know, does not come from the opposition? I have studied in more detail only the salaries of public sector employees under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Overall, an increase in wages is expected on average around 15 per cent, which is clearly ahead of the expected increase in nominal gross domestic product. The payment corresponds to productivity - this principle can be applied to the private sector, but not to public officials. Unreasonably raising wages in the public sector will lead to pay mismatches in productivity in the private sector. This gives rise to the Prime Minister's voice to question the stability of Latvia's economy. In my opinion, such doubts are not entirely unfounded, and the proposed draft budget does not reduce these doubts. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U108	on behalf of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U109	Good evening, colleagues! The next year's budget is in many ways the first. The first is that the country's defence is devoted to us with such a significant two per cent of GDP. The first is that funding for the health sector will historically exceed one billion euros. It is also the first to start a gradual renewal of the National Road Fund programme. It's like saying: 25 million, little. But according to the Ministry of Transport, it is about 300 kilometres every year; 300 kilometres - it's not a little. And this funding will gradually increase. It is also the first to significantly increase funding for demographics. It is the first budget to introduce a reduced VAT rate - a five-percent rate - for fruit and vegetables, thus supporting both the producers of these crops and the buyers' wallets and making these types of production more accessible. Colleagues! The budget for 2018 is the first after the major tax reform that took place in summer, and they complement each other. Their common positive features will each of us feel from 2018 - stronger companies and richer citizens of the country. It is also important that the government has kept its promise and will not introduce new tax measures - such tax measures are not foreseen in 2018. This creates an additional sense of stability not only for our citizens but also for businesses. I think that we in the Saeima should also stick to this principle by submitting proposals for second reading. The budget is also welcomed by our local authorities. This is illustrated by the historically shortest protocol of agreement and dispute, in which as the last outstanding issue has remained the issue of boarding schools, which we are likely to be determined to resolve between readings. Of course, stability is important for municipalities. And I think these 11.6 percent are also a guarantee of stability, so that municipalities ensure that their municipalities and city dwellers have access to services and that municipalities are developed in the future as well. We also heard these independent institutions from the responsible Commission, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. These organisations were convinced that the main priorities for all these institutions had been confirmed, and they were dissatisfied. I would also like to say that the fact that we are on the right track is also reflected in our current economic growth and the projected future growth - 3.4 percent in 2018, 3.2 percent in 2019 and 2020. This is still a far and unattainable figure for many countries. I therefore call on the Saeima to evaluate draft laws in a responsible manner and, of course, to support the draft budget in both readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U110	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U111	Good evening, dear colleagues! Strangely, of course, in the Saeima, we need to talk about 30 draft laws in one debate. And I only hope that we understand each time what each speaker is talking about. At the moment, I would like to draw the government's attention to the three draft laws that we have to evaluate in this package. The first of these draft laws concerns value added tax. I really have to say thank you to the government on this point. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “What government?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you very much!” ) I do not really know which minister put forward such a proposal, but it is pleasant, because at last the government has listened to the proposal of Latvia's Heart before the election, the call and the proposals put forward later in the parliamentary work to reduce the value added tax on healthy food. Thank you. We will try perhaps to supplement this list, but in any case for Latvian citizens, I think it will be a benefit. That is a positive moment in this area. The second question is about the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, simply in the Law on Uniform Remuneration. Dear colleagues, This amendment to the uniform remuneration law is, of course, very short at the moment and only concerns judges. And here I have to mention the words made by the Minister for Finance today that reforms are needed. That's what... It does so in the world, in Europe and in Latvia. And, you see, Latvia is also carrying out reforms. I only have the question: does our government really do this - it was thought today that something needed to be achieved tomorrow, and the fix, the fix... Is that so? In my opinion, the system of unitary remuneration, or reform, was developed seven to eight years ago by these same colleagues, who are currently in the coalition, and adopted and said: "See how beautiful the system is! The reform is in place.’ This means that, as part of this reform, there is confusion and, in my opinion, that confusion has, most probably, been committed by the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the distribution of funding. This system of flat-rate remuneration has finally left the left, because the Ministry of Finance itself admits that something should be changed here. Of course, the Minister for Justice, Mr. Rasnačs, may be pleased at this time and says: “You see, we have improved the salaries of judges a little.” But perhaps tomorrow's judgment of the Constitutional Court... I don't know what it will be, positive, negative... but no matter what it is, another reform, another reform is proposed. But, people, dear! The government has set up this reform in terms of unitary remuneration without negotiation, without serious reflection. It is a return to the Soviet era and to the situation of the 1990s, where the judges' salaries were set by a minister who is closer to the Prime Minister when the ministry has to get money and who has convinced and who has then been granted this funding. I very much hope that the Legal Commission of the Saeima will pay attention to this issue, because the situation that the remuneration of judges depends on the favourable attitude of the executive is a direct loss of independence of judges. In particular, the remuneration of judges next year will depend on how the government plans to allocate money in the budget. And that's a bad situation! I think the Minister of Justice remembers how this system was changed at the end of the 1990s. And in 2009 it was said that this system would be organised, the principle would be new. It also turns out that this new principle, the new reform is not working. I therefore call attention to the fact that the remuneration of judges must be independent of the annual political promise. And finally, the third question. I really did not want to speak, but today no speaker particularly touched on the amendments to the Education Act. A little bit about these very sadly famous boarding schools. I understand that the Minister for Education and Science wants to reform from end to end throughout the education system. I understand that the Head of Government does not particularly care about these reforms, because when we ask what the government thinks about education reforms, the Prime Minister re-directs the matter to the Minister of Education and Science so that he gives his assessment of his work. Thank you, Mr Kučinski, if you trust that Mr Shadurski will also appreciate his own work at times. But, of course, I understand that this is a good solution. I would just like, honourable ministers, to draw your attention to the fact that the field of education, like other fields, does not exist outside Latvia and beyond. We can, of course, hope that the field of education needs to maintain funding only for teachers' salaries, but, excuse me, schools are located in an environment that is Latvia. And schools also need... Schools also need to carry a different load. In particular, they must carry a certain social burden, a certain amount of regional development. And that is why we hope that the Prime Minister will also want to know the views of the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development on the issue of school reform. It will ask whether the municipalities are indeed prepared to cover part of the provision of boarding schools from their budgets in situations where the state has failed to provide normal education for children from social risk families. There is also a question here on the part of the Minister for Economic Affairs, on the part of the Minister for Transport. These are not just educational issues that are recorded in the Education Act; these are complex issues. And that is why I would very much like the reforms recommended by the Minister of Finance not to be hasty, to be discussed in different ministries, in different restaurants. And I would not very much like the result of the current reform to be that all of us together, yes, all of Latvia together, fall into the current mud mower. Then when opposition parties say in time: “There’s a moment of danger! Don’t do that!” You say, “No! No, no! It's okay!' And when the mud falls, you say: “Yes! We have come up with a solution!” I very much hope that the removal of boarding schools will be prevented and it will not be a compromise for one year, but these schools will be maintained until we have social-risk families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U112	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U113	Madam President, very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Dear Members, A great deal has been said here today on many budgetary issues. I want to touch on two points, and I think if the Prime Minister listens to and tries not to ask for advice from ministers in the sector, maybe there will be another vision, maybe there will be another result. So the first question is boarding schools. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education and Science is not able to solve this issue normally. What does this indicate? One very interesting fact. The Cabinet of Ministers asked the Ministry of Education and Science to develop the procedure for funding boarding schools by 31 May 2016. I think that now there is a much larger number, and we in the Commission still decided in the morning that it is not necessary to adopt this draft law as it is within the budget. Don't! It is necessary to give up until the officials of the Ministry of Education and Science have arranged. But they wouldn't do it because they had to do it by 2016. The second, which was not arranged by the Ministry - to have clear funding, but instead offered to stop financing boarding schools from January 1, 2018... And let them do whatever they want... that they take over the municipalities or to liquidate them, and so on. I think that the excuse or the opinion of why it should be done was to raise teachers' pay... about four million, if? Every 10 euros per month will be added. And the third. Today, when it comes to budgetary matters in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, the current President tried to state that the opposition's proposals were actually heard and many were even introduced. Some or many, or how. Unfortunately, no proposal from the opposition relating to education and culture has been put into practice either in the budgetary vision or in the interpretation of the law, and all are rejected - not to support, support or support. Where are we? Mrs Āboltiņa said that the minister who has undertaken to reform is a hero. Heroes are usually named after the work done, but not before the work, the respected Mrs. Āboltiņa. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Apple: “He has made twice as many as you!” ) And the last one. 16 proposals that were incorporated into the Open Education Law as proposals were very successfully pushed aside when it was discussed the training of teachers of general education institutions for social rehabilitation. We are going to eliminate boarding schools, but we do not think who is bringing up those boarding schools children who are accustomed to another regime there. Teachers with whom this program and these questions have not been solved... and certainly there will be no funds, because teachers need to be prepared and they need to have money in the budget. And 16 proposals were not even considered here. Minister Shadursky promised the heads of three boarding schools that in August this year we would come together and at least discuss this issue, literally by the director of the boarding school in the Commission a few weeks ago. She said, “Dear Minister, why did you promise in August and yet didn’t do anything?” And to this day nothing has been done. Then I have one question. I understand that we can talk from the opposition here. I have never, to be honest, felt so much indifference and cynicism from the coalition on the issue, which is the basis of the country. A well-ordered education system is the foundation of the country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “Children have to live in the family, not in the regime!” ) And therefore the priority, Prime Minister, is neither protection nor medicine. None! They are subordinate. Education is the first and only priority in all countries where there is normal development. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “Internal school!” ) Including... Yes, boarding schools also need to be, because not all children are healthy and not all children are able to study in the normal school. And go on our beautiful ways... I was just in Dagda. I advise you, go there. Take only the thermal coffee, because there's no coffee there even in the morning where to drink. In our developed country, 27 years after the restoration of independence. The second issue is the Finance Act for the Conservation of the Sacred Heritage. There's one question again: what then do we have a priority? I myself have been involved in cleaning the sacral heritage in Lesten. None of you present... I don't think that church was cleaned up there... What a condition it was! We did. We did, yeah. A whole group of people who sang patriotic songs there also cleaned up at the beginning of the Lestene church when it was a wastebin. I understand that all denominations need money. I really need it! I'm just afraid... For European money, we arranged a whole series of professional technical schools at European level, spending millions of money, and then removing them because it turned out that there are no students in that region. And here's the same thing. We'll arrange a sacral heritage, monuments... It is imperative to do so, the state must take care of our historical values, but here I see hidden advertising for the national party (give me that I offend you again!) . So the pastors will tell us all year long how generously representatives of our Ministry of Culture have given money to arrange the church premises and everything else. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “Let’s not give it at all?” ) No, let's do it! I told you to give it. But, excuse me, honourable Members, what is the priority then!Is that so? And here I can say that, as a Member, I am not satisfied that my industry minister says: "I am not allowed to restore funding to universities for the restoration of training plans at pre-crisis level." Fiscal discipline! No one can explain to me what that means - fiscal discipline. It's just been talking about tips... You know, our one-and-a-half million is for the Liepaja tennis court, you gave it generously to the budget this year. And 1.2 million quietly are handed over to Liepaja... For what it needs now cards if we don't have training plans restored!Is that so? Then let us finally establish our priorities once, let us not blind our eyes, and let us not be surprised! What's the main thing? The main thing is the teacher. We're always told: there must be quality. In small schools, teachers do not teach to present normal maths or natural teaching, lack of knowledge, and so on, and pupils have very weak results in exams. I have a question: what have we done in the legislation to sort out, so to say, this illiteracy? Let us finally start thinking what is a priority, the honourable Minister for Culture! Why did the wrongdoers of fiscal discipline not be named next day in this very hall? 49 million... Proposals by members of the coalition... with the Prime Minister at the forefront? 49 million! We had a savings. And that is fiscal discipline: it should perhaps have been paid in taxes so that my grandchildren do not have to pay more than 10 billion public debt. And the last one. I mentioned that I had a chance to stay in Dagda. And when I told the Dagda people that the average wage in the country was EUR 927 this year, one pretty promising came to me, an elderly local citizen and told me that I would read his message to the Members, and I would read it to you. ‘ For average salary in Latvia. Average salary in Latvia - that is, when one person from a hundred receives 12 thousand per month, while the other 99 receives 160 euros, then on average they all receive 278.40 euros. If Andris has 10 apples, but John has zero apples, then on average each one has five apples. If Members eat meat and people eat cabbage, on average we all eat cabbage dishes in Latvia. If the director's wife, Mara, sleeps with everyone in turn, but the unemployed Baiba, in Dagda, is not with anyone, then on average they are midwives.” (Applause) That's how we live!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U114	Name: Dzintars Rasnačs, Minister of Justice. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Name: Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U115	Dear colleagues, According to Member Jānis Adamsons and Member Artus Kaimiņš, I checked information about the probation service and about resocialisation. Yes, these social assistance centres - the Ratnieki, the Blue Cross and many others - are doing a happy job. I simply say: we will find these funds, and for the second reading everything will be fine. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U116	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U117	Good evening, honourable colleagues! Today, I see that education is the most pressing issue. It's a joy. At this point in time, I really want to say that there are major reforms in the field of education, and reforms are never easy. But these reforms are primarily aimed at improving the quality of education, from children between five and six years old to universities. And the other. I think that, in connection with these reforms, we will really be able to continue raising the salaries of educators. But believe me: teachers working in a small rural school and travelling to several schools are also not happy to receive one quarter or one fifth of the minimum salaries currently set for teachers. I do not want to agree with Mr Platoper on what is happening in the Commission, because it was not a proposal from the opposition... But I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education and Science for finding a compromise this week, and indeed the issue of additional funding for boarding schools after 1 January next year will be dealt with. I would like to remind you that we will return early or late to this term, and the recommendation from both the Ombudsman's Office and the Ministry of Welfare is to give up this in our education system, because we have very good general education schools with boardings where children feel much more embarrassing, more comfortable and better. About learning in a regular school. Mr Platoper really mentioned this regime. I think we all understand that the word “mode” is usually used in a negative sense. And they're lucky for those boarding schools that have a good director and good educators, and this regime is very positive and gentle. But I hope that we will continue to integrate those children who are orphans, so that they live in foster families, so that they study in regular schools, so that they can go to the gym in the evening and be with those children who are now growing up in families. We will be visiting both the Vaiņode and the Candava boarding school next week on Tuesday, and we will be discussing these issues further. But I would like to say that a solution has really been found, and in the course of the year we will return to the questions that remain unresolved. So that in the field of education and culture, I mean... Two new draft laws are also proposed in the field of culture. For the sacral heritage... It is a solution found for the first time in recent years to help not only our church buildings but also various other sacral heritage cases that are in public defence. And if we vote in favour of the budget, it will really be a very good and positive solution. So I invite you to support both amendments to the Law on Education at first reading as well as draft state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U118	Thank you. (Applause) Mrs Schiffe, will it be enough for you to have a debate with nine minutes? That's not enough. Inguna Silverba, Member of the European Parliament, took part in the debate. Will you have nine minutes, Mrs. Silver? ( Subtotal: “Stop it! ”) ) Neither. So, colleagues, there is a proposal to announce a break by 9 a.m. on October 26th. Do Members have objections (Interfaces: ‘No!’ ) Before 9 a.m. on October 26? There is no objection. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! For the notification of the results of the registration, the name to the member of the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U119	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Ringolds Balodis, Inesis Boķis... Yes, Astrid Harju... Yes, Ainārs Mežulis, Vladimir Nikonov, Veiko Spolitis... And, John Urbanovich... Yes, Yuri Vectyran... Not applicable.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-10-25-PT12-442-U120	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 26 October this year. ( Interruption)
