ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 21 September 2017. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and includes draft decision on the release of Edgars Mucans from the office of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Daugavpils court. Do Members object to these amendments to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision on the appointment of Linda Dizenberga as a judge of district (city) court to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members object to these amendments to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the appointment of Silvija Saleniece as a judge of district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members object to these amendments to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the President of Latvia on the termination of the status of a non-citizen for children be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Over the last few weeks, we have been hearing a discussion about this draft law, which aims to put an end to the granting of non-citizen status to children. The arguments and opinions have been heard in various ways, and that is precisely because these different opinions had been expressed, I felt it necessary to speak in order to express my thoughts on this bill, and the party members also supported my thoughts. The draft law should be moved forward and referred to the Commission for discussion, because only during the consultation can we assess everyone for and against it. When the experts expressed their views on the President of Latvia, I very much hoped that there would be any arguments in return why this draft law was unacceptable, but I did not hear the arguments. Yes! I heard political slogans: “We just don’t like the fact that these children are born in non-citizen families and that in these non-citizen families the parents are such and this is the way!” “We just don’t like it!” – this is the only argument. I understand that political arguments are a good thing, but they are a good thing for politics; however, we think about what kind of Latvian society will be in the future. The old slogans that Russians will take over Latvia or be citizens who will not love Latvia and betray Latvia - in fact, it is quite an old soup. We should think about the future of Latvia. Of course, it is even worse if there are no real arguments, but the only argument is the following: “We have a treaty.” Strange agreement between political parties, according to which no arguments are needed regarding the bill, but there is only fear of losing chairs! I hope that those who speak 'no' from this platform today will also give real arguments and not just say 'we don't like them'. And I hope very much that what sometimes sounds when there's no argument will not sound out of this troupe: then it begins to come to the person who made the bill, or those who support the bill. I mean, it's easier to lie something and say, “I don't like him.” By analogy, it would be the same if these people said: “You know, we will not give Latvian citizens the medicine of the new cancer that it has invented only because the inventor and the manufacturer are unlovable to us.” I think it would not be justified if 16 percent of Latvian voters' representatives were 16 percent! - say that they are the only Latvian patriots and they know what kind of Latvians should be, that everyone else is enemies who do not understand what Latvia they want, and that they are betrayers of Latvia. Mr. Līdaka, who mentioned yesterday in the Commission that this bill was one that would divide society even more, perhaps he did not notice that the SKDS survey (Dep. S. Aboltiņa: “Why attack certain people who have their own opinion?” ) 75 percent - 75 percent! - supports this draft law. And I think it shows that Latvian society is much more cohesive than politicians who represent Latvian society. The legal basis for the draft law. Article 7 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly states that the child has the right to obtain citizenship since birth. What are we doing? The State of Latvia has decided for 27 years that we want to reproduce the consequences of the occupation regime. The 1995 law states that a non-citizen is a national of the former USSR living in Latvia, who is not a citizen of any other country. So we say that we still have citizens of the former USSR. This status was planned to be a transitional or temporary status. At least so in 2005, the Saeima wrote to the Constitutional Court, and I hope it did not lie. Tell me, please, how long can transitional or temporary status exist? If we continue today and continue to grant the status of non-citizen to the newborns, then we want the Latvian state to have this status in 70 or 100 years? The second argument that has been made is that the granting of citizenship to non-citizens' children would be... I'm so sorry, could I have one minute?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U3	No, it's not possible after Order Roll. So your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U4	I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this draft law for the future of children, not for the fact that we do not like their parents!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U5	Thank you, Mr Curry, your speaking time is over. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I call on us not to support the transfer of President Vējonis's draft law to the commission, because this initiative is so glittered through political corruption that today, when Latvian society is fighting the oligarch and the hidden influence of Moscow, to support something that is most likely part of it, I think would be quite strange. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “You have not tried to treat?” ) The way in which this draft law is being passed increasingly suggests that this draft law is essentially not about public interest, as it is declared, but rather about doing something simply with a previously promised service in exchange for the election of the current President. Now is the essence. The President proposes to change the order in which children of non-citizens acquire citizenship of Latvia. What, then, is the current order? When a child is born in a non-citizen’s family, the family section asks the parent: “Do you want your child to be a citizen of Latvia?” If one parent says: “Yes,” the child becomes a citizen of Latvia at a moment. If you say, "No," then the law gives you the opportunity to think about it. Only the application must be written, and the child becomes a citizen of Latvia. If parents do not think about it, the child aged 15-18 can write such an application himself and become a citizen of Latvia. That is also stipulated by law. It seems that all possible options are covered. Just say yes and give you citizenship. This is already the case. What could be further improved here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It turns out that the President does not like that part of the parents who are non-citizens, yet consistently says: “No,” and 27 years after the restoration of Latvia’s independence, after studying in the Latvian education system, still does not want Latvian citizenship for themselves or for their children. How can we deal with this problem? Well, there could be different solutions here: to change the current integration policy, to change the segmented education system... Many things could be improved! But the president has come up with something different: it is necessary to prohibit these parents from saying “no” by law. And that's it! This will solve the problem. It's okay that excited parents call on the PMLP and encourage you to prevent it. This is what the management of the PMLP says. And these parents can be understood: life will be complicated, it will be harder to travel with the family to the relatives of the CIS. But the president is not interested in this! The inclusion of this bill in Latvian citizenship is essentially similar to how people were once brought into the colhose: from the beginning – on a voluntary basis, then – in forced manner and at the end, automatically registered everyone, without requiring anything, - wants or does not want. The supporters of the draft law say that in this way - in fact, imposing Latvian citizenship - the consequences of occupation will be eliminated and society united. By this logic it is enough only to register all non-citizens of Latvia as citizens, and the consequences of occupation will disappear, but society will be united. The Congress of Non-citizens thinks exactly this way: congratulates Vējonis on the first step and invites the children of non-citizens not to stop - to go further. And it is quite clear that it will go on. The aim of this bill is obviously only to put a foot in the doors, so that these doors can then be opened more widely. President Vējonis has so far been quite active with legislative and various other initiatives. He called on the Saeima to soften the rules for holders of temporary residence permits, called on the Saeima to weaken the requirements of Latvian language, invited Latvia to speak Russian more often. And now he calls for the automatic granting of citizenship to non-citizens' children. When will the day come, when will our President call for something to be done to stop the exclusion of Latvian youth from the labour market, to eliminate the openly discriminatory lines in Latvian kindergartens, to strengthen Latvian language positions in the media, to move towards a unified education system in the state language?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This bill shows that such a day is unlikely to come. It is not in the interests of the President and his supporters to change something in substance, but simply to legalise the existing situation. They are fully satisfied by the two-Community community. Is there a line in Latvian kindergartens? Well, let's go Russian! Can't get a job in Riga? Let him learn Russian, he'll get him! The President obviously does not see the problem here to come with some specific initiatives.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U7	Mr Schnore, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U8	This is, of course, a very pity. I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U9	So one Member has spoken about (Applause.) , one – “to”. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “On Disappointment of the status of non-citizen to Children”, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 39, against - 38, refraining - 14. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The name of the Member, Sergey Dolgopolov, to report on the motives for voting on behalf of the Groups.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U10	The High Saeima! The Social Democratic Party SASKAN Group has supported the draft law on the termination of the status of non-citizen for children for the following reasons. In 1995, the Supreme Council adopted a decision “On the renewal of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Latvia and the basic rules of naturalisation”. A large part of Latvia's population - permanent residents and their descendants - has been granted temporary status: with the adoption of the 1995 Law on the Status of its Former USSR Citizens, who do not have citizenship of Latvia or another country, they are non-citizens. As our courts have acknowledged, this status is temporary. Fractionas SASKĀŅA believes that when marking the centenary of the Republic of Latvia, this transitional period, which has already lasted for 26 years, should be put to a point. Every State-thinking Member would have a sacred duty to support the tabled draft law... the legislative initiative and also the broader idea of ending the status of non-citizen in the future. Citizenship is not a gift that can be shared by government or coalition at their own discretion and expense. Citizenship is the embodiment of the principle of equality, the achievement of our age and the core of European values. As regards the fundamental human rights, Latvia as a European country must not divide people into different groups, classes, social background or property status. As pointed out in the 2015 European Parliament study on the prevention and cessation of the status of a stateless person in the Member States of the European Union, Latvian non-citizens could be qualified as second-class citizens. The opinions expressed against the draft law are the tip of hypocrisy. The draft law only speaks of the fact that the right of non-citizens to transfer this status to their children is to be terminated. In accordance with the current Citizenship Law, these children already have the right to citizenship of Latvia. There are no legal obstacles to further progress and adoption of the draft law. Talking about coalition agreement, loyalty or unloyalty, about the emerging threats and threats are no more than dubious arguments about the election of coalition partners in the battle for places at the state wall. Public opinion polls show that the people support the inclusion of non-citizens' children in the population. All grades experts think...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U11	Mr Dolgopolova, your time for reading the motivation is over. Motivation is added to the Stenogram of the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U12	... I think...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U13	Thank you. We shall proceed to the proceedings of the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U14	I'm sorry. I have to finish this text.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U15	The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Railway Law" presented by the Saeima's Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Consultary Rules of Procedure Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Mr Walter Dambe on 21 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Walter Dambe, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 21 September this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On Release of Edgars Mucans from the position of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Daugavpils”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U16	Good morning, honourable colleagues! During the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 19 September, the draft decision “On the release of Edgars Mucans from the office of a judge of the Land Registers Department of Daugavpils” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Edgars Mucans to be released from the office of a judge of the Land Register of Daugavpils Court at his own wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Edgars Mucans from the position of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Daugavpils”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Linda Dīzenbergas as a judge of district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U18	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 19 September this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Linda Dizenberga as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Linda Dyenberg to appoint a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U19	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U20	Hello, brothers and sisters! I invite you not to support these candidates for the position of judge. Why? First of all, the judge is the one who decides the fate of people. Decide on whether a person will sit in prison or pay 100,000 or what will happen to his children. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “Tell me about the specific draft decision!” ) I am referring specifically to this specific draft decision (Dep. S. Āboltiņa: “On the particular judge!” ) and please do not interrupt me from the drug!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U21	If you do not talk about the specific draft decision, Mr Kalnozol, you will be excluded from the microphone! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. V.Kalnozols speaks without a microphone: "You're interfering with my work... “ Impressions. ” — MATTHEW 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U22	The first question is therefore as follows: the judge is the one who decides. Why am I saying that? Not because I'm a weird guy (Laughter). Subwords: “No! No, what are you doing?Oh, no, no, “), but because... because our honorable Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga also says: “Latvia still needs to work on regularising the judicial system, which would be the best gift in the national centenary.” And...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U23	Please talk about appointment of a particular candidate in the position of judge!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U24	Mrs. Inara, I realized you had some kind of opinion. You're... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosols speaks without a microphone.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U25	Please address the specific draft decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please do not discuss with the Chair of the sitting. Talk about the specific draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U26	Please do not discuss it with me. I express my opinion as to why this judge's candidacy should not be supported. Please allow me to express this view in the Chamber, why I am calling for this judge not to be supported, and do not stop me! I have been speaking to you for three minutes now and you do not allow me to express my opinion. Please allow me to express my opinion why I do not support this judge.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U27	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, speak, please, on the specific draft decision!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U28	Yeah. A great request is to listen to me. And don't stop! I already indicated to you that Vaira Vike-Freiberga said that the best gift is to arrange this judicial system. Next. The President of the Latvian Lawyers' Society Borovkovs believes that the public does not trust the judicial system because overall, the faith in justice has been lost. And the last one. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “What about Linda Dyenberg?” ) In Latvia, citizens have the least confidence in the court... least of all countries in the European Union.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U29	Mr. Nunozole, you are reinstated. Please talk about the specific draft decision or you will be switched off the microphone!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U30	Look at her CV! Organise this system so that the best lawyers would like to become judges, not those who somewhere... don't know where... can't find a job! I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U31	So you're being deprived of the name. Please turn off the microphone for Valdis Kalnozols! I closed the debate. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Is there anything to add to the specific draft decision? So there is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Linda Dizenberga as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Silvija Saleniece as a judge of district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U32	The draft decision “On the appointment of Sylvia Saleniece as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 19 September this year. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Silvia Saleniekia to appoint a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U33	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U34	I call not to support this draft decision, which provides for a judge to be assisted by a judge, the former Registrar of the Court. And I call for our justice system to be arranged so that the best lawyers go to work as judges. I will read to you what Mrs Vike-Freiberga has said (Dep. S. Aboltiņa: “Is she saying something about Silvia Salener?” ): “Latvia still needs to work on regularising the judicial system, which would be the best gift in the national centenary.” Former President of Latvia Vaira Vike-Freiberga! She's...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U35	Please refer to the specific draft decision - “On the appointment of Silvija Saleniece as a judge of district (city) court”!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U36	... carefully assess the qualification of judges, prosecutors every ten years. In the interview recognized the system of justice...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U37	Mr. Nunozole, I have to show you again: talk about the specific draft decision ‘On the appointment of Sylvia Saleniece as a judge of a district (city) court’. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Kalnozols continues to speak at the same time.) As you do not follow the parliamentary roll, you are deprived of your name. I closed the debate. Please turn off the microphone for Kalnozol! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosol continues to speak without a microphone.) The debate is closed. Mr. Nunozole, please take a seat in the hall. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosol continues to speak without a microphone.) “ Read it! We don’t hear!” ) Mr. Nunozole, please take a seat in the Saeima sitting room! The debate is closed and I call for the parliamentary sitting to continue. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to the draft decision in question? So there is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Silvija Saleniece as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U39	On the agenda - Examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U40	Dear colleagues, For the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law””, the Legal Commission has received two proposals. The proposal was submitted by the Legal Office. It is a technical proposal and the Commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U42	Proposal No 2 has also been submitted by the Legal Office, which is a technical proposal that has been unanimously supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U44	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U45	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima and draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” drawn up by the Commission for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U46	Good morning, honourable colleagues! So, to your attention, an amendment to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats. Second, final, reading. The commission responsible has made one essentially editorial proposal and is asking for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U48	Therefore, please also support the second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - Review of the Law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Vucāns... So on behalf of the Commission, Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U50	Good morning, honourable colleagues! The Commission has received three proposals for the law that has been passed on to this re-reading. 1. is a proposal by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission itself which revises the time limit within which a shareholder may request the redemption of shares. This means that the current proposed deadline of three years is replaced by a much shorter deadline of 18 months. The Commission had discussed this law in several meetings before it, and this law was examined once more with experts. The Commission considered it essential to maintain this provision by law. First of all, as a preventive provision which obliges unhappy shareholders to carry out their duties as shareholder at the time when they have acquired a majority of shares. In fact, we are talking about cases where the shareholder himself is hiding as a majority shareholder for a longer period of time. When it is proved that he is a true beneficiary, he is obliged to buy back the shares. And if this obligation is not fulfilled, that provision once again reinforces the conditions in a situation where a shareholder tries to avoid his statutory obligations. I am asking for support for this proposal from the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U51	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U52	Dear colleagues, This specific proposal in the law, which introduced a new norm, i.e. Section 74.1, actually only slightly changes the problems pointed out by the President of Latvia, which should be returned to the Saeima for re-reading. For, as we know, normal, modern economic development and also functioning are based on a normal, modern stock exchange with an appropriate legal framework. And one of the grounds of the legal framework is the principle of proportionality. In this case, they are proportionate to both the minority shareholder and the... This is very important and very important that we also do not violate the rights of a majority shareholder. In this case, both the President of Latvia, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Financial and Capital Market Commission and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima indicated that this principle is violated. At the Commission sitting, I urged us to make a Commission proposal that would, however, exclude this article from this law. Because, as we can see, all the experts clearly point to the fact that it will be a measure that does not contribute to the development of the fund market. And I think it's absolutely clear to us all: if you're a shareholder, you'll start to think about whether you're going to stock on the stock exchange and issue your company's shares or not, then, obviously, you'll say, "No! I will look for other ways to raise additional capital for my company!” I therefore call for these proposals not to be supported, including this law... Again, we will have to go back to this... and this law, in general, is not supported and once again discussed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Our group will vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U53	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U54	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I will make a brief statement of the arguments put forward during the discussion of this provision at the meeting of the Commission. So I repeat: we first and foremost talked about preventive norms, cases in which a shareholder deliberately avoids fulfilling his duties. No moment while a shareholder is working as a shareholder with the aim of making a profit, having discovered his true situation in good faith, such norms do not even need to be applied, because he wants to manage the company and operate in the company. But this is Latvia's specific situation in cases that have already been in practice before, for example, a shareholder is hiding for a long time and is in fact a majority shareholder, exercising the rights of this majority shareholder in a hidden manner. When it becomes known that in a public limited company there is in fact a dominant position for a group or one person, then – such a reality develops in life! - all other shareholders are aware that they are no longer in any way able to influence the decision-making of this public limited liability company. At that time, the price of these shares no longer means anything. It is not possible to sell these shares either at the price which was perhaps one hour ago or the day when the majority shareholder was in fact not known to be acting in a hidden manner in the public limited company. Thus, in such a situation, the rights of the majority are unfairly exercised. A minority no longer has the opportunity to sell their shares for... neither at market price nor at any balance sheet price. For who will want to acquire the shares with which you can no longer in any way influence the decision-making of the company in question?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I therefore call once again for support for the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because this proposal protects minority shareholders from unfair behaviour by the majority shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U56	The following two proposals are also proposed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which technically arranges for the entry into force of the law. Because the current rule that this norm will enter into force on 1 August logically and chronologically does not correspond, therefore proposal 2 states that this law will enter into force... this norm shall enter into force on the day following the announcement of the law. Please support 2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U57	Are Members willing to vote? Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 20, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U58	And also 3. - The proposal of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is about the entry into force of the law, i.e. it enters into force on the day following the announcement. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U59	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 19, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U60	Please support the law on "Amendments to the Financial Instruments Market Act" after re-reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U61	Please call me! We will vote for the adoption of the law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 20, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on the First Amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U62	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document number 3875. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law for its second, final, reading. We received two technical proposals from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. I call on my colleagues to support Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U64	The proposal also comes from the Parliamentary Secretary. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U66	I therefore call on colleagues to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U67	Please call me! We will vote for the final reading of the draft law on the First Amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda – draft law “On accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Chief of Transformation of the United States on the Strategic Relations of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty”, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U68	We work with document number 3876. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined and supported this draft law at second, final, reading. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U69	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “On accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Supreme Command Transformation of the United States on the functional relations of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U71	The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation for Damages caused by Public Administration Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U72	Hello, dear colleagues! This draft law is essentially designed to provide two tasks. The first task is related to the fact that the Saeima, at second reading, has already supported the draft law on compensation for damage caused by criminal proceedings and administrative offences. This is about administrative irregularities. If any irregularities and damage caused to a person by a public administration have been committed in this proceeding, they shall be compensated by a new law and not by the law on compensation for damage caused by the public administration. In other words, these rules must be removed from the law because it will be governed by a new law. The second task is related to the fact that already this year the state budget programme for the Ministry of Finance... there is no longer such a special programme as compensation for damage caused to natural and legal persons. That is, the order that has been in place so far: when an institution had caused damage to a person and had to make good damage to that person, the institution turned to the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance paid the corresponding amount out of this budget programme. The decision on this is also government. Now, this compensation will come from unforeseen funds, and the relevant public authority, which will have caused the damage, will apply to the Ministry of Finance with its own reasoning, and the Minister of Finance will decide to make good this damage. In particular, its procedure looks a little easier. At the same time, in cases where a loss has to be compensated to a person, the public administration will be more concerned as to whether the official has actually acted wisely or not. I therefore call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation for Damages caused by Public Administration Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U74	Request for proposals by 5 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U75	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U76	Colleagues! The draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law is under consideration at first reading. The draft law was designed to simplify investigations in criminal proceedings, to ensure investigation of criminal offences proportionate to the seriousness of the violation of the law, as well as to review the conditions of suspension and termination of criminal proceedings. The draft law was drawn up on the basis of the findings of a study carried out by the State Police in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor General's Office and the aim of which was to seek to simplify criminal proceedings. Although the explanatory memorandum to the bill states that, in several countries, investigation materials can be up to eight pages, the draft will of course not be able to provide such small criminal material, but a number of amendments are proposed which can simplify criminal proceedings. The draft law aims at reducing the number of procedural documents. One document is expected to replace a number of existing documents. A more effective identification of the investigative activity is envisaged. The aim is to combine two simple criminal proceedings, which are currently provided for in the Criminal Procedure Law. In particular, we now have a shortened process and criminal proceedings can be carried out as a matter of urgency. There will now be one criminal case, which provides that in cases where a less serious crime, a criminal offence or, let us say, a crime that is not serious, the pre-trial procedure will be able to be completed within a month. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U77	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U78	October 5th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U79	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 October of this year. On the agenda: Draft Law on Amendments to the Maritime Code, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U80	Good morning, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We work with amendments to the Maritime Code, draft law No.937/Lp12. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft laws for the first reading. Let me briefly present what this bill contains. First of all, the Maritime Code lays down the obligations of the state joint stock company “Latvian Maritime Administration” with regard to hazardous shipwrecks that endanger maritime safety. The Maritime Code also requires the master of the ship to monitor that seafarers are provided with adequate quality and quantity of food and drinking water on board. At the moment, no such obligation has been imposed. These amendments clarify this. Requirements are also laid down for keeping a record of seafarers' working time and rest periods. In practice it has been found difficult to apply these requirements to seafarers working in Latvian waters on board ships only in coastal waters, inland waters or port waters. These seafarers are primarily governed by the Labour Act. The common requirements are therefore softened. The amendments also impose an obligation on the shipowner to include in the civil liability insurance contract insurance cover for the repatriation of abandoned seafarers. And there are other editorial clarifications. The Commission examined the draft law and prepared it for first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U81	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Maritime Code. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U82	Thank you. Let us wait until 5 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U83	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U84	We work with the draft law Amending the Road Traffic Law (No 938/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft law and prepared it for first reading. Annotated by the draft law: “The aim of the project is to arrange the funding of delegated tasks of the public administration in the field of the implementation of photo radars, as well as to ensure a more efficient use of state budget funds by delegating a new task of public administration to a private person who can do it more effectively.” The project provides for additions to Article 43.7 of the Road Traffic Act, ‘Separation of infringements by technical means without stopping the vehicle’. In particular, it provides that the State Police may conclude a delegation agreement with the Road Safety Directorate for the execution of certain actions specified in the Latvian Administrative Violations Code related to the execution of the imposed fines (for example, the transmission of documents related to the execution of the protocol-decision to a person subject to an administrative penalty). These amendments will therefore put this system in order and will work more effectively. In the Commission, we examined this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U85	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Road Traffic Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U86	Thank you. Let us wait until 26 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U87	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 26 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U88	Good morning, colleagues! We started today's sitting, talking about national security, as some colleagues have emphasised. I would like to continue on this subject. In particular, amendments to the Law on Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security would allow the defence industry to carry out “... procurement of goods of military importance in Latvia which are essential for national security interests and which are critical to the performance of the tasks set out in external regulatory enactments, thus reducing the security risks of their supplies.” The draft law provides that this exception will be limited to goods of military importance according to the provisions of the Law on Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security and its application will require the permission of the Cabinet of Ministers. This draft law, colleagues, also provides for a number of clarifications in line with the innovations or previous amendments contained in the Public Procurement Act. We have examined this draft law in the Commission and I call for it to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on defence and security procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U90	Colleagues! If you have any good proposal to improve the law on defence and security procurement, we invite you to submit your proposals by 5 October this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U91	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Lots”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U92	Dear President, Honourable Members! Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming provide for the exclusion of the second paragraph of Article 36. The second paragraph of Article 36 stated that, in excess of winnings of a value of EUR 1000 or more, the customer identification data had to be recorded. As a result of the entry into force of the directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering, which amounts to EUR 2 000 in this directive, we need to align and, in future, will be amended accordingly in the Law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The transitional provisions provide that, in respect of transactions carried out before the date of entry into force of this Law, the previous amount of EUR 1000 shall remain in force. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U93	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U94	Please submit your proposals by 3 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U95	Thank you. Proposals are due by 3 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U96	Hello, Members of the Saeima! This concerns measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The purpose of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” is to prevent the use of the financial system for funding bandits and money laundering. There is a uniform supervision in the area of payment services and issuance of electronic money in existing regulatory acts, but there is no uniform supervision in the area of money laundering and prevention of terrorism financing. Financial institutions are supervised by the Financial and Capital Market Commission, while supervision of the activities of the State Joint Stock Company Latvijas Pasts is carried out by the Ministry of Transport. In 2011, the Latvian cases in the field of prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing were evaluated by an international expert group and recommended that the responsible authorities of Latvia consider the supervision of money and value transfer services provided by the state joint stock company Latvijas Pasts to the institutions supervised by the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. This draft law, as well as draft law No 952/Lp12, which is now in circulation and is being reviewed by the Commission for the Prevention of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption, will be followed up and implemented. In November this year, the group of experts mentioned above will re-visit Latvia to assess the extent to which the shortcomings previously identified by the inspection have been addressed. It is therefore important for Latvia to implement these instructions in good time. The draft law was supported by the Commission at first reading and, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U97	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U98	The Commission shall request the submission of proposals for the second reading by 27 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U99	Thank you. Proposals are due by 27 September this year. On the agenda: draft law on the Convention on the International Protection of Adult Persons, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U100	Good afternoon! We work with document number 3559. The purpose of the Convention is the protection of persons whose health or other restrictive factors prevent them from fully protecting their interests. The Convention underlines international cooperation as it also includes the protection of individuals in other countries in cases where they are no longer able to protect their interests in cases of deterioration or lack of capacity. The Convention shall apply to any person who has reached the age of 18. The Convention has been signed by 13 Member States of the European Union as well as by Switzerland and Monaco and has already been ratified by seven Member States of the European Union. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before the first reading and supported it. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U101	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Convention on the International Protection of Adult Persons. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U102	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U103	Thank you. Proposals are due by 2 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Protocol of 2014 supplementing the Forced Labour Convention of 1930 of the International Labour Organisation”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U104	We work with document No 3481. This protocol recognises that the prohibition of forced labour is a fundamental right and that forced labour violates human rights, undermines human dignity and contributes to poverty and prevents decent work for all. The Protocol provides for a number of preventive and protective measures (e.g. informing the public about forced labour, ensuring that labour law is extended to all employees and supporting the necessary checks). The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law and supported it for the first reading. I call on the Saeima to support this today.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On the Protocol of 2014 supplementing the Forced Labour Convention of 1930 of the International Labour Organisation” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U106	October 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U107	Thank you. Proposals are due by 2 October of this year. On the agenda - first reading of the draft law on Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U108	We work with document number 3579. The final aim of the Protocol is the reform of the European Court of Human Rights. It will provide additional guarantees to Latvian citizens that in the future their complaints will be dealt with in a faster and more effective manner in court (now they will be four months instead of the previous six months). The threshold of the maximum age of judges is also changed. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before the first reading and supported it. On behalf of the Commission, I am calling for this to be supported today.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Protocol No 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U110	October 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U111	Thank you. Proposals are due by 2 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U112	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We are working on document 3866 and these are amendments to the Military Service Law at second reading, which have been examined by the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission at its meeting on 12 September. The first three proposals made by my colleague Juris Vectyran have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U113	So proposals 1, 2 and 3 have been withdrawn, but there is room for debate on these proposals. The debate started on the first proposal. Name to Member Juris Vectyran.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U114	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, As early as April, we started to look at many issues that will help to put the military legislation in order. In April, we adopted amendments to the legislation on retirement pensions for military personnel. It was about active service, and it is clear and clear what active service is. In this law too, which is mainly about active service - professional service, active service, which is that... And not to make the service difficult for the soldiers... forewords of application, I propose amendments. However, there was obviously too little time in the Commission, and there was little discussion about this issue and we did not get a common view. My point of view was not supported, the point of view of the Ministry of Defence was supported. With defence ministers and ministerial staff, we came to the conclusion that these proposals must be moved further, but in a much wider range, so that they cover all the laws containing this terminology. That is why I withdrew my proposals, and that is what my colleague, Wyko Spolitis, has already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U115	Thank you. So proposals 1, 2 and 3 have been withdrawn, as the proposer and the commission rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U116	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U118	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U120	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U122	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U124	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U126	9. - The motion from Member Juris Vectyran. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U128	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U130	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U132	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U134	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U136	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U137	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Vectyran.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U138	Dear colleagues, The wording is very important in this proposal. And that is: “The current rank of service may be awarded to a soldier before the prescribed service time for the battle and other merit... “
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U139	Mr. Vectyran, we have 14 on the agenda. - The proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U140	Thank you. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U141	So does one of the Members want to debate the 14th proposal? I don't want to. The debate is closed. So there is a proposal to support this, 14, proposal to support. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U142	Yes! 15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ... I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U143	Proposal No 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U144	Yeah. 15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U146	16. - a proposal from my colleague Juris Vectyran. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U147	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Vectyran.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U148	Colleagues! You have already heard my introduction to Amendment 16. The nature of the matter is very simple. I believe that there is no need to apply this order, or order, to a soldier, who is recommended to be rewarded by an accelerated procedure with a degree of military merit and other outstanding merits, because he already deserves it. What does that mean? If in such a case, he says: “No! Let's see if he meets the order in which he gets his rank!' - then, I think that's not right. The step should be given on the basis of what he has done - on his outstanding performance. And there can't be a certain sequence. Because, in his current position, he has fulfilled this order, he has already been recruited in the order of service - as is due to a soldier in the composition of instructors as well as in the composition of officers. And if there are battle merits, there can be no bureaucratic requirements for them. Article 69 also makes it clear: about battle and other outstanding merits. And that's it! There are no questions about the application of Article 33. For example, English Knowledge... He's already tested it, he doesn't need it. Thank you. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U149	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U150	No, no! Unfortunately, the Commission did not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U151	It is therefore necessary to vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - MEP Vectyran's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 5, for - 40, for - 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U152	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U154	18. - a proposal from my colleague Juris Vectyran. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U155	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U156	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U158	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U160	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U162	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U164	And finally 23. - My colleague Edwin Schnore's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U165	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U166	Consequently, 34. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U167	24. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U168	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U170	And finally 25. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U172	We have examined this draft law at second reading, and please support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U173	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U174	For the third reading, please give three weeks - 12 October this year...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U175	October 12th?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U176	October 12th Yes!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U177	Thank you. Proposals are due by 12 October this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on Competition, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U178	Colleagues, good afternoon! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law”. Nine proposals have been received in total. 1. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U180	2. - the proposal by Arvil Asheraden, a Member of the Prime Minister's Minister for Economic Affairs, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U182	3. - The proposal by Prime Minister Asheraden. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U184	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U185	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U186	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U188	6. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U190	7. - the proposal by Arvil Asheraden, a Member of the Prime Minister's Minister for Economic Affairs, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U192	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U194	9. - the proposal for the entry into force of the law by Arvil Asheraden, the Minister for Economics of the Prime Minister. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U195	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U196	We have therefore examined all nine proposals, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for the vote on the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U197	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Competition". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U198	Colleagues, the Commission has decided that the deadline for submitting proposals will be quite short - five days, so until 26 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U199	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 26 September of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Labour Law, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U200	The draft law is implemented by implementing the process of decentralization of administrative penalties in Latvia. Amendments to the Labour Law provide for supplementing the law with a chapter on administrative liability in the field of labour legal relations and competence in the application of penalties, which provides for penalties for non-closure of labour contracts in writing, non-prohibition of the minimum monthly salary set by the State, withdrawal from negotiations on the conclusion of collective labour agreement, violation of the prohibition of differential treatment in the field of labour legal relations and other administrative offences. The draft law provides for competence in the application of the sentence, and the administrative procedure for these violations will be carried out by the State Labour Inspectorate. Proposals for this draft law have been submitted and discussions are also planned to continue with the Latvian Employers' Confederation in order to incorporate the definition of illegal employment into regulatory acts. I propose that the draft be adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U201	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to Labour Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U202	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U203	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 3 November of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on Social Services and Social Assistance Act, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U204	This draft law also provides for the imposition of administrative penalties in the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance. The draft law is supplemented by a chapter on administrative liability in the field of social services and competence in the application of penalties, both for failure to ensure the quality of services and for their unregistered provision. And as responsible for the administrative infringement process, the Ministry of Welfare is determined. The draft law has been agreed with the Ministry of Justice and only provides for this amendment. Please accept first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U205	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U206	For this draft law, on behalf of the Commission, I also ask for a deadline of 3 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U207	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 3 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U208	This draft law is also related to the decentralisation of administrative penalties and the establishment of these norms in special laws, and it provides for the determination of administrative responsibility for violations of epidemiological safety standards, as well as establishes competence in the application of penalties. These penalties are expected to be imposed by the Health Inspectorate. Please accept this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U209	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U210	I also ask for this draft law on the deadline for the second reading on behalf of the Commission to be set at 3 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U211	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 3 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U212	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law Amending the Railway Law (No 1025/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has drafted a draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” to regulate issues related to the financing of public transport passenger transport by rail. The draft law provides that a passenger carrier carrying out passenger transport services by rail on the basis of public service contracts may agree with the railway infrastructure manager not to apply the legal interest for late payment. A similar draft law had already been prepared and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, but it was rejected at the Saeima on 21 July this year. This draft law is prepared by the Commission on the basis of a pre-arranged draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers and provides for... not necessarily, so to say, the write-off of this late payment, but the possibility of agreeing and not paying this late payment. Yes, this draft law was prepared and supported by the Commission for its first reading. I ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U213	Thank you to the rapporteur. Dear colleagues, Members Adamovich, Āboltiņa, Brigmanis, Zarins and Cilinski are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. ( Interface: “One of the best proposals today! ” ) So, if necessary, the Saeima sitting will continue without interruption. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U214	Hello, colleagues! Everything is not so clear with this bill. As you remember, some time ago it was here in the Saeima. It was prepared by the Ministry of Transport and we all friendlyly rejected it because it was a real absurdity. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has tried to remedy this situation. The question is, have we achieved this? Where are the problems? I'll tell you. So if we look at the state budget, then this is a logical solution, because where is the problem? The problem is that there may be a situation where a ‘passenger train’ carrying out a given service paid for by the State may not receive any money, which means that it will not be able to pay with the ‘Latvian Railway’ with the infrastructure holder for the use of the services. Therefore, if it cannot be carried out, it must pay a fine. And it ends in such a way that the country beats its own pocket. And in order to change this situation, we somehow try to deal with it through legislation. So we try to correct the state's failure by law. As I said, from a budgetary point of view, this is as if a logical solution. But problems may arise if we look from a market perspective, because this is essentially a market distortion, a situation where we propose by law to one rail infrastructure user different conditions than those of other infrastructure users. And there may be a risk that these other infrastructure users will come and say: “Wait! You are now distorting competition! You propose to set different conditions by law!” And then we can find ourselves in a situation where such conditions will have to be offered to everyone. There are several risks that may emerge. One thing I have already mentioned is that there can really be a lavish effect: we can either come to the question of the draft law, the norms of this law and the request to change it, or we will have to apply it to everyone. And what else is the risk here? The risk is that, if such a rule is adopted, we will in principle say that the State can fail to fulfil its obligations, let us accept against the ‘Passenger Train’, because the ‘Passenger Train’ will still be able to fail. But, colleagues, what does that mean? This will mean that infrastructure, rail, cannot cover its costs, and the whole transit sector may suffer as a result. We can pose serious problems to a whole transit sector, an important part of the economy. That is why, colleagues, it would be worth thinking about everything, and if we support it at first reading, we should attract not only the Commissioner for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy with its competence, but also the industry - those who see the sector more widely and more systematically and who know the problem deeper than we do. Otherwise, using the Latvian folk saying, we can enter the ears. So I call, colleagues, to be responsible and to prevent this situation from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U215	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U216	Dear colleagues, Mr Zarins has already talked to a large extent about the discussion that we had in the Commission. It has to be said that, unlike the previous draft law, this draft law does not provide for automatic deletion of these percentages, but for the possibility to agree. The situation is that both the Passenger Train and the Latvian Railways, which are the owner of the infrastructure, are capital companies of the Ministry of Transport. In principle, the Ministry of Transport, as the holder of shares, may agree in the same way, without this law. Since this draft law is to a large extent declaratory in order to transfer responsibility from the Ministry of Transport to the legislator to some extent and thus provide for an opportunity already provided for by the Commercial Law. As far as financial considerations are concerned, this is indeed a certain problem, as the infrastructure charge is calculated in the same way for all. The infrastructure charge shall cover the costs related to maintenance of the track, level crossings, other cases to be provided by all persons travelling by rail, including passenger transport, including freight. And if one player does not pay this fee, it means that others may have to pay more. Or if “Latvian Railway” does not get this money from “Passenger Train” in time, or if, let's say, it's with half a year's delay, there may be a situation that “Latvian Railway” needs to borrow this money, and so again there is interest, and so on. And “Latvian Railways” creates losses that are evenly distributed to all. The question is therefore, of course, a debate. In this case, the law does not provide for the automatic release of this infrastructure charge in any way; however, the law provides for such a possibility. I think that we can clarify and supplement this bill for further reading, and we should do everything to keep the impression on the rest of the private hauliers, and this burden should not be passed on to them because the State does not pay the full share of the infrastructure charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U217	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U218	No, no. The Commission prepared this draft law. And I also call on the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U219	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U220	Let us wait until 26 October this year. So it takes a long time to discuss these issues in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U221	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 October this year. The agenda of the sitting has been examined, but I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today. Member of the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis, on the issue of silver, Kūtra, Maija, Šimfas and Platoper, about the amount of funding granted by the state for one of the meals provided for food purchases. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Members' questions have been received. Members of Silver, Maya, Kūtris, Platopers and Balodis submitted a question “On the amount of funding granted by the State for one-teaching meal, which is directed towards the purchase of food”, which is given to the Prime Minister for reply. The Members Andrejs Clementyev, Šimfas, Šics, Urbanovičs and Morozov presented the question “On improving demographics and promoting birth rates”, which we hand over to the Minister for Welfare for their response. Please call me! Please have Members' presence regime! As long as the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the Member of the Commission shall be given to Richard Kola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U222	Dear and honourable Members, I invite you to meet in the Red House of the Saeima in five minutes' time to set up a group of Members under the age of 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U223	Name of notice to Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U224	Members of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! We will continue to consider amendments to the law at 11.30 committee premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U225	Name for the statement to the Member Ritvars Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U226	Dear Members of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, I invite you to a brief discussion in the Yellow House immediately after the Saeima sitting!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U227	Name of the Secretary of the Saeima for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U228	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Gaidis Berzins, Inesis Boķis, Valters Dambe, Artuss Kaimiņš, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis and Vladimirs Nikonovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-09-21-PT12-437-U229	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
