ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U1	Dear Members of the Saeima! I invite you to take office in Saeima's meeting room so that we can begin the second extraordinary session of the Saeima on 21 July 2017. On the agenda – draft decision “On establishment of a parliamentary investigation commission on the signs of state theft and quality of pre-trial investigation in criminal proceedings No. 16870000911). It was submitted by 35 members of the Saeima, including Andrejs Judin, Alexey Lukaskov, Edward Smilten, Hosam Abu Meri, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Veiko Spolitis, Ints Dalder, Romualds Gamuks, Atis Lejiņš, Ilze Viņķele, Nally Kleinberga and others. On behalf of the applicants, Member Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U2	Dear colleagues, You have in your hands a document signed by 35 Members of the Saeima, and according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, this means that a commission is being set up. In essence, this is the case with the approval of the Saeima Members: we cannot vote 'no'. This is the case. We can debate this for a long time, of course. But I want to draw your attention, first of all, that the commission has been set up because the signatures have been collected. Unfortunately, some may have other opinions, but they will not be able to change them. On the substance of the question, we call for the creation of a committee of parliamentary investigations on the features of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No 16870000911. It is no secret that this proposal is a response to published information relating to specific criminal proceedings that led to a very important reaction, and it is important for us to respond to that information. I mean, it's about... Those who read, those who listened, realize that this is about suspicion, about signs of attempts to steal the country. This is about the quality of criminal proceedings, the ability to investigate the case. These issues are very important. Given that it is reasonable to believe that all of this is related to political life, in our view, it is unacceptable for the Saeima to be left behind and to expect the prosecutor's office and KNAB to be over. We also saw on television broadcasts where KNAB employees told that the prosecutor's office was at fault, but the prosecutor's office told that it was doing everything correctly and that KNAB was at fault. I think it is very important for Members to be able to judge and draw conclusions from what has happened. This time, the list of tasks is attached to this document, because, like a number of others, I also had at first such, or, a certain sceptic. We remember how the parliamentary committees worked and how effective it was. And for some, it seems that there can be no other way. But my opinion was influenced by the case of one man, a figurant, who was asked what he thought. And his answer was, “I don’t read this magazine, it doesn’t interest me, and so I don’t want to speak at all.” If we set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, there will be a different situation: we can call on a person, we can ask for information. But, in my opinion, it is very important to make sure that there is no show with which we will entertain the public. Because these are legal issues, it is important to assess whether our criminal proceedings, the regulation provided for in the law, allow for an effective investigation of cases, justify the innocent and condemn the perpetrators. We have problems with that. Our system is effectively coped with theft, perhaps with personal injury, but when it comes to theft of the state, the prosecutor's office tells us that there is no evidence or there is insufficient evidence. We must therefore talk about the quality of the proof. When it comes to the state theft situation and its features, which show that decisions are taken in the country for selfish purposes, that the state is privatised or that people are trying to privatise it, they are trying to make sure that Members vote not in the interests of the state, but in the interests of individual persons, that this is not a normal situation. That is why we will have to talk about this. Colleagues! It is clear to all of us what this question is. And I very much hope that the representatives of all the political groups will be able to cooperate and work effectively. The document in your hands states that it is planned to set up a commission for six months. But in discussions with colleagues, I also agreed that in a few months' time, we will see whether the work is effective or whether we cannot deliver a result. It is therefore proposed that this time limit be reduced to four months, and then we will be able to prepare this decision for the next sitting. I very much hope that, when we set up this committee and start work, we will be able to change the situation and that the work of this committee will be more successful than in previous cases, and that there will be a result. So, colleagues, please support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the establishment of a parliamentary committee on the signs of state theft and quality of pre-trial investigation in criminal proceedings No. 16870000911”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The decision is taken and the parliamentary committee is therefore set up. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to the Member Ingmars Līdak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U4	Dear Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Immediately, immediately, the committee meeting. I hope that it will be very short, because everything is already clear.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U5	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary's registration result... Oh, the name of the announcement to the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U6	Thank you. I ask all the leaders of the political groups to meet in the Red House in two minutes' time - at 5.10 p.m. - to agree on the delegation and on the deadlines within which we will delegate Members to the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Yeah, right away, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U7	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U8	Colleagues! Not registered: Ringolds Balodis, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Jānis Kžads, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Sergejs Mirskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Imants Prodnieks, Andris Siliņš, Julija Stepanenko and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-432-U9	Thank you. As a result, I closed the session of the second extraordinary session of the Saeima on 21 July 2017.
