ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U1	Hello, honourable Members! Ministers of Government! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 15 March 2017. On the agenda - examination of the report. Annual report by Prime Minister Māra Kučinska to the Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues Ministers! In accordance with several laws and regulations, I have signed and presented to the Saeima a report on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. I read this document carefully, and I was a little bit taken over by the feeling of "been" or déja vu. Many of the cases in the text of the report were already reported to the Saeima Members and the public in the government report, which was presented at the end of last year, and I spoke about them at the Saeima meeting on 1 December 2016. This does not mean that we can go home to read what we read. It will not happen, for philosophers claim that twice can’t get into one river. Others say that it can’t even be once, because water and time flow without stopping. The priorities for the work of the government mentioned in the report have not changed. These include economic development, development of the business environment to excellence, reform of the education and health system, strengthening of national defence capabilities, demographic policies and faster implementation of family support measures. Of course, support for culture and strengthening national identity must not be left aside either. As far as the economy is concerned, things that have to be seen as success must be mentioned without unnecessary shyness. Latvia has reached very high levels in various internationally recognised competitiveness measures. The Government Declaration and the Latvian National Development Plan 2014-2020 set the goal of entering the first 20 countries group (the so-called TOP 20) in the Doing Business Index by 2018. This goal has already been achieved, and Latvia has ranked in the Doing Business Index 14th place, which so far is our highest achievement. Latvia has also shown excellent performance in the measurement of the European innovation table in 2016 and for the first time has come to a group of so-called mid-innovators, ahead of many other Member States of the European Union. If one of the most painful problems of the Latvian economy in 2016 was a sharp drop in the flow of investment, then already by the beginning of this year the contracts are guaranteeing to attract EUR 1.3 billion of investment from European funds. I hope that we will have the resources, the capacity and the courage to make full use of this money for the development of the Latvian economy. Honourable Members! One of the most frequently called government lines of action is the fight against the shadow economy and the elimination of various tax evasion schemes. I firmly remain in my view that this is a matter of national security. There can be no compromises, no derogations, no quiet settlements. No and no again! I am sure that the State Revenue Service will continue with reforms aimed at creating a modern, effective institution, in which any Latvian businessman and Latvian citizen would see a favorable partner who, being kind, strongly stops to the letter and spirit of the law. The first year of this government's activity can also be called the year of a major project. It is certainly worth mentioning the "16+1" summit of the countries of China and Eastern Europe that took place in Riga last year. Its results cannot yet be measured, because in projects of this scale, decision-making is slower than we would like. The Rail Baltica project is progressing successfully, and I think that we will succeed in fulfilling all the commitments we have made under this project. Again, when it comes to economic development, it is important to mention the planned reform of the tax system. It will soon be on the Saeima's agenda. I know that you have already had an opportunity to get acquainted with the basic principles of this reform. I call on Members of the Saeima to carefully evaluate the content of the tax reform, we will be happy to hear critical remarks and welcome any constructive proposal. It should be stressed that this reform plan is supported by all social partners, employers' organisations, trade unions, Latvijas Banka and experts from various sectors. It seems that this is the first case in the history of the restored Latvia, when such an important issue of state policy can count on so much support in various interest groups. I will not exaggerate if I say that this is the moment most suitable for reforming the tax system. European funds will contribute significantly to Latvia's economic development in the coming years. What will happen after that, we do not know at the moment. This historic opportunity must therefore be exploited. Latvia must not be late! The economic chapter of the annual report also contains a whole series of issues concerning the legal environment, territorial development and a number of other matters of no less importance. In many areas, work has started but progress reports are too early. And by the end of the day, the economy. Last year the amount of taxes actually collected in relation to the planned was 100.8 percent, thus slightly higher than planned, but in January 2017 it was 104 percent. We're on the right track! Honourable Members! The priority of government action, which will not disappear from its agenda for at least the next five years, is the reform of the education system. Some of the first steps have already been taken, but the greatest work is still ahead. I think quite often of Minister Kārlis Šadurskis whether I would like to be in his place. It would be hard. I wish him enough determination and ability to go ahead, despite everything. The direction is clear: it is the optimisation of the school network, or the reduction of the number of schools in the right words. Introducing common and high educational standards in the already optimised school network. The student who comes from Ape, Zilupe, Dundaga or Nica must have equal opportunities, opening the doors of any Latvian university. Similarly, the government has not forgotten the promise to create a social protection programme for teachers who will lose their jobs as a result of the optimisation of the school network but will not have reached retirement age. There is also a story about reforming the higher education system and much more. It's all about time. As I said, only the first steps have been taken. If we follow opinion polls, we can see well that access to healthcare is one of the most pressing problems. This concerns both access to the specialist concerned and how much it costs the patient. The industry is waiting and demanding money. The industry is right: money needs more. But the government demands reforms and clarity for the sector as to where the money will remain. This year, healthcare funding for the first time has exceeded what is known as "threshold years", but as a percentage it still lags behind the average of the Member States of the European Union. In order to move forward, the Ministry of Health, together with industry experts, has to explain the planned reforms for both the recipients of health services and the providers of these services. These explanations must be specific and clearly understandable. There's no other way, there can't be. The views expressed in the culinarys of some influential lobby groups cannot be an argument for the distribution of the health budget. Honourable Members! One of the government's priorities, which we have often been reminded of in recent times by our allies, is the security of the state or, more specifically, our defence budget. The good news is that we are fulfilling our commitments, and it is a joint decision by all the coalition partners. The government can and can be united. There is no doubt that already in the 2018 budget two percent of our gross domestic product will be allocated to national defence. In the field of security, dialogue between Latvia and Canada was also significantly activated in 2016. This activity was greatly enhanced by the decision of the NATO Warsaw Summit on Canada's leading role in ensuring the multinational battalion in Latvia. I am convinced that it will not only benefit our country's security - our economy will also benefit inestimably. The Ministry of Defence has concluded an agreement on NBS cooperation with Latvian food producers in order to promote continuous supply with local agricultural and food production, while contributing to the development of the national economy. Similarly, in order to ensure conditions compatible with international training, the preparation and construction of the NBS infrastructure is carried out. This year the additional funding allocated to the defence field will be allocated to preparatory work to ensure the deployment of allies in the territory of Latvia. In turn, in order to improve the efficiency of border control, several new policy initiatives of the Ministry of the Interior have been supported, which provide for further construction of the eastern border of Latvia, increase of the number of border guards at the “green” border, as well as provision of State Border Guard officers with special equipment and technical means of border surveillance. For demographics. The report mentions a cross-sectoral cooperation platform - the Centre for Demographic Affairs. In my opinion, this is a very effective organisation. You know, it's like a decoy that drowns at the ear in the summer night and finally puts its snout in the skin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “It won’t happen to children!” ) I must say thank you to the infinite energy of Imants Debtor: he knows how to put demographic issues on the government agenda and forces him to find funding for various programmes. I know that is less than it should, but there is support for families to buy housing, there are assistance programmes for large families. We do more than before and let us do more. Honourable Members! The message of this national conservative government is to be expressed in a few words: reforms and national interests. Reforms in many sectors - tax policy, education, health care, fostering the generation of people - are all enhancing our national viability and international competitiveness. The national interest is our membership of NATO, the European Union, but it is also the ability to respond to unexpected developments in international politics. We will be Latvians regardless of the language we speak at home! The Latvian - it sounds proud. This government has shown that it is capable of working as a team. There is no doubt that the experience of cooperation so far will enable the government to maintain the spirit of the teams and work on behalf of the common objectives: the ability to find compromises is one of the advantages of this government, it will allow the team spirit to be maintained and not to give up the objectives set. This government can no longer be separated and remain within the competence of one sector or ministry, ministries cannot compete, they must cooperate. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U3	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Let us start a debate. On behalf of the “From the heart to Latvia” fraction – Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U4	Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Dear colleagues, Is what we read and listened to in the Prime Minister's report? I will say that it is not the Prime Minister's report. ( Internouncing call.) It is a report of system officials for themselves, for the system, because this report does not already tell about people - how they feel in Latvia and what they expect from the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, and how their lives change from work of the Cabinet. It is a typical cliché text - a report by officials on how officials work - how many plans they have written, how plans they will still write, how research they have bought, how many studies they will still buy. And why can I say so? You will see any of these texts! Ongoing reforms are being carried out in the State Revenue Service, but in the same SRS it is not possible to answer one basic basic question – how much, for example, is one working hour paid? That is why this service can act so irrationally in the area of tax administration - dedicated resources to combat small and medium-sized business rather than really rationally handling taxpayers' money. We are proud of the fact that about three million... have purchased an OECD research database for annual fees. But that is not enough for us yet, we are buying further research from the World Bank and EBRD research, because we cannot work in good faith in the civil service for our already received salary. We have a plan to combat the shadow economy. We are faced with plans for the development of sectors. Of course, tax strategy is welcome, but... The feeling is that it is the production of plans for the production of plans after, because neither of these plans nor after one of these statements contains text on how life will really change for people here in Latvia. The other thing I want to talk about. There are high objectives, very declaratory objectives (and I am always in favour of ambitions and high targets, because only then can something be achieved in life), but the results to be measured are so modest. And here the Prime Minister mentioned an example: we are proud that we have reached the 14th place in the Doing Business Index. We have set the goal of having an investment environment here... such a very attractive business environment. But what actually happened? In fact, in 2016 the amount of investments has decreased, the number of employees in the Latvian economy has decreased. What is the result of the indicators we have set and their implementation if in fact there are no results in life? It would be like... you, Prime Minister, put your son in a position to be the winner of international Olympics, but his knowledge measured by an indicator that he knows how to count, count, divide and subtract up to a hundred. We also set beautiful goals, and that is absolutely right - for families to have an environment without violence, for children to be appreciated and for families to be coherent. But we are measured by very modest figures. We have held consultations on the importance of living... of course, it is important to live in a legal marriage. We've increased the benefit to foster families somewhere. But whether we have changed, or whether the government has changed the environment in Latvia by nature, which is very important, so that, starting with the school's promise, everyone becomes aware of themselves and grow into a person, so that he can realise himself in life here, so that there is an environment in which everyone can find a decent work with a human reward. And the third thing I want to talk about is the work of this government, which is actually sailing in one boat, but each one in his own direction. And I think it's very important that the part that concerns education... Perhaps one very important thing should be done, not going in different directions. I want to talk about competence-based education. It's very right, and it's... it must act, as it has been declared necessary to teach very beautiful fundamental values: responsibility, compassion, understanding, cooperation and so on. But what about real life? What kind of understanding, responsibility, compassion is shown by any government towards society? What can be taught to a child in a school step declaratoryly if the entire environment does not contribute to the creation of such values? I therefore call on you not to leave the unfortunate ministers for education and science alone in this very important task, namely to develop competence-based education. It will only remain on paper if there is no common work and understanding that it is important to bring these values - responsibility, cooperation - into the work of the government itself as such. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U5	Member of the Association of the Regions of Latvia Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U6	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, One of the members of the coalition said to me: "Mary, you say something good! You say something good for the government of Maris Kučinskis and Maris Kučinski.” You know, I wasn't going to say anything good, but I can offer this: Mr. Kučinski, no one believed your speech! That's good news. The good news is that you should have fulfilled those promises if you had faith. You're gonna be all right now. I don't have to do it. But if we are talking about how the first year of the government of Maris Kučinsky has developed, I will tell you this: the leaders are judged by two things: how they are able to choose and manage people and how they are able to manage the processes. Let's start with people. Yes, in this section, Mr Kučinski, I have to say to you that you have forgotten this in your report, but I will remind you. At the start of your work, you said that everyone in the government would work as one. Culak. Total. And I think that this government's work is best characterised by August 2016 when your Minister for Agriculture, Mr Dūklav, met with the Vice-President of Russia, without informing the Minister of Foreign Affairs at all. So working together was so “good” and “false”! And it also describes other models of cooperation between your ministers. ( The box “Lies! ”) ) As regards your ability to manage people and choose people, I cannot remind you of how successful you were in the search for the Director-General of the State Revenue Service and how you went with Mrs Koļego. At first, you chose, then released, and then made all kinds of falšu stories, all on national television and radio. Well, some incompetentness, Mr. Kučinsky. I must also tell you that the inability to manage processes that concern people, people's choices is linked to the head of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption. Now, listen to me when you took office, you knew that last year - 2016 - November... The term of office of the Head of the KNAB will expire. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What was this “e” just?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Have you chosen a driver? You didn't choose a driver. Don't choose a manager! Well, what do you do? Well, what to do... You didn't choose because you didn't plan the process in time. The issue of corruption is not being addressed in the country. And I understand... I know you're laughing, right? I understand that combating and preventing corruption is not your priority. These issues do not exist on your agenda, but I would advise you to focus on them because they are relevant enough in the country. When it comes to processes, you must say that your ability to manage processes is best characterized by the budget, however. The budget you say... Well, what do I say? First of all, you made chaos. Secondly, you offered special benefits to small interest groups. For example, you give tens of million to Ventspils Music School, but it is not enough for the National Secondary School of Arts to open a normal school on September 1. But... Well, I understand that their narrow interest groups, so to speak, live in your office. Finally, when you list all your sins, it must be said that you would have been removed from office for a long time, but those 27 million Members in the quotas, Mr. Prime Minister, fully helped you... saved your skin and your Cabinet of Ministers. Share with yours, share! Yes! And finally. Mr Krauze, a member of your party, recommended to me a fantastic thing - how to assess your activities this year. He said to be rated as a student. Well, you're in Class 1, you get a witness today, and I can tell you one thing: "The testimony says – Māri Kučinski, stay for the second year!" Good luck in the second year!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U7	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U8	President! Colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister! Poor student course work with signs of plagiarism - such a short description! As there is no clear target in this document, no analysis, no conclusions, no replies. And I am talking about the health sector and the health chapter. The report does not say a word about who will treat us, what wages will be and whether there is one to treat us. The medical professionals left in Latvia are getting older, but the young and talented, those who are not yet approaching retirement age, are fleeing from Latvia. Listen to the numbers! Only in 2016 have more than 100 Latvian doctors left, they have joined the thousands of migrants who have left Latvia and who will not return to Latvia. Mr Kučinska, are you aware and aware that, due to the lack of doctors and sisters, Latvia is on the side of the abyss, that there is a crisis and there will be no one to treat us? Social partners, sister organisations, medical associations raise anxiety and do it for a long time, but the Ministry of Health is silent. It has no vision of how things can be done well, the Ministry does not even have a staff policy, the rules and decisions previously adopted by the government are not being followed, including the guidelines for human resources development in health, which are coordinated with both trade unions and others... In our view, and in my opinion, it is a simulation of action, correction and the elimination of fires. But the ministries, the responsible institutions and the workers, like a stabbing head in the sand, do not see the real problems. The Minister promises a wage supplement for emergency hospitals. 10 per cent premium - excellently good! But what will it do? It is not at the same time a question of the provision of emergency personnel, and everyone will move from emergency to hospital, and there will be no callers. Unfortunately, these 3.5 million to resolve staff policy on an equal and non-discriminatory basis... The issue is not addressed. In order to provide a living for their families and treat their patients, doctors are enslaved in two, three, even four... in a number of jobs, not working in 160 statutory hours, not 240 hours, but 300, 400 and more! According to the classification of international organisations, it's recruitment! And most importantly: is the right to health as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia guaranteed to the people of Latvia? This is guaranteed by Article 111, which states: ‘The State shall protect human health and guarantee the minimum medical care of everyone’. And what, then, is this minimum guarantee of medical assistance laid down in the Constitution? No one knows this - ministers, Members, doctors, or patients. We can see in Europe two speeds... Two-speed Europe, and start talking about even three-speed Europe... ( Internouncing call.) And in medicine we see... Even seven, huh? Well, anyway, thank you... And that's what we see in medicine. The President of Latvia has the first level speed in medical treatment, and within two months of heavy things... No one else can get it. Well, maybe it's difficult... very well financially secured business representatives with access to huge resources. It is not available to ordinary people. That's why it's about... ( Minister for Health A. Čakša: “They are lies! It is a lie!” ) In parallel to these processes, waste and misfortune in the healthcare system as a beam in the eyes of the public is a waste and waste. Unfortunately, this is due to the position of the ministerial officials, who allow it. For example, the clinical university hospital of P.Stradiņš, which is built 40 million more expensive than a similar hospital in Tartu, Estonia; 10 million wasted on e-health... And these conflicts will continue with the emergency service and so on. The report states that there is a huge excellent World Bank study. Unfortunately, there is not even a tenth of what was prepared 10 years ago... and it was rejected by all doctors in the community. Unfortunately, what is happening... The optimisation of the hospital network is completely out of touch with the road reforms (Interface: “Time!” )...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U9	Mr. Schic, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U11	Name to Member Rihard Melgiel.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U12	Madam President, Dear Members of the Committee. The Prime Minister's report states that one of the priorities of government action is strengthening the economy. That is what it should be. But what about the truth? Is progress apparent from the fact that GDP grew by two percent in 2016 and investment dropped by 11.5? The slow implementation of the European Union's structural funds projects is mentioned as a reason for this. But how could they be activated if most of the Cabinet Regulations were finally approved at the end of 2016 and now there will be almost “deteriorated fires” in the remaining years? For example, builders are already saying that there is an increasing shortage of skilled labour and that it will have to be imported. It is argued that the government has actively worked to improve the business environment in the regions by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in creating new jobs and ensuring the improvement of the former industrial areas in the regions, which is an important issue for municipalities to address in order to attract foreign and private investment, develop entrepreneurship and reduce the migration of the population. The MoEPRD, in turn, advocates solving territorial development and cooperation issues, creating the functionality of municipal cooperation territories, integrating the provision of public transport, health and education services. How, though, will this happen? What are the routes for patients and schoolchildren? By what routes will entrepreneurs transport raw materials and finished products? This report deals with Rail Baltica, rail electrification, development of Riga airport, but there is nothing about roads - public roads with gravel cover, which all Latvia is talking about in the last two weeks. In addition to specific progress, the ministries provide citizens' initiatives on roads without pits sent by the Saeima, on the inclusion of a transport charge in the price of fuel as in Estonia and others. The government has not been able to agree on the further arrangement and financing of the roads or the renewal of the road fund. These are questions that we want to hear a clearer and more concrete answer from rural people and entrepreneurs in the regions. In order not to repeat what happens every year - spring passes, roads dry, level them, and drive until the next limitation period. It must not continue! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U13	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U14	Hello, honourable Prime Minister. Ministers! Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his vision of what the government has done. And, of course, one short report cannot record all the good things that have been done. And maybe there's also something that the government thinks they've done... For example, on page 17, there is a reference to the work done to restore the Latvian National Museum of Art. I have heard so far that for reconstruction the funding came from the municipal budget - 17 million, from the co-financing of the European Union - 13 million, but maybe I cannot appreciate the moral contribution of the Cabinet of Ministers to the reconstruction of this building. And, of course, not all that has been done can also be identified. In the report on what has been done and what has been planned, logically, every author writes inside what... how he wants to present his success story. That's logical. I am more interested in the part of the work of the government that has not been shown in this report, which is defaulted. You will say that, of course, it is not possible to name everything that we have not done. There are so many jobs! However, I think that the government has to take some care of the problems that have shocked the people of Latvia in recent years, if not even decades, and offer its own solution. Today I will only talk about one problem... on three interrelated issues. One problem is real estate. Question one. Determination of the functionally necessary plot. Let me say right away - in 2015 the government, of course, issued regulations to set up. But what are the results? If the government believes that everything has been resolved here and the Ministry, which coordinates and manages the activities of municipalities, has nothing to say here, then why did the government record it as one of the works to be carried out in the framework of its process in the project on the elimination of forced rental relations? The question of functionally needed land should have been resolved. The second question. On termination of forced split property or forced lease relations. Again, a question for several years... decades... Yes, the government submitted a bill to the Saeima. Is the government satisfied? Dear colleagues, We know for ourselves that the Saeima Commission has been looking at this project for a year and does not know what to do. At the end of the day, it has been decided not to return to the government for recycling, because it does not believe that the government will resolve this issue in a reasonable way. In fact, there is the problem here that the state, yes, government, public administration and local government, once gave the land to former owners (sometimes in suspicious circumstances). Returned instead of compensating or giving to others! Thus, this abnormal relationship - forced lease relations - was achieved. And now that we are aware that this mistake was made in the 1990s, how do you think the government offers a solution? The government says: “Love apartment owners! You are to blame yourself, and you must buy this land now.” Is this a reasonable solution for the government if we make a mistake in public administration, but pay the owners of these apartments?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A normal solution would be what the government should have done at the time: that is to say, the state and the municipality have to buy this land. And finally, the third issue relating to real estate is real estate tax. It is also an own-initiative question. For two years now, the government has been seeing no appeal in this tax. People are forced to leave home by selling their belongings so that they can live in their own home. It almost happens if you have worked hard and provided yourself with an apartment, then you pay the state extra for it. It's a penalty for having your own apartment and property. Someone will point out that this is a matter for the municipality and that the municipality can reduce these taxes. Is it really true that in Latvia we put people again in a situation of taxing and then going to ask for a benefit or relief. Is it not necessary, however, to adjust the amount of this tax at national level? The problem seems to be in a cadastral assessment, and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, which has frozen the cadastral value for two years, but there is still no solution. More than 10 000 people signed up to the sole residence exemption. We gave it to the government. The government had to provide a solution on 1 October. Yeah, the solution is, you know, the only housing, it wouldn't be fair... What will be the fair solution? At least 50 square meters, where a person has the right to live free of tax?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U15	Mr Kūtra, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U16	I call on the government to continue to work as a truly unified team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U17	Thank you. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U18	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Although the Prime Minister is not listening, that is nothing. Dear colleagues, I have read with great interest this annual report by the Prime Minister. Many things are welcome, acceptable to me and probably also to my group's colleagues. In particular, I would like to stress the reforms that have finally begun in the field of education thanks to Mr Šadurskis; the positive developments in the protection of the business environment, the efforts to sort out the business environment, as well as the government's commitment to finally sort out the area of insolvency administration. But at the same time, I can say that I find in the report things that should never be there. And, of course, my heart - healthcare, which is also traditionally left in this report as the last, and at the very end of the last page, in the second paragraph of the last paragraph - reports: "To achieve this, the government has conceptually supported one of the Health Ministry-led models of financing for health care, which provides for funding for health care through compulsory state universal insurance from the state budget." You know, the tragedy that is happening now with healthcare is turning this paragraph into a farce. In fact, at the end of the year, the government decided precisely the opposite: to stay in the medical budget by denying the possibility of compulsory public health insurance. Looking at the encyclopedia, maybe I'm left behind? What, then, is “insurance”? And it says there is a certain type of economic transactions aimed at providing insurance cover for people and their transactions. And, of course, there's an insurance bonus, which is determined by the insured person. Politically, I understand why this paragraph has been written there. To take away the weapon from the insurers: see, we have insurance. But this seems totally unacceptable to me, and all of this makes this constant and unsuccessful fight for increased healthcare funding even more difficult. As in the famous Russian saying, both ours and yours. So take what you want... When it comes to where to find funding for health care, there is absolutely nothing in this report, too. Of course, we are talking here about the master plan, what can be taken from the World Bank expert study, but it is absolutely clear to all that the financing reform must also go hand in hand with sectoral adjustment. Otherwise, there will not be anyone there soon to work, and this availability, this social-type health system, which we declare and which is described here, will remain just a fiction. At the very end, it is said that after two weeks there will be this new master plan, which will, of course, create a new storm of discussion in Latvia. That would be nothing, but the report does not say what will then go instead of these reprofiled or eliminated hospitals. There is no word about the development of outpatient care, which should take this place. This assistance at an outpatient, primary, level - that should then start. On the whole, after a positive assessment of this Prime Minister's analysis of what has been done and what needs to be done in the future, I regrettably did not find the directions for further development of our healthcare. That is really very sad, and we should all face up to this issue without dividing the government and the Saeima here, because it is a common thing for all of us, both as politicians and as a possible patient of the system.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U19	The name of Member Silvia Symph. Are Members opposed if Member Schiffa brings together both speaking times? There's no objection. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U20	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Sir, Dear Ministers and Honorary Ministers, I would like to express my opinion on the Prime Minister's annual report to the Saeima on the penultimate part of the activities carried out and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers ( 1.3. Demography and social assistance) and the last part (1.5). “Reforms in healthcare”. Significant, I think, is this place dedicated to the basic needs of our nation and every nation's population in the report! And how is this consistent with the status of our country as a member of the European Union and a member of the Nordic family? These national unions value the basic human needs, quality of life at all stages of human life, and standards of health care. In these areas, countries are investing huge amounts of work and resources because they are aware that it is a contribution to the main wealth of the country, the people. Latvia is, unfortunately, in the tail everywhere. With us, unfortunately, the recognition of a person as a value is more in words than in works. But I believe that when the Prime Minister of our country starts his annual report to the Saeima with health care, employment and social security and informs us of all the instruments used by the government in order to achieve continued positive dynamics in these key areas, it is realistic that more people will be born in the country than will die, that people will no longer leave, but will start to return. Is such a change of thinking and attitude unlikely? No doubt we just need to want! Will this happen to us? I'm an optimist. But about the content. Some accents. Progress is visible in family state aid policy alone. However, this sector, like the whole area of social security, is too little and too slow. Human life is moving faster. For years, the Latvian Association of Multichild Family Associations has been asking for and asking to address the issue of the right to ask for early retirement by linking the years of early retirement to the number of children cared for. Leonīds Mucenieks, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Multichild Family Associations of Latvia, is rightly pessimistic. I quote: “It is already clear that the good family state policy guidelines for 2011-2017 will not be implemented by the end of 2017 and, unfortunately, no one is proposing to extend this period for the time being, but to supplement their action plan with new initiatives.” Totally empty of real but so significant (especially for pensioners) specific works is the heading "Pension and social security". And this is in this very dramatic situation, where more than 130,000 people living next to us, with an average length of work of 36.3 years, are forced to survive with a pension of between EUR 150 and 250. Social security benefits - remind me! - is 94 euros. How is this even possible if prices are rising both for food, medicines and public utility charges?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I would like to know how often this question is asked by the welfare minister, Mr Reira? The last section of the report, entitled "Reforms in healthcare", is very weak, as is healthcare itself. World Bank study, information report, odious e-health, which still does not fully work. And that's the whole year's job! It is thanks to pressure from patient organisations and support from the Saeima that there is positive progress in the field of oncology. But that's a lot too little! ‘ The Green Corridor, earlier diagnostics, more patients who have received oncologist advice, is nothing if they do not follow fast and high-quality treatment. And with that, we have great problems. In Lithuania and Estonia, the National List of Compensatory Medicinal Products includes twice as many recent generation medicines as in Latvia. For comparison: various localizations for cancer, multiple sclerosis, schizophrenia, depression, diabetes mellitus and other diseases in Latvia include 24 new generation medicines, 51 in Lithuania and 53 in Estonia. In all three Baltic countries, the new medicines are evaluated before inclusion using the common guidelines for the economic evaluation of medicinal products, while in the further process Estonians and Lithuanians assess the benefits of including the latest generation of medicines from both the health and economic point of view, and allocate appropriate funding. In Latvia, the latest generation of medicines for cancer patients are included in the list of compensated medicines, based on financial considerations, while other criteria - treatment duration, efficacy, patients' feeling of being treated, life expectancy and quality - are not taken into account. That's not right! That's what doctors and patients say. Doctors oncologists say that in Latvia, medicines used to treat cancer patients are out of date, not even the standard treatment that has been used in developed countries for 10-15 years, not to mention really modern medicines, which, for example, allow to achieve remission in cases of metastatic cancer, prolong survival and reduce treatment costs in the long term, which are significant benefits for people and the state. Nothing in the report has been found about the method of measuring health technologies, which has been in place for 20 years in the Member States of the European Union, which allows patients to have access to safe and effective treatment at affordable prices and generally contributes to the maximum effective and transparent use of the limited health budget. European Commissioner Andriukaitis already invites countries to take the next step and to cooperate in this regard. What contribution will Latvia make if Latvia uses this method to date very limited? In other countries, including our Estonian colleagues, there are structures working on this method. How do I appreciate the work of the Cabinet? With a trio - unfortunately no more.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U21	The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U22	Madam President, very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! Thank you to the Prime Minister for his report. There are a lot of important things there. However, I would like to say something about something that was topical, both last year and now, and it will be topical in the near future. That is, it's tax policy, it's tax policy reforms. There are, of course, many very important issues in this area, such as the zero interest rate for reinvested profits. But there's a tax that's just like it went into this scope, and it's a real estate tax. This is, of course, not part of the government's balance sheet, and the government may not have to give priority to this either. Just where is the problem? The problem is that, at the moment, this situation has become unbalanced. In particular, in recent times, cadastral values have made this burden almost impossible for citizens. And if we stick to the previous system, as it is at present, citizens should go to their own municipality, there should be an objection, and the municipality has every right to regulate this tax as it should be. But what happened last year? The government, the Minister of Finance, so to speak, took up this issue, said that the government would address it and resolve it, that it would come with its offer and that the situation would be clear. Unfortunately, the fate of this tax has not really been heard in recent times. There are some features and some of the publications have been, but that is all. On the last Monday, March 27, people will protest at the Saeima House that this tax burden is intolerant. And the question is, what do we need to answer them? Will you answer the old man: “Go to your local governments and protest, and tell them to settle!” Will it be new - that the government will solve it with some unnecessary minimum or something? In fact, however, the government has kept the Saeima under a blow in this matter a little bit. That is why I will be asking the Prime Minister very much, either today or perhaps in the near future, to give such a vision or clarification - what will we do? Will we go one way or another, so that we Members can ultimately tell protesters at the Saeima House where to protest - either at their own municipality or at the Ministry of Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U23	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U24	Dear Prime Minister, Dear Ministers and Honorary Ministers, A very important day, because this is the rare time that we are listening not only to the Prime Minister's report, but also to the vision of future economic and national development. I therefore think that there is a good reason and a good opportunity here to express our opinion on what needs to be done so that, however, our country's situation improves even further than the Prime Minister has already described to us. However, the first year of government is more important than the first 100 days. Therefore, the annual work could be expected to have integrated parameters, not just those that the Prime Minister told us about in his report. The report shall contain a list of the work carried out. Well, if it is written that the Rail Baltica agreement has been signed, then it is clear that it has been signed; if it is written that another agreement has been initialled or signed, it is good. We understand this very well. However, the report does not contain indicators that describe what has changed in Latvia during the year. Indicators such as access to the Doing Business TOP 20 or the European innovation tab are available. However, the main parameter that characterises the state of the body in Latvia is gross domestic product per capita. And it was the fourth lowest in the European Union in 2016. And it is not clear what changed in Latvia last year - during the period since the government of Māra Kučinska started (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) his work. Is it improving... really right... Is that so? There is nothing here to describe this important parameter. There's another parameter, the Gini coefficient. This is an uneven distribution of income. And in 2015, before Maris Kučinskis started to lead our executive, it was 35.4. In the European Union, it was larger only for Lithuania and Bulgaria, but for more than half of the European countries, the Gini ratio is less than 30. This means that Latvia is among those countries in the European Union where social inequalities are the greatest, and so we would also like to see how this indicator has changed and whether the government in general takes this into account when planning its activities. There is also a lack of an indicator such as the current account position. I would like to emphasise that both this indicator and gross domestic product per capita are indicators of national competitiveness. I have already told you about gross domestic product per capita, but I want to pay particular attention to the current account not only of government ministers, but also of Members of the Saeima. It is this indicator that most effectively reflects whether the country is approaching the economic crisis. Nothing has been written about this in the government's report, but I would like to remind you that Latvia's stability programme, which Latvia submitted to the European Commission last April, reported that Latvia's current account situation is worrying. It was negative and the deficit forecast increased from 1.9 per cent in 2016 to 3.9 per cent in 2019. Is this trend persisting or is the situation improving? There is no word in the government's report on this. This creates a misunderstanding in me, and I think it also reflects the fact that in reality strategic planning - it was Maris Kučinskis who was a member of the Saeima in 2009 and 2010 who led this orientation and economic supervision in the Saeima and even led a separate commission - is, however, not visible to the government. And that's not good. This is a criticism. And the last one...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U25	Thank you, Mr Pimenova, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U26	... There is no word about it, there is a lack of an external trade balance in the report, and that is very important. I would like to receive such information in the future. Thank you, Mary.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U27	Thank you. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U28	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Mr. Kučinski! I have to say that I have started to feel a little insecure since yesterday, because the Chief of Security Police said yesterday in his interview that when we criticise the work of the government, we may run counter to the interests of national security (Interface: Do not criticise!) ), and in that sense I must obviously be ready to leave this hall locked in handcuffs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Apple: “Or, or - poor!” ) But in the hope that this will not happen, I will turn to this report. I must say that I was very surprised and pleased to hear that this is a national conservative government. I hope colleagues from the Unity agree that their policies will be national conservative in the future. But what I want to pay attention to is... I would like to remind you of what you said from this platform a little more than a year ago - 11 February 2016. You said that the government should be a team working across society and not a different political elite for more or less near interest groups. In my analysis of this very important and content-filled sentence, I must conclude: on the one hand, the government ministers are saying that pension money should be invested in road repair, on the other, that it is not possible to invest pension money from the social budget in road repair. It is said that families of large children, and especially the birth of a third child, should be supported. However, as we look at this, through the keyhole in the planned tax reforms, we see that the children's families and the children's minimum wages will be the biggest beneficiaries of them. The report shows that the Ministry of Welfare apparently planned something to address the challenges of an ageing population, but this is in no way linked to another chapter on demographic issues in the same report. Furthermore, I must say that the report lacks one very important priority: the allocation of budgetary money within the quotas of Members. Because when it comes to the demographics for which 17 million of the national budget has been allocated, 26 million, divided into parliamentary quotas, is already more, and so it would be a higher priority than demographics, at least in 2017. In addition, continuing on the same demographics once again, we have to say that with one hand we are giving something, but with the other hand we are taking back. In particular, since 2017, almost all decisions made by the government in private kindergartens have led to higher training fees. Thus, once again, parents whose children do not learn municipal kindergartens for some reason. What do we see in the report on children left without parental care? It has to be said that until recently the Saeima had an opportunity to decide on this issue, but at that time the Saeima decided that, however, family support and deinstitutionalisation would not be a priority in at least the next two years. However, if we continue on education, it would be good if those children who do not have this family care or who have taken care of someone other than their biological family had the opportunity to be part of the education system. It is unfortunately, unfortunately, very controversial at the moment... This is not particularly possible. More. I would like to call, however, to listen to just a little bit of what this tribine says in such a very hateful and disgusting opposition. The fact that there are problems with cadastral values, we talked here almost a year ago. It is nice, of course, that now the government has also come to this, but perhaps there would have been fewer problems if you had listened to what we are talking about here and the proposals that we are putting forward here. Mr. Prime Minister! My colleague, Mārtiņš Bondars, has already said that one more year has to work. I hope that this year will be a more productive, fruitful and fulfilling year than what has been up to now. I hope that the reforms planned in the area of health will be more successful than the reforms in the field of education and that demographics next year will be a higher priority than Members' quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U29	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U30	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Colleagues! It seems to me that there is a lot of debate, but I would like to say: let the figures be spoken! The figures are accurate and show the trend. And, for example, for 2016, they show that exports in Latvia have increased by 2.1 percent, unemployment has decreased (for example, the number of jobs in manufacturing has increased by 6.2 percent). Latvia is moving and developing. The international study Doing Business Latvia has also ranked 14th place from 190 countries. 14th place from 190! Go on. European Funds. Provisions have already been adopted for 3.74 billion and 1.3 billion contracts. We have allocated 99.8 million more to defence, and next year we will also reach two per cent of GDP. You can also talk about the budget and tax revenues. Last year, there was a figure of 100.8 percent against the target, and this year, in January (in January - month, when the figures are generally worse!) the execution shall be 104 per cent. And that's why I think I have to look at the figures, not perhaps talk it out. And it's a pity that our colleague, Mr. Bondara, has disappeared somewhere and doesn't listen, but... Mr. Bondar... At the end of 2015, of course, he could not know these figures, but he criticised them. He had climbed into this trick like a circus--with a shoe in his hand. And what did he say? He said I can repeat what he said! - that the budget doesn't make sense, that the budget doesn't work like that shoe. But the budget, it turns out, was good. 2016 has finished with good figures. And Mr. Bondar's lying a lot. Yes! He lied about Mr. Duklav (he had coordinated his visit). Secondly, he also lied about cologne, because she has never been accepted anywhere, and what is not accepted cannot be forgiven. Finally, Mr Bondara also lied about what I have said. I have not spoken about the Prime Minister, I have spoken about him - Bondar - that he, as a student, must learn from his colleagues. You see, there's a respected head of the municipality - Nellie Kleinberga. But he didn't learn, he didn't learn. He didn't learn at the savings bank. ( Milestones.) He has not also learned from our colleague Artuss Neimina, because Artuss Neimins is a professional actor, but Mr Bondaras is still studying. And he'll learn that! That is why I really have a call: look at the figures, do not look at actors and at empty speeches, which unfortunately sound far away. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U31	Name to Member John Ruck.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U32	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, On taking office, the Prime Minister indicated that, under his direction, ministers would work as a single team. The Minister of Transport has said aloud that the adjustment and maintenance of roads is his priority. I will talk about regional roads. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's report to the Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet does not mention anything about it. Similarly, the amount allocated to roads in the three-year national budget does not indicate that the adjustment of roads would be a priority. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said that it is important to develop the economy in Latvia. Does it have any correlation with an unsubstantiated infrastructure? I think that this issue is particularly topical every spring for people, entrepreneurs living in rural areas. To say that Uldis Augulis, who is not in the office of Minister of Transport for the first time, did not notice it, I guess he can't. If people are talking about it all over Latvia, then the Minister of Transport should have known. In view of the situation in Bauska district and knowing that Mr. Augulis has been Chairman of the Council of Berzes parish, but this municipality is very close to Bauska, it is to be concluded that the situation of regional roads is not unusual for him. So this is the attitude of the Minister and the whole Cabinet of Ministers - the unwillingness to deal with the issue of regional roads. If the main roads of the country, thanks to European money, are largely in order in 2016, the future of regional and local roads and bridges without budgetary funding will be gloomy. The failure to repair roads and bridges, allowing them to collapse gradually, is causing considerable damage to the state and people. I would like to remind the honorable Cabinet of Ministers once again of the huge importance of any kind of roads for the development of the Latvian economy and, in particular, for the development of rural regions. At the end of each road there is either home or work, and the people of Latvia will not be able to survive without it. I would like to remind you once again that Mr Augulis has made the adjustment and maintenance of roads a priority for his activities. Therefore, I wish that he succeeds in convincing other ministers and the Prime Minister about his priorities and that, when meeting people living in more distant regions of Latvia, he would not be uncomfortable to look into their eyes. I very much hope that those rural entrepreneurs who are overcoming these difficulties today and are not supported by the government so that these roads can be organised... The government does not decide that they can use small aviation. I hope that the figures Mr Krauze named will continue to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U33	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. Do Members have reservations if Member Nanozol unites both speaking times? ( Intercretion: “Speak! ” ) Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U34	Hello, sisters and brothers! Good afternoon, Mr. Prime Minister. Hello, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the government led by Māra Kučinska is one of the best in Latvia's history. Why? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “It’s clear!” ) As an experienced manager, I can only admire the ability of Māra Kučinska to run a ship called Latvia under these circumstances. We, the Saeima, the representatives of the voters, have not set a target to guide this ship! I think if I were to run this ship without a goal, it would be very difficult for me. ( Interface: “That’s why you don’t lead! ” ) Next. If this is not the case, then it is difficult for Maris Kučinskis' leadership to draw up long-term plans. But compared to other governments, we see that they are working on such plans. Although we, the Saeima, have not set a target to which to lead the country, and there is no possibility of drawing up a long-term plan, the government of Maris Kučinsky is still trying to address the principles of good governance and to do what can - this action plan is to be followed. Next. As an experienced manager, I know that it is practically impossible to run a team if it has several superiors. It is practically impossible to run a team that does not have a real motivation system so that this team goes to its destination. And it is even more difficult to run a machine that is built to manipulate it rather than go together for purpose. Once again, I would like to commend the government of Maris Kučinskis as the first, as far as I know, government that respects the principles of good governance and works according to action plans. The Cabinet of Ministers, led by Māra Kučinska, is the first to try to respect and take care of the health written in the Constitution. There is hope that in the future we will no longer have a budget that supports pharmaceutical and medical equipment business. This is the first Cabinet of Ministers, which is well aware that protection of our country is primarily in our own hands and supports the Earthguard. This is the first Cabinet of Ministers to really defend the interests of farmers and fishermen. As an example, I can mention the case of our ship detained in Norway, where our Minister, Mr Dūklav, is actively fighting for the interests of our businessmen. Māra Kučinska's office has begun, and it could be said, historic, bold reforms in the area of taxation, which are essential for our country. And I am only admiringly looking at the courage and endurance of Mr Šadurskis, through reforms in the field of education. But as a Member of the Saeima, I call on Prime Minister Maris Kučinski to negotiate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to make it aware that the primary objective is the well-being of our country and citizens, and only then the diplomatic "plays". As a Member of the Saeima, I call on the Prime Minister to come forward with proposals to us, the Members of the Saeima, what would be the long-term objectives of our country to direct this ship. ( Internouncing call.) Go on. I call on the Cabinet to develop a long-term action programme and work in the long-term following this long-term action programme (inter-referendums.) , and I call for the creation of a system of motivation in the state apparatus so that the state apparatus is motivated to go to common goals. ( Milestones.) And my final call is not to be afraid and take care of the well-being of the population, to raise significantly the minimum wage and the non-deemable minimum. Finally, I would like to call on all of us to realise that the welfare of the country and its citizens is our primary and primary task. And this can only be achieved by moving the economy. We're in the land! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U35	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U36	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers and ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I will only talk about one subject, because in such a short time, in five minutes, we certainly cannot cover much. On decentralisation. The Prime Minister's report also mentions this activity, which has been organised for several years by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, namely about areas of cooperation between municipalities. The report states that the first round of negotiations has come to an end. It is intended to integrate public transport, health, education and possibly other functions. However, the Minister, when we met in a political group, has repeatedly pointed out that already now there is nothing in fact preventing the government from finding at least one function for its ministries and transferring it to the planning regions, which are, in fact, already the areas of cooperation between municipalities. Why are municipalities being shocked all the time, people who live there are being shocked because there is uncertainty all the time? Where, then, will the small regional centre be, which will not, in principle, be a region, but a model of temporary cooperation between local authorities, perhaps? So I call for one thing to be found and for it to be passed on to the regions together with the funding. The same problem also arises in the context of the State Revenue Service. Today, too, the reforms that are needed in the SRS to make it more friendly, and so on, have been mentioned on a number of occasions. And under these reforms, many regional structures of the State Revenue Service are actually being eliminated. I have to repeat what I said at the time of the adoption of the budget when we pointed out that up to 30 jobs would be lost in Gulbene, Kraslava, Tukums, Ludza, Valka, Limbaži, Talsi and Ogre. At second reading, we came with a concrete proposal: to increase funding for strengthening the regional structures of the State Revenue Service or at least for maintaining and decentralisation, so that SRS staff directly carry out functions in the regions. They receive lower wages there, they are not as demanding to working conditions as in Riga. And yet it wasn't done. Although the Minister said here, even from this troupe, at second reading, (I quote): "Thank you for the proposal to increase funding, but for maintaining regional structures there is no need for funding at the moment. There is no need for increased funding, as it can be done within existing resources." These are the names of the minister. At that time, I must say that naive, still naive politician, trusted the Minister. But very recently we met with the Director-General of the State Revenue Service, and when I asked what the next plans would be, whether these regional units would be reduced, she said: “But the process has almost ended. We have already actually reduced these regional units." So how can we trust the government? How can we trust what ministers say here? This is about lying. Here is a concrete fact that the Minister lies. These regional divisions are being eliminated. I therefore call on the government to really take care of regional development not only in words but also in actions. New cooperation areas do not, in my opinion, need to be established, they do not need to be imitated by action. If you have at least one function that you can give back to regions, give it back to planning regions along with funding. ( Interface: ‘ All right! ’) ) I am sure they will be over. And please don't tell you that you are reorganizing state revenue services and other public bodies for public purposes, but at the same time still, still, to reduce the number of employees in the regions. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U37	The name is Anda Chakša, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U38	Good afternoon, honourable Members, honourable Members! The healthcare system has been mentioned a lot today, and I think I have to answer some of the questions that have been raised here and clarify some of the things that have been raised. If we look at mortality rates, we should say that mortality rates never appear within one month, not even within a year. And, looking at the cumulative financial deficit in the healthcare system over a long period of years, I must say that this is the first government to say very clearly that in our country, mortality rates are the second worst in the European Union for the population under the age of 65 and clearly defined that healthcare is a priority. And here I have to say very much thank you, Mr Kučinskis, as the head of government, who has courageously taken up health care as his own. In response to the specific questions that have been raised about the Green Corridor, I have to say: if I call at least one work in this government that I will be proud of, then I would say that the Green Corridor has been created. Because, as I have heard from patients, within ten days, it is not just an investigation; within ten days, the patient even goes to the surgery table, is being healed, and the next stage - it is beginning a recovery. Mārtiņš Schics talked about two speed medicine. I have to say that he, as a medical doctor, should know that every patient wants to feel special when in the hands of health care professionals, but all patients are always the same; the doctor's competence is not changed, his knowledge is not changed in the case of any patient, and all patients now have the same healthcare system. And here's the answer about insurance or shared basket. And I must say thank you to the government that it is able to hold that we have a uniform amendment principle and that there is no more divided door in our little system, that one deserves only a part, and the other, something more. One of the questions is about e-health. Yes, I got it, so to speak, half-mile behind curtains, and now many people would like it not to rise, but unfortunately, e-health is up, it speaks. And, of course, at this moment someone does not like that her hair is greasy and the sheets aren't in the right color... But e-health will bring transparency, clear records and benefits for citizens! Everyone will be able to see what records are on his card, quickly at the disability page and also at the e-prescriptions. Medicinal products have not been evaluated. Medications are evaluated in the same way as it has been accepted internationally. Now, of course, because of the limited funding, not all medicines have been included in the list of medicines eligible for reimbursement, but all of them are being evaluated and the issue is being examined together with the competent professionals. We all and I, too, want everything to happen very quickly and for a rapid victory to be more and for healthcare to develop even more quickly and for the people of our country to be healthy. I regret to say that many things are happening in our heads... and they don't change so fast... But I assume that the path that we are going on today is to optimise the hospital network so that the same quality service is available everywhere in Latvia. To really think about all the inhabitants of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U39	Thank you to the Minister for Health. Dear colleagues, Members Smilten, Brigmanis, Dzintars, Šics and Adamovich ask for the Saeima to continue its sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( The transcripts are: “That’s right! We have just warmed up!” ) There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the Saeima sitting is continued without interruption. The name of Member Nelli Kleinberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U40	Speaker of the Saeima! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ministers! Colleagues! I would like to give my opinion today on two things. I will start by saying that last October the road map of the Cabinet of Ministers – “Efficient, Responsible and Flexible Public Administration” – was passed to the discussion, the implementation plan of which was already presented at the Commission of State Administration and Local Government on 1 March. I believe that this is a very long-awaited reform, and I express my hope that it could have the support of most Members. And society is also waiting for this reform. We need a professional, flexible, responsible and proportionate public administration. This reform is not just about reducing numbers; it is important to emphasise the professionalism and attitude of the official, so that the work carried out by the officials is meaningful and focused on a concrete outcome, which also means taking responsibility for the progress. But a real implementation of the reform will definitely require strong political support. I call on you to develop the most comprehensive discussion process involving all the political parties, the public and the social partners. It would be a pity if this reform were to be postponed or postponed. In my opinion, the most critical moment has come when public dissatisfaction with public administration, including the Saeima, can also create soil for much louder protests. The second point I would like to make today is the work started last year at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which visited municipalities on territorial development and cooperation issues. The main objective of these negotiations, as stated in your report, is to prepare proposals for the legal framework for the establishment and planned functioning of cooperation areas, integrating public transport, health and education services into them. But how, where and what will determine, for example, integration of functions of the State Revenue Service, the State Fire and Rescue Service and other institutions? By participating in the meetings of the planning regional development councils, in almost all regions, with the exception of Pierīga, it has mostly been a matter of hearing only of displeasure about drawing such a cooperation area on paper, which seems to be a imitation of work rather than a meaningful and logical act. Latvian municipalities have for a long time carried out works, as you know, and have developed very successful forms of cooperation to ensure municipal functions. If the planning of cooperation areas concerns public direct management bodies, it is not acceptable that individual institutions still ignore it and act at their individual discretion. Such self-employment only creates uncertainty and uncertainty about the real objectives of the designation of cooperation areas. In recent years local authorities have been increasingly accused of blasphemy. They were so influential that they hinder the implementation of reforms and do not think about the common interests of the country. I cannot agree with this view. Because it should be remembered that we, everyone and everyone, live in one of the municipalities of Latvia and that it is the municipalities that ensure the quality of life of the people and the provision of basic services. Local governments are the first to receive feedback from the population in relation to decisions and laws taken in the country. If these decisions taken by the government are not in the interests of the majority of the population, then the opinions expressed by the local authorities are the most real litmus paper that shows the weaknesses of the government's decisions and laws. Finally, I would like to recall what was written in the government declaration a year ago: "The important role of dialogue with society in the implementation of the government's work is to highlight the important role and shared responsibility of every Latvian citizen in the development of the country." The ability of the government to address the public needs to be strengthened. With this, I call on you also to cooperate with the opposition parties by addressing them separately, and also to call on the ministries to cooperate with each other. And before any important decisions and opinions are taken, however, to pay attention to the public and to create a serious and extensive discussion. Thank you. Good luck! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U41	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U42	Hello! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! The work and report of each government can, of course, find some outstanding work and shortcomings, and of course it is a sacred duty of the opposition to look for them. And thank them for that. I could want sometimes a more drastic opposition, but now, as you say, the neighbours and the opposition are not chosen. ( Intercretion: “It is true! ” • laughter.) Today, however, the Prime Minister's report was, of course, not just about the work that has been done or about the work planned. It was also about some of the challenges. Whether we want it or not, but big challenges usually also require quite a lot of investment. And, of course, the most important challenge at the moment is whether we will be able to fully accommodate and deploy the multinational battalion of NATO allies in the territory of Latvia under the leadership of Canada. We are already used to having NATO soldiers in Latvia, but one thing is the soldiers who come to the training, while the other thing is a permanent contingent: there are quite different levels of requirements, both in terms of service and domestic conditions. There are barracks, sports complexes, warehouses and much more. And that is why there is a need not only for huge funds, but also for huge-scale construction work, and then the question arises as to whether we will be able to deal with them quickly and qualitatively. It would also be possible to mention large-scale purchases in the near future aimed at improving arms. Well, in the past, we could only dream of such a procurement plan! Two days ago, we met colleagues from the German Bundestag Protection Commission, and when they learned about all our plans, about the situation, about the extent of our work, they saw such a rather obvious white envy. We plan to invest large amounts of money in putting the border in order and improving the capacity of border guards. The State Fire and Rescue Service has received more than 30 new tanks this year. And, you know, it was today that we met the principal rescuer in the Commission and asked him, “Well, what is it?” He said, “You know, I can’t complain about equipment right now!” For the first time in my Member's life, I have heard the following words! This has never been the case before! Last thing. I would also like to mention KNAB. It must be believed that KNAB for this long year (I repeat - for years!) too. the unsolved problem will end with the successful conclusion of the newly announced competition: several promising candidates have already applied for the post of KNAB manager. I could refer here to a few other sectors that have been stagnating or swimming down the stream for years, and also the government of Maris Kučinskis has finally taken action to deal with these issues, but you already know which sectors are and which are the ministers to whom coal is being put most at the moment. So let the government work! It's not all so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U43	The name is Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U44	Hello, honourable Members of the Saeima! Colleagues! A lot has also been said about the economy today, so I want to share with you some reflections. First of all, I would like to say that Latvia's economy is growing, despite various external circumstances, and is growing very stable. Last year's growth was slightly lower than we planned, growth was 2.1 percent, but quite clearly we see good growth this year, and overall, events in the European Economic Area allow us to talk about stable growth. It should also be said that in the last quarter of last year there were excellent indicators: industry grew by 13 percent, as well as our export performance improved. A little bit about what needs to be done next. First of all, I would like to say that we have already forgotten that what the government has done is very important: the government has done everything possible to resolve the security situation in Latvia in such a way that this issue is not an essential subject for discussion. I have to say we forget that shortly before the Warsaw Summit... The concern about what would happen geopolitically in the Baltic situation was also huge in the second half of last year, but after this decision and clear action by NATO, the situation has improved considerably. And I have to say that the decisions of the government, which intend to finance all kinds of security programmes, as well as military and internal security programmes, from the same much criticised budget, have allowed us to say that the Baltic, as well as Latvia, is on the safe side. It has also improved the overall market situation. And if we are talking about the economy itself, then it must be said that last year a very large number of extremely important domestic work has been done. There is a well-ordered business environment that is internationally appreciated, much has been done in energy policy to ensure industrial growth, and a great deal has been done to learn European funds. We can see that this economic machine is starting to work. We see very good results in agriculture - grain exports are growing, dairy exports are growing; industry is developing very rapidly - we see an increase of 13 per cent in the last quarter of last year, as well as in January. Services sector. Let me just mention tourism, seven percent. Very good growth is in education, in the export of ICT we are approaching the export of Estonian ICT very quickly. I think we'll be able to get ahead of Estonia. What we do is enable us to focus now on extremely important work, that is, to restructure the economy and move it towards added value. And here's a lot of work being done. Firstly, it is education. This is perhaps less spoken of, but here I would like to mention the so-called Council of three Ministers, the Employment Council, which is composed of the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for the Economy and the Minister for Welfare. This Council meets once a month and tackles extremely important challenges such as bringing education systems closer to labour market needs, adult education, and the involvement of educational institutions in adult education. And one thing is absolutely clear: not only security or available capital, but also the fact that citizens will have sufficient knowledge of how to act with that capital is the basis that will develop our economy. A very good result is the Latvian startup law, which has given a clear signal to the international community that we think about Latvia's start-ups. Now there are more than 200 start-ups in Latvia that have been able to attract more than 140 million investments, and I think that we will also be able to talk about very, very successful results in this area in the future. Last thing I want to say. A great deal has also been done in the environment of Latvian science and universities directly for transfer of knowledge or technology to business. Here, I would just like to mention two examples. Riga Technical University has done a lot to develop various institutions for interaction with the real economic sector. Let me just mention a design laboratory where any businessman can come and find a solution to his or her problem, as well as many other problems related to student entrepreneurship. As a second point, I will mention the CAMART project, which is implemented by the Institute of Solid Physics of the University of Latvia in cooperation with the Swedish Institute of Technology. An excellent programme has been set up, supported by the Horizon 2020 programme, which is the centre of excellence in the field of smart materials. And in the future, I think, we'll see a lot of scientific start-up in this field.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U45	Minister, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U46	If possible, another minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U47	Do Members agree that we are extending? ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) Please have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U48	As the latter, I would also like to mention the social aspects of economic growth. At the moment, we can see that the economy is developing in two areas. In Riga, these are mainly services with high added value, while the industrial economy is developing in the regions. We see excellent development of industrial zones in Liepaja, Ventspils, Saldus, Jelgava and so on, and so on. And I would also like to say that there was an excellent discussion in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. We talked about the lack of funds for local authorities to build new residential buildings. We were talking about the example of Valmiera. In Valmiera, given that there are, in fact, more jobs than the working age of the population, there is currently a shortage of at least one thousand apartments. Valmiera has already laid the first foundation stone for the construction of new residential buildings this year, and it is a very good sign that the economy is growing, the economy is developing not only in Riga, but also in the regions.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U49	Minister, your additional time has also come to an end.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U52	So I wanted to say that the economy as a whole is developing better...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U53	Minister, please follow the parliamentary roll. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Let him take my minutes!” ) The word in the debate on the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U54	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Sir, I would like to talk about two issues on which we will have to work very much and thoroughly together. The first issue that Member Gunārs Kūtris has already raised here concerns the problem of shared property. This problem started in 2008 and in the middle there were several... The judgements of the Constitutional Court were two. Unfortunately, these judgments of the Constitutional Court were in favour of land owners. I repeat: while protecting the interests of landowners, the Constitutional Court determined these percentages. These judgments are valid and binding on both the executive and the legislative powers. The government... was the task of several governments to solve this problem in such a way as to balance the interests and rights of the owners of apartments and landowners in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. During the term of office of Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, the government found a solution, this solution demanded 14 million euros from the state budget in the medium term. This EUR 14 million was intended for the benefit of the owners of the apartments - to cover all administrative costs relating to this process. This reform, the reform of shared property, is intended to be voluntary rather than forced, as one Member has just mentioned here. This voluntary reform, as I said, provides EUR 14 million to be used for the benefit of apartment owners. What are we offering? We are offered a fair solution that the state and the municipality must buy out all this land. What lies behind this offer? The interests of landowners lie behind this offer. Because these 200 million, all this amount, will be paid by the taxpayers, every one of the taxpayers, whether he lives in such an apartment or not, and these 200 million will come to the owners of the countries concerned - seven thousand owners. So I see that there is a specific objective here: to achieve a solution in the interests of landowners. What is the solution? The Saeima decided last year, just a year ago, on 17 March, by 83 votes in favour, that this project was conceptually acceptable, but during the period between readings it must be improved. This improvement has lasted for a year! Some Members have realised in a year's time that it is still a brother and that it is better not to do anything. Then, my fellow Members, let us work together! This is the work of the Saeima, and we are ready to help with all our efforts, we will look for additional support tools for apartment owners so that they can use the opportunities on a voluntary basis if they want to, redeem their... these land parcels of landowners. And the first and most important work to do, of course, is to identify these functional plots of land. Unfortunately, this is not being done, and everything is being stopped. And I can tell you why... who will benefit from the brake on this reform. The owners of the land will once again be the same owners as the buyers of the land. As we know, the value of the land is growing and they will also have a higher future income from the lease of land, from forced lease of shared property. So, my colleagues, I am calling you to work together in this direction! The other thing I would like to mention very briefly. On real estate tax. In the working group headed by the Ministry of Finance, we are going in the direction that we freeze cadastral values by 2020. There have been cardinal changes under the leadership of the State Land Service, and the cadastral evaluation methodology will also include such changes. This concerns cadastral value. If we are talking about tax policy, then we must say that local governments will apparently issue guidelines on socially responsible tax policies in the field of real estate tax. Finally, of course, it is necessary to set ceilings, say, up to 10 per cent - a maximum increase of 10 per cent per year for any real estate tax.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U55	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U56	Highly honorable Bureau! Colleagues! Dear Mr. Kučinski! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for sharing your assessment of our work today, and thank you also to those ministers who come and report to Members on what they have done. Perhaps it would also be worth talking here about the fact that it would be a good thing if every minister were to count on their area every year, then Members would have a greater chance to discuss each particular sector. On your work, I share the criticism of colleagues - constructive criticism! - and I would like to clarify one thing: what Mrs Betes said today... You are the team leader, and the team manager must unfortunately also be responsible for the names and actions of your team members. And, unfortunately, as the Minister for the Interior has not come to us today, I will ask you to explain what the public has really been worried about. In particular, Mrs Betes mentioned the words of the Chief of the Security Police: "If we question everything the authorities of the state and local authorities do, we are contributing to the loss of security." Those words sounded in “Morning Panorama”. So I want you to explain to us today: how much can we doubt your work and how much can we tell the reality from this platform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U57	Thank you. Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U58	Hello! Hello, Presidium! Prime Minister! Members of government! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to inform you that today the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis is present at the Latvian Municipal Union Council meeting, as well as meeting with local authorities to discuss the situation in the road sector, especially in view of the weather, which has affected gravel and local roads and their condition. I would like to respond to the comments made by the Member, Mr Melgiel and Member Ruck, that the situation in the road sector in general is not good. If we view statistical data, then more than 40 percent - 43 percent gravel pavement roads and 44 percent asphalt pavement roads - are in poor or very poor condition. Currently, the Ministry responsible for the sector is working very actively... We are working on how to attract investment, how to create the conditions for investment in travel - the country's main bloodstream - to be attractive, not burdensome. The Roads Act provides that all vehicles were to be diverted to national roads, all road user charges and 80 per cent of the excise duty on petroleum products. With the current budget, this year, such funding from the country would amount to more than EUR 500 million. But these amendments, which were made in 2008, stipulated in Section 12, Paragraph Four of this Law – “unless the Annual State Budget Law provides otherwise”. And since 2008, only one third of this amount has been allocated to national roads. The rest has come from the Structural Funds. ( The utterance: “But change the law! ” ) We are currently working actively to create an attractive investment environment for various investment funds to invest in our country's roads without increasing taxes and burdening other sectors. We are working very actively on this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U59	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U60	Highly honored colleagues! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ministers! Members! Indeed, this report is largely formal. As the Prime Minister has pointed out initially, he has read it only a few times. Obviously, they have read again today, but now they are loud so that we all hear what it contains. In the absence of an analysis of certain criteria, I can say that, when assessing the work of the ministries in question, I set out my interests in a couple of ways. What is being done, for example, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must obviously be described as the Ministry of Tourism, because the Minister of Foreign Affairs simply continues to travel. The Ministry of the Interior continues to buy from the Āboltiņa husband’s car and, if they do not comply with the procurement documentation, no penalties shall be applied. The quality of the investigation falls - from the renewal of the Latvian Police Academy there is no news. In recent interviews, the Chief of Security Police looks like some mushrooms are ate. Firefighters fight for the payment of overtime in court. The Ministry of Education and Science continues to fantate about the closure of schools, the measurement of the loyalty of educators, the liquidation of RPIVA in order to steal the funds available to it. The Ministry of Transport has to renovate the pitways at the expense of the social budget. A train from China, not unloaded in Riga, moved back to the same China. The Ministry of Defence continues to buy scrap metal, the selected security certificates are cancelled... Until now, for more than a year, it has not been possible to agree, as promised, on repair of armoured vehicles and manufacture of patrons in Latvia. The army lacks boots. Ministry of Welfare. There is no prosperity in our country! Pension taxation continues. You cannot receive a deceased spouse’s pension. The Ministry of Finance has no money. Searching for the Head of the State Revenue Service... Problems... A change in the calculation of the micro-enterprises tax when planning this year's budget. The Ministry of Justice continues to “touch” with insolvency administrators to have money for torches. Does not solve the issue of the six percent forced rental fee, even though the interest rate of the deposit in the bank is 0.3... 0,1 per cent. Continues to support large landowners and does not solve the problem of shared property, which has already been indicated to the Ministry of Justice several times, even when they had submitted to the Saeima Brothers regarding the termination of legal relations of shared property. The MoEPRD will continue to implement the waste management scheme and the unjustified collection of the natural resource tax. The number of unemployed will increase in the regions. In the Ministry of Economics, cogeneration schemes will continue and unjustified State aid will be granted to the implementers of these schemes. Wind parks, cogeneration power plants... Electricity price, gas price is rising. We see all this in the tariff. The Ministry of Health also has no money. The problems identified by the State Audit Office at the Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital... E-projects, e-health and so on... What do I mean by all this? The report was supposed to be not a mixture of letters... I don't know... from the epic of any but detailed problem presentation and solutions proposed. In particular, it was necessary to point out what had been done and what it planned to do. You can't do that, they came, they said, everybody doesn't care, and they went away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U61	Thank you. (Applause) Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U62	Dear colleagues, Thank you to the Minister for Justice, who proposed to speak once again on this topical subject - forced rental. I hope that not only the Minister of Justice, but other lawyers in Latvia read the full text of the judgment of the Constitutional Court and read all the arguments that have been written there. If you read the 2008 and 2009 judgments - two judgments - then you could understand that the situation was different - there was a lower cadastral value... 25 percent... A rise in tax... limit to the increase in fees... In addition, the owner himself must pay real estate tax from its amount. And when the Constitutional Court annulled this regulation and said that it was not good, because the right to property and the consequences of it were recorded in the Constitution, then the Saeima in turn imposed two norms - six per cent plus payment of real estate tax. This has damaged a better situation. But right now, when this forced rental has developed, the Ministry of Justice believes that the people who have received apartments in a house that has not been built on a foreign land are guilty. And this foreign land was given to the owners. What's your name? On behalf of municipalities and the procedure proposed by the government. If its land were compensated or another land was assigned, we would not solve this painful problem at this time. Therefore, we do not think that these apartment owners should pay for this land. It has to be decided by the government - how to reduce the cadastral value so that it would not be so large below these houses, and the question of how these apartments, like at the time of privatisation, had the opportunity to privatise... but at a reasonable price you have to talk about, not that the owners of the apartments... Another small note. Imagine the possibility for the owners of apartment apartments to meet together and agree on something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U63	Thank you. Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U64	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear Ministers, I am pleased that today's debate is so peaceful. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Skip three times!” ) I am quite clear that, in principle, every Member, every minister has his own priorities, there is a lot of these priorities, but for the Prime Minister, it must be much more difficult, because he, like the father of the family, cannot have a more loving or unloving child, and therefore the Prime Minister must balance all these priorities according to budgetary possibilities. I remember how Kučinskis, when he wasn't yet a prime minister, but was going to become such... his main idea was one: for all priorities, money can only be found on one condition: that is, if the economy of the country recovers, if the Treasury is fulfilled, then money can be found for these priorities. Then there will be both a medicine that cannot be financed at the expense of the road, roads that cannot be financed at the expense of the demographics, and so on. At the moment, in view of the fact that last year, however, no European funds have been drawn up, the public financial indicators are, however, quite encouraging and I would not like to say in this case that the government has worked badly. In industry, growth is obvious, export growth is also obvious, so it is a pleasure that Kučinskis really follows the principles he set for himself at the time - to revive the economy so that the country can have money and that each of these mentioned priorities can be realised. And I hope these figures show that next year, the government of Kučinsky will do the same - try to revitalise the stagnating economy - and he will be able to do so. We'll wish him that too. And about the decibels speaking. Of course, this is the case, and Latvians understand very well the truth that the emptyest barrel is the one that sounds the most distant and louder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U65	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U66	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Prime Minister! Hello, ministers and ladies who are left. I am influenced by people who are trying to do something. That is why I will not be as critical today as I will try to help with advice. Talking about déj? au sensation. Prime Minister, if you ever have to prepare such a report, my recommendation to you - do not do so again! Why? When I read this report, I got a déj? feeling va. I felt like I was sitting at high school in high school, in Soviet times, and reading the materials of the Communist Party Congress, the programme of how well we live in our country and how the Communist Party cares for us. I remember the facts that were told that, thanks to the Soviet power, heavy mechanical engineering in Latvia has increased 800 times compared to the time of independent Latvia and so on. Your report, in a very similar way... Let us say, you mentioned that in 2016, Latvia has the first place in the European innovation table: the increase is four per cent. Reading it gives us the feeling that we are almost innovation leaders. Gongs in terms of development! But ask any scientist who is dealing with it and he will explain to you where we are at innovation - both economically and geographically - to indicate the place. And if really innovation is all so good, then we'd be happy to invite you to the Saeima and you could tell us how we're doing in relation to the national innovation system. For some reason, more than that has not been heard. You were invited to get acquainted with the tax policy proposed by the Ministry of Finance. What is amusing? That is exactly what I have already done: there is over-exploitation of hope and interest, and I ask the Ministry of Finance to submit these calculations. Do you know there's in fact no calculation?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “There’s a reform!” ) Everything that has been up to now is only PR. With regard to this tax reform, the only clear figure is the only clear figure! - there are 100,000 euros to be spent on this tax reform, which is not yet available. ( Interface: “This is a new approach! ” ) Prime Minister, do you not think it would be more appropriate for you first to adopt this reform and then to promote it and make it a PR? Because now there's a feeling that they won't be there, so there's an urgent need to reciprocate what... what is being talked about and which has no calculations at the bottom. If we are talking more about calculation, then there is one very important nuance here. I call on you to pay attention to this. As you know, in this tax reform, one of the proposals is that one percentage point of compulsory social security contributions should be shifted from the special budget to the Ministry of Health... the financing of health care. The problem we found again... You know that one of your government's ministers - the Minister for Welfare - has said that the country's special budget is unsustainable. But we offer to remove another percentage... To make sure that there is no empty rhetoric, we asked: Give the calculations! The Minister for Welfare could not give such calculations. Then we turned to the Ministry of Finance and asked: how is it really - is sustainable or not sustainable? The Ministry of Finance said: “No, it is sustainable!” We: “Give calculations!” They could not give calculations either. And now there's no one... Everyone claims something of their own, but no one can give calculations. That is why we will put a question to you tomorrow on this. Please submit these calculations to us. We want to see not just the manipulation of the future forecasts, but the basis we are talking about - the original data, the methodology by which it is calculated - so that we can make sure that there really is. So these questions will be put to you tomorrow, and I very much hope that you will draw your attention to this. Go on. On the Ministry of Health. On health care. Indeed, this area requires major reforms and there will need additional funding. But the problem we are currently seeing is that the money is being thrown out in an empty bag... in a dark bag. Because it's really what? The Ministry of Health still cannot tell us how much it costs, what the cost is. It's not clear. And if you have tariff problems here, you can turn to me safely, I'm ready to help you. One of the instruments to be put in order... Putting in place some clarity in the area of healthcare is e-health. It would be a very powerful and powerful instrument. One of you should have come to the meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, where we talked about e-health. You know, that was the feeling that there was a fucking horse raging there and then trying to convince her that she would be able to ride. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Do you understand? Well... I'm sorry! I'll take those two more minutes here.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U67	Are there any objections from Members? ( Intercretion: “Speak! ” “Let’s talk!” ) Please! You have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U68	Here we go! There is one very important thing here. Why am I talking about this, Prime Minister? What's happening is really a dead horse we're trying to pull... We will prove it in “functionality” (footsteps). But what do officials do? They are trying to prove this functionality by following a job written ten years ago. To say that this is a functional project. To be able to use this European Union money in this way. But it is not really functional and usable. And yesterday it could be verified when it showed you how this e-health recipe was prescribed. He said, “See how everything works! ” But look at the real, practical life! No one with this e-prescription is actually available to the pharmacy and can not reprove it. If he goes to the pharmacy with it, there he is ordered by three more houses and demands that he come with paper. That is a concrete example. What would be important here? There is no one important functionality in this e-health project. That is, there is a question of how to trace money. So the identification of individuals and the real settlement system - it must necessarily appear there! This is not the case at the moment. But it's the main task. The most important task, regardless of what we are talking about and how beautiful we are talking about, how much money we spend in PR to tell us how good and beautiful we will live... The most important thing is how creative and susceptible people will live in this country. And that is our nation's question. This is a question of the existence of our country, of our prosperity. Therefore, in my opinion, there is no more important thing in this country that should be done than the reform of education, Mr Shadursky. Two things that should be done: one - the school network, this infrastructure, and the other - the new content. The new content will show whether we will be able to make our next generations more responsive, more creative, more competitive in this world, more profitable and able to prove that Latvia is the country in which we can be proud of ourselves, our government and the decisions we make. And I very much hope that you will help to cope with it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U69	Thank you. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U70	Hello, High Prime Minister! Ministers! Dear Members of the Committee. Members! Of course, in five minutes it would be very difficult for me to analyse in depth and expand on the education content of the eight paragraphs of the Prime Minister. So maybe I will only touch some things, I will give a dry opinion, based on professionalism, removing political responsibility. Dear Members, The officials of the Ministry of Education and Science have been working for 25 years, and all the Prime Ministers report to the Saeima on the progress made during the year. Unfortunately, the problem, as described in the eight paragraphs, is action... Of course, praise can also be given, for there is nothing on the ground. But if we look at the substance, we have a lot of problems in each section. They are linked to both primary and pre-school education and university education - up to doctoral degree. We will also have scientific problems because - as usual! - lack of resources. And here's the question... In the morning, I listened to the speech of the president of the trade union, and she said that the Ministry had not been able to arrange quality bonuses for teachers within a year. For a year! Today they will obviously provide a model of how officials should work. And in this respect, I think... I will give you one small example of this. Latvian football sample rating is 111th place in the world. And the question is, why? Don't they play from the heart and represent Latvia? They represent! But they just can't play better, because when they talk to experts, it turns out that a system that brings up from baby to craftsmanship in some way. And there are many problems. I think the professionals will tell you... And so is the ministers of education and science. They're changing! Parliamentary Secretaries, State Secretaries, are changing. By the way, the rapporteurs in the ministry are also changing... Until now, they receive EUR 660 under the Treaty. And they demand that they be masters at least! Well, imagine why... They do three months, the highest year, and they read away. Come next, and things are bucking again. And I'm talking about the content and quality of education, about the department dealing with it in the Ministry. I think that the last time there is something to do, so that we do not have to try again that there is nothing, nothing can be done. These officials are unable to do so! Next. From the 5th to the 12th Saeima The Education, Science and Culture Commission has been composed of 100 members, who took responsibility to arrange education, culture and science in Latvia. Of these 100 people, only eight had higher education. I think the doctor who makes a diagnosis of a sick person... You can’t be that someone who has read something about medicine says: “You know, you have to drink that medicine or do surgery! ” This can only be determined by a specialist. When will we finally get some kind of professional responsibility? Why can we not replace those who take care of this process? Wages we raise... What's the bill? On account of the increase in the number of hours! But that's another thing. I believe that, unfortunately, it cannot be... And is it not rational: first of all, to create an education system, clear, approved at university, discussed by a professor? You can also invite any expert from abroad and then create a change of content of 14 million instead of talking about our children from six years of age to learn, and so on. And closing. We have two national heroes in Latvia - Lāčrupis, described in Andrejs Pumpur's epic, and what Solvita Āboltiņa of the troupe said that we also have one great hero - the Minister... Yeah, he's got a tough mission... So we have two heroes. I think it's a pity that we don't have any eight of them. ( Minister of Education and Science K. Šadurskis: “Oi, earth, open! ” ) Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U71	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U72	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Mr. Prime Minister. Today you have been listening to everything for two hours and thirteen minutes. I hope that we will end here. I have noticed that you like rational proposals. And before I was talked to many of my colleagues here, it came to be very simple to advertise and be in front of the cameras, to be louder than to be louder, but that's what I'm rational about... I like to talk with a view ahead - not about how it was, but about how it will - because that, I think, is more important. I want to draw your attention to e-health... Where's Mrs. Chash gone? Maybe then you... You're like a ship's manager... Then there is a serious problem with e-health: we have spent EUR 14 million. The project doesn't work! And what's all the worse is, MANY together with the Ministry of Finance... They have to provide a test by 31 March and if this test does not take place with this e-health, we will lose EUR 580 000. Please enable all your possible tools to control this process so that we can perform this computer test. But the ministry itself... with VARAM at the forefront... has already said that she will not be able to do it, because time is too little and the test cannot be carried out when... This is a lot of attention... And so e-health is a mistake, so money is wasted. In Estonia, it has done this for 300 thousand euros, and it works for them, but for 10 years... and still does not work, and we do not know who is responsible. But let's not talk about the past, let's talk to the front. Please record these 580 thousand and ask for this test both from the Ministry of Health, from the VARAM and from the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for this right now! That's the point one. Two points. Please, in the future... I know that until the municipal elections, because... Well, there will be a change in the composition of Members... Here, where... there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, there, somewhere... There is (The Intersor of the Group SAVES: “He will remain in the Saeima!” ) Man (Dep. E.Smilten: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) working now with someone who is politically and morally responsible for the Zolitude tragedy... Now it's going to work and go somewhere... in some wish together... It's a completely funny thing... But it's about... Please, after those elections... I hope you're not going to Riga, but stay here. There is a case like the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office is doing a blissful job, and if they do it, then they now have a function of its recommendation. Only and only! They can say: ‘ Here you are, where you have been badly wasted! Here it is! Here is where it is useless!” And so the other half always says, “Yes, but what is now?” And they have no responsibility. Here, in the Saeima, amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office have already been made to the second reading, and then they are somewhere here in the offices, stuck, and should... It's a function... on to increase... elevate this here penalty... That the State Audit Office may punish those officials, municipal employees - and so on - for useless... on the waste of Latvian taxpayers' money. Please help with your post of Prime Minister so that the State Audit Office has greater rights so that they can punish their official. Don’t let the members of your party say: “But who will work in local governments if they have so low wages and also have a responsibility?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ Do you understand? It's a nonsense... It's an antagonistic contradiction. If you work there, you have to be responsible. That's a point two. Three points. Please keep your name and do not allow any quota for Members to be allocated in the next budget. The budget has begun, I hope now, and you are on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, where there is the Debtor and Wuzan... I hope that you are already starting to work with it. There will be no parliamentary quotas. You said that, Mr. Kučinski! I ask you not to do that. If, in the case of a linger again, you start selling something again in some way for something so that you can get something... You understand very well what I am talking about. Next thing. Please really explain what is happening to Latvian taxpayers. Is it really that the Ministry of the Interior is buying John... How's the man's name? Jānis, surname - Āboltins... Solvita Āboltiņa's husband's company's cars? Are you sure? Because everyone just speaks and doesn't understand. As Prime Minister, come and tell you if you know. If you don't know, do an investigation. And, Chersi, listen! If it's like you say you're going to some kind of picket now... for those people who go out on the 27th date and pickets about that one house. Where were you when it was about micro-business tax?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U73	Mr. Neighbours, the Order Roll does not allow you to talk to the grass.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U74	Now you want to go out because you want to do something like your other... In short, Mr Kučinski, continue, hold the blames, please, but these things, which I tried to tell you, I think they are very good things in the future, and they should happen. And now thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U75	Thank you. The debate is closed. Does the Prime Minister want to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U76	Yes, of course, I would like to add. I would also like to thank you for the content I have heard today. Maybe if I'm allowed, I'll also comment on some. Because, of course, I will not refuse to stand behind any minister. Therefore, they are already ministers and are not exempted from work. And ask for forgiveness... We are a team, and we have to work together. Of course, there are very, very many advisers at present, never in my life have I had as many advisers as I have now. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Full grass!” ) But I have always listened to and will listen to constructive proposals, those that really talk about things that can be used at work, because for each of us, I believe, no matter where we are - a Member or a Minister or a Prime Minister - there is not something that we cannot improve. Only first should everyone answer the question of what I have done so that I can do better with the work that I have to do. Because when I became a member of the Saeima, I had one good advisor, who is no longer a Member, but he taught me two things that are very important. The first I used very rarely, it was as follows: when there is no camera, there is no point in speaking. That is why I understand that there were more speakers at the beginning to appear on the screen tonight. And the other thing I was taught was that if you want to be in politics and work for a long time, talk about works, talk about what you have done, what you haven't done, and don't talk about a man, because he's neither good nor bad nor we appreciate people. I would also like to thank Nelli for her very constructive proposals on cooperation and territorial integration. We will also discuss this with Mr Gerhard next week, because perhaps this point of the government is being formally fulfilled, but we have a number of ideas on how to act from the point of view of content, and then we could come to the rest. So it's on our agenda. I would also be pleased if we were to speak more often. As many people will also need to be involved in tax policy making. It's a joint job. Either we do it or we will not do it. And the answer to national security and members of the Saeima. You know as well as I do that the Saeima can do everything. And that's why you can already appreciate it. It's not a report from the Chief of Security and what he said about it... if the government is criticised, if the works that someone does or does not do... But we are always becoming... We do the same in those containers that we have to drink from ourselves. I assume that our country is loved by both the government and all the Members and citizens, and I therefore remind you: by saying that something is wrong here, we are simply helping our enemies. Therefore, the request is never to help our enemies who do not want to see Latvia's future, who do not want to see Latvian citizens satisfied and happy! And the last one. On reforms. I think that the difference between all the proposals that were very good and that covered both education and health - the difference from the point of view that things need to be arranged first and then there will be a reform - is that if we could stop the car, waste fuel and then put a new health... But we have to make reforms, and this machine has to be transformed into a car with fuel for driving. We need more... But we understand that this will not lead us at the required speed. And that's a problem. And, of course, what is said about e-health is absolutely true. I can't answer either the question of the previous time... on targeting. But what the Minister does right now and what the government does... The Minister asked me: Is someone to be punished or to try to go ahead? We agreed - we will go ahead and try to get out of this previous investment everything that is rescued. And in fact, there's quite a lot to save. And e-health must be introduced, not started, and all existing ones must be wiped out. So, honourable Members of the Saeima, thank you for today's negotiations. I also thank the Ministers for their commitment. Let us meet more often! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U77	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Consequently, this issue has been addressed. The next item on the agenda for today's sitting is "Review of draft laws". Draft law ‘Amendments to criminal law’, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U78	Dear colleagues, Let's get on with the legislative work. Draft law amending the Criminal Law (No 629/Lp12). For the second reading, 12 proposals were tabled. The Legal Commission has assessed these proposals and has presented its vision. Proposal No 1 – the proposal of the Minister of Justice. Partly supported and included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U79	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U80	Proposal 2 is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U81	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U82	3. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This has also been partly supported by proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U83	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U84	4. is a joint proposal set up by the Legal Commission, which provides that, in addition to materially acquiring benefits, crime and terrorism are also organised, which may not always be the purpose of obtaining the material benefit. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U85	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U86	5. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This was not supported because the numbering of the paragraphs did not change.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U87	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U88	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U89	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U90	7. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported. For the original proposal, we changed the wording a little, and we did not make it compulsory to confiscate, but to confiscate. So the court decides.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U91	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U92	8 / 8 - a editorial proposal by the Minister of Justice. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U93	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U94	9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau is also editorial. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U95	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U96	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Curra's proposal. This is partly supported and included in proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U97	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U98	11. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported. Attention should be drawn to the fact that here the time limit for the acquisition of property is no longer “a year before the offence began” but “after the offence started”. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U99	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U100	12. - Legal Bureau's proposal on the law's entry into force rule. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U101	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U102	The Legal Commission is therefore asking to support this draft law at second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U103	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 1, for - 17. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U104	Please submit your proposals by 31 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U105	31 March. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U106	Draft law No.630/Lp12 provides for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law. The Legal Commission has assessed the 20 proposals received, and this is the committee's vote. 1. - The legal bureau's proposal for a editorial abbreviation was not supported, because the existing one seems to be clearer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U107	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U108	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U109	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U110	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U111	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U112	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U113	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U114	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U115	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U116	6. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U117	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U118	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U119	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U120	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U121	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U122	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U123	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U124	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U125	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U126	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U127	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U128	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U129	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U130	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U131	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U132	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U133	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U134	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U135	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U136	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U137	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U138	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U139	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U140	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U141	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U142	19. - The legal commission's proposal. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U143	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U144	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Legal commission's proposal on the time of the law's entry into force. This is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U145	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U146	I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U147	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 1, for - 18. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U148	Request for proposals by 31 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U149	31 March. Members agree. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U150	Draft Law No 628/Lp12 is an amendment to the Civil Procedure Law and they are also related to all in one block. The Legal Commission has assessed 21 proposals received and our Commission's decision is as follows. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Partly supported and included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U151	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U152	2. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U153	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U154	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U155	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U156	4. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U157	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U158	Five more. - The legal commission's proposal - was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U159	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U160	6. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U161	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U162	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U163	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U164	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U165	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U166	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U167	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U168	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U169	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U170	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U171	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U172	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U173	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U174	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U175	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U176	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U178	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U179	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U180	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U181	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U182	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U184	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U185	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U186	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U187	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U188	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U189	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U190	And 21. - a proposal from the Legal Office, which shall be valid on the date of entry into force. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U191	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U192	Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U193	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 1, for - 18. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U194	Request for proposals by 31 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U195	31 March. Members shall not object. Dear colleagues, The entire agenda for today's sitting has therefore been examined. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! Dear colleagues, While the results of the registration are being collected, I would like to welcome, on behalf of all of us, our colleague Andris Buikis, who is today's birthday. ( The utterances: “Urah! ”) Thank you very much. And now the name for reading the results of the registration to Gunaras Kūtris, a member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U196	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Jānis Adamsons... Mr. Adamson, are you not? Gaidis Berzins, Mārtiņš Bondars, Lolita Čigāne, Ints Dālderis, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Andrejs Elksniņš (Interface: “I just went out!” ), Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Anrijs Matīss, Romanas Mežeckis, Ināra Mūrniece, Nikita Nikiforovs, Andrejs Siliņš, Jūlija Stepanenko... It's Laimdota Straujuma, Edwin Snore, Zenta Tretjaka... Yes, Ilze Viņķele and Mihail Zemlinski.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-03-15-PT12-409-U197	Thank you. Therefore, I declare closed the sitting of the Saeima on 15 March 2017. TABLE OF CONTENTS Saeima winter sessions 10. (extraordinary) Meeting March 15, 2017 Votes Date: 15.03.2017 16:28:17 bal001 On - 54, against -1, abstains - 17. ( Registry) (80) Motif of the vote: Amendments to the Criminal Law (629/Lp12), 2nd reading Date: 15.03.2017 16:31:17 bal002 On - 51, against -1, refrain - 18. ( Registry) - 80) Motif of the vote: Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law (630/Lp12), 2nd reading Date: 15.03.2017 16:33:56 bal003 On - 55, against - 1, refrains - 18. ( Registry) (82) Motif of the vote: Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law (628/Lp12), 2nd reading Date: 15.03.2017 16:31:17 bal002 On - 51, against -1, abstain - 18. ( Registry) - 80) Motif of the vote: Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law (630/Lp12), 2nd reading Date: 15.03.2017 16:33:56 bal003 On - 55, against - 1, refrains - 18. ( Registry) - 82) Motivation of voting: Amendments to Civil Procedure Law (628/Lp12), 2nd reading
