ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Prime Minister! Minister! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We will begin the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 21 July 2017. So, first of all, changes to the agenda. Members of the Saeima Pimenovs, Raimonds Rubiks, Ivans Klementjevs, Potapkins and Orlovs are asking to make changes to the agenda of the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 21 July 2017 and to consider draft laws “Business Income Tax Law” and “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax” after the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”. Are Members opposed to these changes on the agenda? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the extraordinary session of the Saeima and draft laws “Business Income Tax Law” and “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” will be considered according to the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 1, for - 47. Consequently, the proposal has not been supported, and no changes have been made to the agenda of the sitting. On the draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The next item is entitled ‘Transfer and examination of draft legislation to commissions’. First of all, the Bureau's report on the draft law submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions’ presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Thus, the Saeima's draft law has been passed on to the Commission, and the Commission has asked to review the draft law drawn up by the same Commission at the first reading of the Saeima sitting without re-examination by the Board. Are Members opposed to this? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the next item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U2	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This draft law has been introduced in the context of amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, which were returned to re-reading. Paragraph 72 of the Transitional Regulations mentioned the time limit which has already passed, and in order for this norm to comply with the facts, one separate draft law has been created, namely, from the norm, which states that during the period from 1 July 2017 to 31 August 2017 this information should be provided, we exclude 1 July 2017. Why could we not immediately introduce these amendments into the draft law under consideration? Because the roll of order of the Saeima determines that if a draft law has been rereaded, only such amendments may be made to it as are mentioned in the letter of the President of Latvia. We therefore need to carry out such a technical procedure, in line with the rule of the Saeima. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U3	First, the commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U4	This is primarily about urgency: to recognise this draft law as urgent so that these amendments enter into force with the amendments to the Credit Institutions' law, which we will see later. On behalf of the Commission, I call for urgent recognition.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U6	On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U7	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the first reading of the draft law on Credit Institutions Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U8	Yeah. As I have already mentioned, this is a technical amendment related to today's amendments to the Credit Institutions' law, so on behalf of the Commission, I would like to support the second, final, reading at this sitting as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U9	Are Members opposed to the final reading of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final, reading of the draft law on Credit Institutions Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On election of the Saeima Member Līga Kozlovska to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Līga Kozlovska to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Līga Kozlovska, to the Committee on Petitions. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Līga Kozlovska, to the Commission for Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Andra Morozova to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Andra Morozova to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Andra Morozova to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Andris Morozova, to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Ms Jelena Lazareva, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Jeļena Lazareva, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Ms Jeļena Lazareva, Member of the Saeima, to the Committee on Petitions. Please vote mode! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Jeļena Lazareva, Member of the Saeima, to the Commission of Petitions! Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Romana Miloslavska to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Romana Miloslavska to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Roman Miloslavska to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Roman Miloslavska to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On withdrawal from the composition of the Central Land Commission of the representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development of Sandra Berzins”. Please call me! I'm sorry! On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U10	Good morning, colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we looked at the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Central Land Commission of the representative of VARAM Sandra Berzins. In the Commission, we have also supported and ask you to support this draft decision at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On withdrawal from the Central Land Commission of the representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development of Sandra Berzins”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Inga Belasova as a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in the Central Land Commission”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U12	Colleagues! If a representative has been withdrawn, then someone else must be appointed in his place, and therefore a second draft decision has been made – “On approval of Inga Belasova, a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, as part of the Central Land Commission”. In the Commission, this draft decision has been seen and supported and I call on you to take a positive vote today to decide on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Inga Belasova as a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development as a member of the Central Land Commission”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - Act “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions”, re-reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U14	Colleagues! We are working on draft law No 799/Lp12 that has been handed over to us for rereading. The Commission has received four proposals. 1. - Member Dalder's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U15	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U16	Dear colleagues, This proposal directly affects the rules that led the President to refer this law to the re-reading. In particular, it concerns this voting rate, which significantly narrows the range of persons who could qualify for the position of the liquidator of the credit institution. In his article, the President of Latvia pointed out that this provision did not respect the principle of proportionality, as it severely narrows this circle. And, as representatives of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission said at our meeting of our commission, this may lead to the fact that, if a liquidator were to be quite urgent for a credit institution, it could have to choose between three and four applicants. And, as we know, this whole area has so far been quite, well, scandalous... Let us say that the events in this area have been rather scandalous, so I think it is up to us, however, to ensure that there is as wide a range of applicants as possible, and also for the court... at the beginning of the FCTC, but then the court would have the widest possible range to choose these applicants. I therefore call, however, for support to be given both to the President of Latvia's opinion and to this proposal, and, however, not to restrict the scope of these proposals to unjustified ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U17	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U18	Dear colleagues, As we remember, the President of Latvia mentioned these amendments to the Credit Institutions Law as an example of the most shameful lobbying that has taken place in our policy recently. And with this motivation, this bill was returned to the Saeima. As my colleague Mr. Dalder has already mentioned, quite scandalous events were taking place at the time, and the fathers of this amendment to the law were in custody. Colleagues, do we really have a moral right at this time to keep this parliamentary lobby under the influence of the adopted law in the version in which it was voted and which President of Latvia gave us back? Colleagues, I'm afraid it's not. This is a baby created by specific lobbys, and these people are now in custody as elements that undermine the rule of law systems of Latvia. Colleagues, please support Mr Dalder's proposal and arrange this issue in a way that does not expose us to the gross influence of the lobby, as the President of Latvia has shown us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U19	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U20	Colleagues, the company is shocked by such decisions of the Saeima, because it is obvious that the draft law was created either by playing cards or otherwise, and amendments of this kind are pushed through by SAID voices. Just get out of the way, despite the rational mind at all saying that it shouldn't be done. This is not about details. I know there will be a discussion: there is a need or need not be this limitation on the conflict of interest there, and so on. This whole draft law is questionable. And the fact that it is returned and voted unamended is in fact a spit in the face of the President of Latvia, who has said that there is a problem there. This bill is questionable and should be reviewed by the Saeima. Colleagues, I call for support for the Dalder proposals, but if they are not supported, they do not support the draft law at all.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U21	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U22	Hello, colleagues! We are listening to this absurd and completely illogical discussion at the moment. What you yourself got into a coalition and put before the Saeima. What we had to decide on at the time - the whole Saeima was forced to decide here - was that, if we were talking about the substance, it was the fight of two political groups after a good connotation. And the opposition sitting here had to choose either side or side. Why, then, did such a vote take place at the time? We chose what would be a legal and systemically correct decision. That is, the administrator who will administer the bank cannot have a conflict of interest. Because only such an administrator can objectively direct the process. If, on the other hand, he has a conflict of interest, if he has any connection with this bank, then it is only logical that he cannot be its administrator. That is why this proposal was supported. What you are doing here right now sounds really very strange and absurd. What should really be outrageous is that you, hiding behind high things, actually simply pursue your own selfish interests. Because we know exactly who the administrator is for which group. And it is very good that now one party will have to answer why the other party still wants this law, these amendments, which would be correct and justified, “saw off”. There is absolutely no logic. Come and give the real reasons.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U23	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U24	Ladies and gentlemen of Unity! There is no longer any Unity, but still a Unity Group. Your duality is truly amazing! You led this country for several years. You created this system. Now you want to say that everything is perfectly fine, but there is one small problem about which you are now very loud. I'm sorry, that's not the case. We don't know what's there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten intermediates.) We do not play cards with these insolvency administrators and so on. You know a lot better who buys, who plays cards with, and so on. We, the opposition, appreciate the substance of the draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten: “Are you sure?Oh, no, no, no, “ And from this point of view, you are defending a conflict of interest. That's right. I will not repeat what Ivars Zarins has already said. Forgive me, fellow Members, why are you now purely populistly trying to give up on such the most holy ones? This is the system that you have set up. The problem of insolvency administrators is much wider than this one specific situation. Indeed, thank God for finally starting to operate our law enforcement organs! It should have started a few years ago, everyone knows it! But we, as the opposition, could have done little. You could have, but you didn't do anything. And now you start your next election campaign and call purely populistly to speak about the rule of law and so on. Well, do you really think someone will believe you? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U25	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U26	Hello, colleagues! I do not name here; we also know which two groups of insolvency administrators competed for a commercial bank in Trent. And, as we remember, at the Saeima's previous debate in which this issue was discussed, its "bake" was already not about this rule as a norm, but about the date on which it would be introduced. Now this date is no longer relevant, because the “Treas commercial bank” is administered by Mr. Rasa, who was driven by Mr. Bunk, who, let us say, met Mr. Dalder at the cafe (The Hall laughter). , but I wrote to this Mr. Rasa a specific letter asking if he really believed that there was nothing, let us say, in his relationship with the creditor of the “Treas commercial bank” who actually exists or exists. He told me correctly that indeed the agreement had been concluded, but that this has not been reflected in any legal, legal acts, for example. Okey, if it's for a man to work, and there's no question! I just have the question: why do the same bans exist for prosecutors? Prosecutors may not represent clients in court proceedings, with whom... Let's say, people they've met in some case already. Why can anyone reject a judge who, let us say, has also met with... Is that so? Why a lawyer can be rejected, but why administrators, which are more than judges... Why do they have such a rule... Is that so? It's something abnormal! It seems to me that, at the moment, we have mixed principles and not talking about dates anymore, but talking about principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U27	The name of the Member Intt Dalder, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U28	Dear colleagues, Yeah, okay... People know what I've met and what I'm familiar with. Unfortunately, it is absolutely a lie, I don't know this man with whom, as you tell, I've met somewhere. I don't know that, I haven't heard! ( Milestones.) No, I've never seen Mr. Bunk in my life, I don't know, I don't know. ( Milestones.) So I'm sorry! I don't know. The question is, of course, that its negotiations... I mean, I've met not only with him, but also with... If that's what it's about... with many other insolvency administrators and at different locations. So... But the cards are... cards and much more I haven't played together... That's what I have to say, I have to grow up there. But when it comes to this provision, it must be said that, in any event, the court and the FCMC are examining the issue of the conflict of interest, say, the person they mean either the liquidator or the administrator... That's why I thought... which is the main reason that, throughout this process, we are extremely narrowing the circle from which we will then be able to choose this administrator. And if there are some people left, then, of course, stakeholders are very comfortable and it is much easier to try to get through the people he needs in this process. I am in favour of having as wide a scope as possible, so that the Financial and Capital Markets Commission also has the opportunity to offer a much wider range of options. That's all in this case. And some other interests probably... well, each of us can think about how we want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U29	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U30	Dear colleagues, We are coming back to the same discussion that was here when the draft law was adopted. And again we try to convince each other: well, there's one or the other group... In my opinion, in this situation, in which there is a parliament at the moment, which does not trust such a large part of society, the President, whom you applauded during his speech, has repeatedly asked us to arrange this bill so that it does not cause doubt... And in this situation, Parliament's actions when we're like a tank... Well, the vote is here, we will vote and we will show it, because somebody in there, however, needs these amendments as a whole... Imposing, you could probably tell me. I agree with those arguments about this conflict of interest rule, and I said that last time. Yes, it is normal, proportionate and consistent with the legal technique. But when we start to point out the arguments - the groups or... In my opinion, any law must be adopted, not in the hands of the groups, with the particular situation, but in such a way as not to create doubts as to why Parliament has adopted a specific law. The President returned the law with a very precise motivation: this raises doubts. We will not remove these doubts with today's vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U31	I closed the debate. Does the committee rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U32	Yeah. The Commission has assessed all the arguments and will once again mention the main objective: to prevent conflicts of interest or to exclude the possibility of personal interest from representing the interests of creditors. And that is why this provision, which is in Article 132 and in the next Article 132.1, which deals with insolvency administrators, states that it is a conflict of interest if the liquidator has been in a power agreement with the creditor of the credit institution being wound up or legal relationship with the credit institution to be wound up within the last two years prior to the appointment of the liquidator. The representative of the President's Chancellery Kristīne Jaunzeme also acknowledged the validity of these norms in general. The specific norm was recognised as a norm that helps to prevent conflicts of interest, as well as the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption. And also the sworn lawyer invited to the committee was a lecturer at the University of Latvia on issues of legal ethics and on issues of ethics of lawyers indicated that this norm is correct. The letter from the President stated that it was the period during which that provision was adopted that that provision was the actual circumstances in which that provision was likely to affect the decision. Since these factual circumstances were no longer relevant when reviewing the law in re-reading, it was recognised that this norm is justified in itself (as has just been said) and proportionate. And since there are no longer the actual circumstances in which this provision could influence decision making, the Commission tended not to support Mr Inta Dalder's proposals - neither this nor the next one. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you not to support Mr Dalder's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Dalder's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 43, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U34	2. - the proposal made by Member Dalder, similar to the previous one, relates only to the insolvency administrator and not to the liquidator.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U35	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U36	Colleagues! This proposal is similar to the previous one, only with the nuance that administrators are public officials and are therefore subject to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials. In our commission, both the Legal Office and the President of Latvia lawyers, as well as many other legal authorities involved, said that this scope is, however, too wide and even limited, that if someone in your office has opened an account, let us say in the interest of a person in a bank, it automatically disqualifies you from this process. Well, I think we're really going somewhere too far... So this was also the argument... The President also drew attention to this issue, and the lawyers also shared their views - there really is a legal dispute here. I think we should abstain. As for the background, the fact that currently the authors of this law are located, so to speak, in places that are separated from society... I think we should all think about whether we really need to support these rules, even if they look right in law. But, in any case, I would remind you once again that the legal authorities shared their views and that this scope is certainly too wide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U37	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U38	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We saw here from the troupe that Mr Debtor, when he reported on the Commission's decision on Mr Dalder's proposal, referred to what the President's advisor said in the Commission. The debtor said that Mrs Jaunzeme had said that this proposal was proportionate and consistent with other legal provisions. The fact that Mr. Debtor has argued in favour of these legal norms, with a very regulatory and detailed approach to common idealistic considerations, we have already heard before, but I want to read to you a little quote from the President's adviser's record, which she made on Twitter after this committee meeting. Ms. Jaunzemes writes: “It’s a strange feeling when the Saeima has to judge for deprived of the possibility of prejudicing the court with amendments to the law and influencing the insolvency proceedings of “Trast commercial banks”!” So obviously Mr. Debtor selectively quoted what Mrs. Jaunzeme had said, and this strange feeling that the President's adviser had to justify something because the possibility of influencing the insolvency process of the “Trast commercial bank” was being deprived of, Mr. Debtor did not mention. Mr President, in view of what you have mentioned publicly - with whom you have consulted on these amendments - I think that, if you are already such a strict guardian of the regulation of conflict of interest, you should retract yourself from the debate on this draft law and also from the obligation to refer to this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U39	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U40	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported. And if we're talking about, let's say, two groups, then think about whether it's a reservation for you that - do what you want, anyway, you're going to serve some tricks with it. Now I also hear a lot about two groups. Before that, I had a feeling... I'm talking to a lot of lawyers, uninvolved lawyers. Well, obviously, there is one group, and man said: “You just don’t come to me, but there’s a situation like that, because everyone is afraid and loved for peace, yes and yes... !” I call on you, however, to take this context into account, as well as the fact that the President of Latvia has passed this law on to re-reading, and to support Mr Dalder's proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U41	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U42	Dear colleagues, Well, it is pleasant that the proposers are not talking only about the interests of different groupings and so on, but they are talking about the substance of the matter. Mr Dalder recommended extending the range of possible applicants. That is very right, Mr Dalder, but the question is: should it really be for applicants who might have a conflict of interest to be included in this circle? I would be very interested in how you justify this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U43	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U44	As I have already mentioned, work on these conflict of interest rules, which have been incorporated into paragraphs 132 and 132.1, was evaluated by the President of Latvia at the meeting of the commission. Of course, there was a question of the rules being debated, but, as I mentioned earlier on behalf of the Commission, these rules were discussed without these facts causing the greatest concern. That is why this provision is general and is recognised as being correct and proportionate. That is why this proposal from Mr Dalder was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Dalder's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 27, for - 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U46	3. - Member Dalder's proposal. Applicable to the time of entry into force of the law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U47	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U48	Dear colleagues, You have already spoken a great deal today and heard about the circumstances in which these amendments to the Credit Institutions' law have arisen in general. And in this regulation... They are closely linked to the liquidation process of ‘Trast commercial bank’. It has to be said that we have already voted here before, at second reading, rules that are rather controversial, perhaps even more controversial than those that we discussed before. In other words, it is about how lists of creditors are drawn up, how their claims are prioritised and how they are then costed. I will briefly mention just one example. A rule has been put forward here that, if the liquidator has drawn up a list of priority items and how the remuneration is paid, the administrator who comes after him may in fact no longer amend that list. That means... very simply, if the former liquidator, who is currently present, as I said, in another place, then his list must actually be fulfilled for the next one that comes to his place. Very nice: by means of law, we vote that nothing can be changed afterwards. Thus, in principle, there is no longer any interest in being an administrator, because everything has already been arranged in advance. With my proposal, I would simply ask you to postpone the time for the entry into force of this law... the manner in which it enters into force. We will certainly put forward proposals for a draft law in order to amend these rules, because if we support this law as a whole today and the President announces it, we will certainly amend these rules, because in any case, we see that the interest could be quite high in the future, and such problems could recur. Yes, of course, this proposal also sounds logical, one that increases efficiency, so that creditors do not have to apply again for remuneration. But we can see that it is possible to abuse these standards. Therefore, I think that we will incorporate and propose a provision that the court has the right to revoke previously drawn up lists of creditors if there are indeed any violations of the law, or whether there is a reasonable suspicion that they have been drawn up unlawfully. I call for this proposal to be supported. Indeed, it only moves the law into half a year and allows credit institutions already in insolvency and liquidation... These amendments to the law would not affect these procedures. That is what I am calling for to support in my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U49	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U50	Yeah. This provision, which has been declared to be fair and correct by the FCTC and which has been incorporated into the law, is considered to be fair and correct. It will in any case only enter into force when any new bank winding-up proceedings begin. Since, if insolvency proceedings have already been opened, this provision does not come into force. This has already been set out in these amendments to the law. Since Mr Dalder's provision will in any case not apply to existing proceedings. And more. If such a norm on postponing the entry into force of the law enters into force by 1 January of the following year, the norm relating to the provision of information to credit institutions, the State Revenue Service and which must be performed by 31 August of this year, because we amended this law and the deadline separately on 1 July, it would not enter into force either. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you not to support Mr Dalder's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Dalder's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 41, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U52	And 4, closing, - the proposal of the commission responsible for the time when the law enters into force: "The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its promulgation." Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U54	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the adoption of the law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members Vucāns, Barča, Brigmanis, Āboltina and Gaidis Berzins ask for changes to the agenda and to move items 20 and 21 of the agenda after item 17. Are Members opposed to such changes on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U56	Dear colleagues, No proposal has been received for the third reading of the draft law Amending the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U58	Neither has any proposal been received for the third reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries; therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ilze Viņķelė.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U60	Good morning, colleagues! Amendments to the Law on Education provide for simplification and relief from bureaucratic procedures for the acquisition of the professional quality of teachers, namely by laying down three levels instead of the previous five, by delegating to the Cabinet the right to define the areas where quality assessment is to be organised; to allow and delegate to educational institutions to develop quality criteria according to which the professional activities of teachers are to be evaluated. The draft law also provides that in future the head of the institution will be fully responsible for organising the evaluation committee for these quality criteria. Similarly, the role of the head of the institution will in future include determining the amount of the premium for the quality assessment. The draft law also provides that quality assessment is not organised by 31 August of this year, because the Cabinet of Ministers, in turn, has to adopt regulations which will lay down the procedure for establishing these new quality criteria. And it is precisely that, at the moment, we are in a situation where no quality degrees are awarded that justifies a Commission's request for the urgent nature of a draft law. So I asked you first of all for the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U61	Thank you. So Members do not want to debate the urgency of the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 12, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U62	I ask for support for the first-reading version of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U63	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U64	Hello, honorable Bureau! Hello, dear colleagues! I really wanted to talk about the fact that urgency is not needed on this issue, because I believe that the arguments and opinions that the Commission has heard from the Legal Bureau... This draft law is once again unprepared - completely unprepared! It had a lot of reservations. The issue of this urgency and the actual underdevelopment of the Ministry of Education and Science is one. This quality law ended on January 1, 2017. Today is July 21st. So within six months, the officials of the Ministry of Education and Science are unable to prepare a normal law so that the quality of teachers can be determined! The fact that you're manipulating now will be five degrees or three... I am concerned that I have a question in the Commission: are there criteria, or somewhere you can get acquainted with these criteria, which have already been developed... Because once again, the Cabinet of Ministers will do something as a matter of urgency before August 1... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I really want to ask the Prime Minister to listen at last to these words. What are you going to do in quality indicators over the course of these days so that you can pay for a good job in vocational education? When will this madness come to an end?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Commission was of the opinion that these laws, which now determine five levels, would be in force until the normal law was finally adopted, and then we change these criteria and then change these conditions. Why do we always have urgent questions about education?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We will immediately adopt the law, as a matter of urgency, that children will have to learn from the age of six, although everyone claims that they should not do so. We've already done this three times... As a matter of urgency, we will immediately accept that some educational institutions and creative homes will be abolished because there will be no funding. Question: "What will the educators who work there do in those creative homes?" Why do we always, as a matter of urgency, adopt a draft law which, in general, many coalition Members in the Commission simply do not understand and on which officials are misleading? To my argument that the convention was also accepted in professional education completely crazy, it does not work normally, Evija Papule, a ministry responsible employee, deceives the present Members, in a beautiful conversation. I demand that she apologizes to me for... My objection was professionally correct! And why do the coalition Members just raise their hands and go through this law now as a matter of urgency, and the content also wants to be determined? According to what criteria will the head of the institution, who will now be approved by law, award quality? There are no criteria! In until August 1, these criteria will be developed in the Cabinet of Ministers. Should we not at last start thinking about the fact that the criteria are developed by professors, doctors in higher education institutions and not by the Cabinet of Ministers? The Cabinet of Ministers should only approve these criteria, which are professionally developed and scientifically sound. Now let's end up playing here with such populism and demagogy! If Unity cannot force his minister to sort out the ministry and introduce a normal system and restores normal functioning to universities, Mrs Straujuma, yes, I think this minister simply needs to be replaced. Let us now conclude with poor quality laws! I am counting on the Commission not to speak foolishness from the Legal Bureau, who works here and receives the national salary. And why the coalition Members always... Is that so? Because we need to. And vote for it. I am strongly opposed to this style of action. Finally, we should really review our law governing the education system for children from one and a half years of age. As is now fixed on the paper, it is pre-school training from the age of one and a half years. No theory, no law, nothing is in order, no environment is in order, but we already do... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah... We cannot agree on what age should begin to learn and what personality will end in high school. Let's not talk about university. I do not know any other country where there are so many universities for such a small population as a whole. ( Interface: ‘ Private universities! ’) ) And the State cannot solve it because it appears that there are no arguments or any criteria. The Cabinet of Ministers must approve scientifically sound criteria, not develop something itself. Prime Minister Kučinska! I call for this rule to be blocked. There is nothing to do with tax reform. None! We have a law, it's over on January 1. The question is one: how can you do nothing for half a year and now, suddenly, adopt a very poor quality document?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U65	Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U66	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Mr Platoper has already said a great deal from what I wanted to say, but I have some remarks. And one of them is: well, this working style of the Ministry of Education and Science... This is already the second summer when, as a matter of urgency, some amendments to various education laws are adopted. For this time, as I know, the planned optimisation of the school network is on the agenda. Well, and you have to make sure you don't get that... As we know, teachers are usually on vacation in summer, no one works at that time. Don't let it be that the next summer, when teachers all go on vacation, then, in summer, 40 secondary schools are removed as a matter of urgency! Teachers come from vacation, and they no longer have a place to work. Yeah. It is probably such a working style that all the issues are to be dealt with as a matter of urgency in the summer, which is not the right one; it should be done while there is a school year, so that everyone knows where they are going next year. And the other thing. I read here that this project does not have an impact on the public budget. You know, I had a math teacher who said: “Well, two plus two are four. Three plus one is also four.’ The same crayons in the same bitch, yeah. Well, what's changing there? In principle, we shift something: the fifth category - to the third, the fourth - to the second... Yeah. No one gets anything financially. Someone may get a little bit of something from a teacher who doesn’t get a little bit of something. But in principle, it's just mixing the air: we're creaking money from one pocket to another, but in reality nothing changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U67	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U68	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U69	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U70	24 July at 13.00 is the deadline for submitting proposals. And the discussion is next sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U71	At the next extraordinary session of the Saeima?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U73	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals will be 1 p.m. on 24 July this year, and consideration will be given at the next extraordinary session of the Saeima. Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U74	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission saw amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law at first reading, and I would remind you why they are necessary. Thus, the draft law is necessary due to the adoption by the Saeima on 22 June 2017 and the announcement by the President of Latvia on 5 July of the law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service””, thus the financial police and the customs police are merged into one investigative institution – the tax and customs police, which has the status of a customs authority as an investigative authority. Further, in order to provide the Director-General of the SRS with direct information on corruption risks, the Internal Security Authority has been established. In order to allow the SRS Internal Security Authority to carry out further operational activities and investigations in criminal matters established at the disposal of SRS officials and staff and related to the performance of their duties, it is necessary to establish the status and institutional jurisdiction of the investigating authority. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the articles of the Criminal Procedure Law, i.e. in Article 386, replace the words “Financial Police” with the words “Internal Security Part of the State Revenue Service” and in point 7 the words “customs authorities” with the words “Tax and Customs Police, which in the cases provided for by regulatory enactments act as a customs authority”, as well as amend Article 387. The Commission discussed, examined and supported these amendments. I also ask my honourable colleagues to support these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U75	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U76	Dear colleagues, It is true that the majority of the Commission supported these proposals. But I would very much like you to be clear about what you are going to vote on and what the objective of the amendments in question is, the real aim. There are two important issues that we have put in one basket. One is the issue of combining customs and tax police. Good luck! Indeed, it may help to make more efficient use of resources. It has been said on several occasions that if these police forces are combined, there will be better results. We have no objections; we support this proposal. But this proposal is accompanied by a proposal to create another interesting structure and, in principle, the Saeima has already set up it. The SRS will work with the Internal Security Authority. What is it? It is an internal body that will control staff looking for irregularities. Today we are talking about whether such a body will be allowed or whether it will be able to investigate. Those who are far from criminal proceedings, such as Mr. Sergeant, will then definitely tell us and inform us about something. Maybe he'll be able to understand this nuance better by voting... I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Office for Internal Security is in fact conceived as such an office for combating corruption of the pocket. Thus, the ‘ pocket KNAB’. What is the purpose? The real objective is very simple: to reduce external control and to transfer control over SRS staff to internal bodies that are subject to the Director-General of SRS. After the Commission meeting, and also during the Commission meeting, I spoke to Mrs Cīrule. I have no reason to believe that something wrong can happen under her direction. But we are responsible for setting up the structure. And colleagues believe that internal control is better than external control - it is wrong. I think there should be no great wisdom to realize that the thief can catch someone who is not in the same office as the thief or does not walk along the same corridors. Unfortunately, during the committee meeting, I heard the argument: “Well, we will be good, we will be able to work because we are there... We work side by side, live side by side, know each other.” You really think that corruption can be effectively combated if the one who commits the violation and the one who fights it is friends or acquaintances? Colleagues! This proposal, on which we will vote, is an incentive for corruption. You really want to vote for corruption? Well, if you have such confidence, if you want to make it easier for these thieves to live, vote! I call for this provision not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U77	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U78	Dear colleagues, As always, I have a political story about these amendments to the law. I think that nobody in this Chamber is calling into question the legal competence of my colleague Andrejs Judine; he has told us quite precisely about these possible problems that may arise from the adoption of this draft law. But this bill is quite similar to the amendments to the Credit Institutions' law that we adopted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “That’s it!” ) Quite the same is true here, because here is trying to accept and calculate politically now so: the Ministry of the Interior has Unity, the Ministry of Finance has the green and the farmers, the Prime Minister of the green and the farmers are supervised by KNAB. If we now return this institution, yet logically, systemically, and do not create another unnecessary institution, we will not create the problems that the State Police has already had when the Office of Internal Security was placed under the direct authority of the State Police... But no, so the Minister for Finance doesn't want to... These are the political arguments that can be heard behind us. To understand why I can talk about a political agreement this time quite safely, with confidence and with evidence, I have such an interesting story. At the beginning of the week, I turned on LNT in the morning, and I hear that the head of the SRS is asking Cīrule: “And when will it finally be the merger of police?” She is, of course, also honest with the journalist: "It's all right with one law, but the Criminal Procedure Act still needs to be amended. The law of the criminal procedure will be amended by the Saeima on Thursday.’ Well, of course, I am not such a very harsh Member of the Legal Commission, I call my colleague Judin and ask: " Andrej, have we already taken that decision? Do we have any decision that there will be this sitting?’ No, no one has such a decision, but in turn the SRS manager knows that there is already an agreement and that there will be such a decision. So it's just the same story as the law on credit institutions. Someone's making a deal somewhere, then coming here, and then there's one another in the coward. Once again, we do not accept this law simply systemically. Legal office supports, legally here can be such a construction. But there are these fears that we are adopting a law rather than when there will be a different parliament and when perhaps other heads of the SRS or other heads of the Interior Security Bureau of the Ministry of the Interior will work, but that we are adopting a law for the current situation - fear of who will gain some political influence. Consequently, we cannot support such a politically motivated proposal. Once again, from this troupe, I would like to confirm that the Unity is in favour of the unification of the police, but we cannot accept the way in which another institution with operational functions is created, and that we simply split this system and make this decision politically. Consequently, the Unity will abstain from this vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U79	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U80	Dear colleagues, It seems to me that often, from this troupe, people are trying to say half-truth and are trying to tell people what it seems like so that others - perhaps not intentionally - would still have the impression that they need to vote in this way. Imagine some kind of political conspiracy... And I allow the idea that those parties that have a long history in Latvia are used to political conspiracy or negotiations. In this case, I would like to say that the political agreement here was at the time when the Saeima voted for certain amendments to the Law on State Revenue Service. At the time it was decided to create these institutions, and in the Criminal Procedure Law this amendment should be made only so that this system can be arranged in the procedural norm as well. Here I do not really want to agree with my colleague, Mr Judine, because the internal security administration of the SRS cannot be called the pocket KNAB. Bullshit! At the moment, the financial police also include an Internal Security Unit, which is responsible for investigating these same crimes. First. Secondly. A large service, such as the State Revenue Service, may have an internal security service that investigates and checks corruption crimes in the activities of officials. By the way, in Japan, where there is a rather high level of anti-corruption, each major institution has an internal KNAB that fights more minor corruption offences. And in this case, by providing in the Criminal Procedure Law that this Internal Security Authority exists, it does not mean that KNAB is abolished or that the competence of KNAB with respect to officials is excluded from the law. In particular, there are two services: one more is working on the ground and knows what is happening in the kitchen, and there is, of course, also external control. There is therefore not only internal but also external control from the KNAB. Another thing is that KNAB may not be over. And I have to say here: those people who came to this issue today from the troupe on preventing corruption actually represent the group whose Members are running two large... one commission and one sub-committee, which has been responsible for fighting for improvement of anti-corruption measures for years. So, please, why has this anti-corruption fight been wrong so far?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, I call on colleagues to comply with the norms of the Criminal Procedure Law so that they comply with the amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” already adopted by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U81	Name to Member Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U82	It is true that we currently have such an internal structure within the financial police. But if you remember, half a year ago or less, we had been presented with a reform: we wanted to improve the situation. If we look at the law now, we see that its structure lies within the financial police. What is the nature of our reform? We now place it under the authority of the Head of the SRS in the Internal Security Board. Thus, in principle, it is the ‘ pocket KNAB’. And, of course, it is true that something will also be done by the institution that we call the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption. But if there are two institutions working with one client, the result can be very, very unsuccessful, because the Internal Security Authority will always have the opportunity to say: “We will manage ourselves: we see everything, we work! Because the Criminal Procedure Act says that we have the right to do so. We don’t need KNAB help!” Furthermore, I would also ask you to note that not all people working in the SRS are officials. So some are not customers. I wonder about the logic behind this proposal. We are told that this is a major reform, because we will not have two policemen - the financial police and the tax police - but one, so the work will be effective. When we talk about the fact that the fight against corruption should also be entrusted to one institution, we are told: "No! We want several small institutions!” In my opinion, the Internal Security Authority can and will be established. Let's do it! To help detect internal irregularities! The problem is elsewhere. This body will be given the opportunity to conduct investigations and operational activities. And basically KNAB's ability to detect irregularities will be less. I understand that the decision has already been made, because that was the aim. It's not an accident! It was proposed to do this together with the adoption of the budget - quickly. I very much hope that, despite all these efforts and attempts to achieve some kind of vague result, there will still be an opportunity to fight crime, corruption and the SRS as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U83	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U84	Colleagues! I am listening to this debate, and I have questions from our colleagues in the Unity. When we talked about amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, you had one position, now you are completely opposite. You're starting to talk about it here: if there's a connection, it can lead to corruption risks... On the other hand, when we were talking about the Credit Institutions' Law (Interdependence.) amendments, everything was fine there. Tell me, please, what amount does your principles change? What amount do you no longer worry about corruption? That is my question. And, in principle, it is really a very important question for us too - to understand here today whether, through such a mechanism, we will ensure that we have this necessary order in terms of limiting corruption or not. Why? Because today we are going to look at tax reform immediately, one of the main compensatory mechanisms is the fight against the shadow economy. It is about how honest and effective the SRS is. With what you said here from this platform today, you expressed a clear distrust for the management of the SRS. You said that responsibility for how effective and how honest the SRS work should not be transferred to the SRS Director General. Those were your words! You said that you should not be under her supervision. Then I have a question: do you trust the Director-General of the SRS or not? You have placed him in this post ( Dep. I. Dalder: “Do not mix onions with bananas together!” ), then answer for it! Some systemic approach please save! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “We are building the system!” ) Otherwise, it really begins to look more like such a political circus. What are you doing here? With such a failed pre-election campaign! Maybe you need to change your PR specialist. That is the impression of listening to this discussion.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U85	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U86	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mr. Zarins' gestures here in the platform apparently showed despair. And when a person is desperate, he often brought his motivation into other people. Obviously, Mr Zarins has something to do with which he is prepared to radically change his mind. Obviously! This despair was a sign of this. Colleagues! Mr Judine spoke of a systemic problem. If there will be a good Chief SRS, then this service will probably work well, but if there will be a situation where the Chief SRS will have selfish intentions, then it will not work with sufficient efficiency and will not control the concrete possible violations of SRS employees. Mr Judine talked about systemic solutions, not concrete personal ones, as Mr Zarins wanted to trivialize here.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U87	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U88	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, The representatives of the Unity Group, who are active here, to put it simply in the lies. Returning to the issue of a systemic approach, let us remember that a few years ago we set up an Internal Security Office (under the authority of the Minister for the Interior). At the time, one of my proposals was that this office supervises all the bodies, including KNAB, the financial police, customs and so on. The Unity Group did not support this proposal at that time for any reason. You are talking about a systemic approach. Mr Judine, you are a lawyer with a lot of experience, but so far you do not understand what each of the services is dealing with. What are the functions and tasks of the KNAB and which the Office for Internal Security is dealing with. And where is the line that separates these functions, so that they don't overlap and that one service doesn't interfere with the other. And the weirdest. As a lawyer, you are discussing amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, although the basic law on which these amendments must be made has long been adopted. I call for support for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act at first reading. I am not satisfied with the law that I had previously passed. But as the Saeima has supported it, we will make technical changes in fact.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U89	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U90	As a Member from SASKA, I am accustomed to receiving personal insulting comments from this troupe at a time when I ask unpleasant questions that cannot be answered by nature. And then begins all this demagogy. I wonder that the Kremlin and all the other places were not yet called here, because it's the moment you show that you're in fact desperate when you don't know what to do, and you're sitting in your room, and you don't know where the way out of it is. And then you come and speak all these fools. If you wanted to account for this amount, where it really is then, you could come and say it, because in this case you are the ones who change principles. In this case, you are the ones who are desperate and do not know what to do. Because we have very consistent action, contrary to what you are doing. We know what we're doing. We are responsible for our words and we also know how these things go. You are now responsible for what you have worked with this country, because all these years you were the ones who were responsible for the situation in which we have the fight against corruption and prevention. And where we are at the moment is this regrettable situation. I very much hope that something will change. That this instrument that is now being given to the SRS... that SRS will be able to use it correctly. If the SRS is not able to use it, then it is likely that this coalition will end in a very sad way. Perhaps you can really speed it up. The whole country will benefit from it, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U91	Debate... Not yet closed. Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U92	I'm not a lawyer, but I think one thing. How can people test themselves? For example, Mr. Adamson, if you have stomach pain, can you investigate yourself with a cobra? You know what Cobra means? If a person has, for example, some kind of formation somewhere, will he turn himself or will he go to a specialist? And that's the same thing here. If the SRS managers themselves control themselves, I do not know how they can do it, in what way. In that case, we do not need any inspections, no inspection mechanisms. Let everyone examine themselves and think about themselves, and in the country everything is fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U93	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U94	Yes, there was a heated discussion in both the Legal Commission and here in Saeima's meeting room. But we have given the State Revenue Service our own tasks, then let them do them as well. The Commission has voted - to support amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. So I ask you, honourable colleagues, also to support the amendments at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U95	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 1, for - 17. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U96	Thank you. Please submit your proposals for second reading by 26 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U97	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is July 26, this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Railways, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U98	Hello, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! Minister for Finance! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy reviewed the amendment to the Railway Law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and this draft law specifically provides that the payment of interest or contractual penalties will not be applied to the rail passenger services provided on the basis of a contract for public transport services. In a more understandable language, this means that “Passenger train” will be able to pay no penalty for not paying the railway infrastructure fee in due time. When examining this issue in the Commission, the Bureau of Law pointed to several risks, including – contradictions with the principle of private autonomy. This means that, let us say, one market operator has different conditions than the other and that outside the Contracting Parties there is a third party who determines who pays the fine, who does not. In addition, the draft law was submitted without a transitional framework. This means that it will also be possible to write off different penalties with retroactive dates and so on. After long and extensive discussions, the Commission decided not to support this draft law, and on behalf of the Commission I also call on colleagues not to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U99	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U100	Five minutes left, they have to be filled in somehow. Colleagues! I have also been regulating the railway sector for many years. The arguments that you have heard today are, indeed, justified. An absolutely absurd solution is proposed. So, in a situation where we have a railway infrastructure and there are many different users of this infrastructure, it is proposed to lay down, by law, completely different conditions for one user of the infrastructure, and conditions that are the opposite... establish by law conditions which will be contrary to the contractual conditions which he will have agreed with the user of the infrastructure. This means that in this case no legal certainty at all will work in relations between these two rightholders. And the passenger train will be able to do anything and he will not have to pay for it. How did this absurd norm come about? This absurd rule has arisen in an attempt to correct the absurd situation that has arisen. In particular, the ‘passenger train’ is normally given. ‘ Passenger train’ is not able to pay everything... More specifically, if a ‘passenger train’ were to include everything in the ticket price, the price of this ticket would be disproportionate. And that is why the State has undertaken to cover a certain part of these costs. Although the State has undertaken to do so, the State does not do so, and then this hole emerges, as the ‘passenger train’ cannot be settled for this infrastructure. And it would not be right to deal with this situation with such amendments to the law. They are completely absurd and distorting the situation. Therefore, the Commission is of the opinion that such a draft law should not be passed on. I call for support for the opinion expressed by the Commission and for this bill to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U101	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the committee rapporteur want to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U102	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, as I said, I ask you to reject this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U103	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law amending the Railway Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 2, against - 68, refraining from - 5. Draft law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U105	Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U106	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Ringolds Balodis, Astrids Harjus, Aleksandrs Jakilovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Jānis Kžads, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Lizane, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Sergej Mirskis, Vladimir Nikonovs and Jūlija Stepanenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U107	Thank you. Interruption until 12 noon. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U108	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We will continue the extraordinary session. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U109	Hello, dear colleagues! So these amendments to the Forest Law provide for the facilitations of the rules for felling trees in military facilities, in particular, in landfills. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Second. It is planned that military facilities will also be able to reforest the area without the purpose of building it, which is very important for the disposal of shooting zones from trees. When examining this draft law, it became clear that these amendments to the Forest Law should be adopted as soon as possible, because there have been certain problems in the Adaži landfill with the provision of shooting training for the new contingent who arrived there, as well as problems with the placement of this additional contingent. Consequently, the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law be examined as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U110	Thank you. Hence the urgency of the vote. Please call me! Do you want to debate urgency? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Yes!” ) Thank you. So we are starting a debate. I call on you to apply for a debate in good time. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U111	Hello, fellow Members, again! So, 'no' urgency, yes. What is it? Indeed, amendments to the law are necessary, they are necessary, because the Forest Law talks about how to manage the forest for purposes completely different from those required by the Ministry of Defence. There is a real need for another regulation. However, the way in which the Ministry of Defence now proposes to resolve it (it simply calls for: “Let us make a hole in the law that we do not!” , instead of offering any other regulation), that is the wrong way to go. In principle, what is happening at the moment... The Ministry of Defence behaved in the same way as the police did once on the road when there was an intense traffic: in order to avoid complying with traffic rules, they simply turned on the lighthouse and drove, as if it were a safety issue, we need to resolve everything quickly! Now they came and said, “We need to solve everything quickly!” All right! We are ready to resolve everything quickly. There is, in principle, no problem: in view of our agenda, we can resolve all these issues within a week. We have the next sitting next Thursday, so in a week's time, this can be resolved calmly. However, there is now an urgent need for us to adopt these amendments within an hour! Why am I against this urgency? Because I was embarrassed by the way in which this committee meeting took place. The Ministry of Defence came to us and told us that it was necessary: “In fact, there is only a couple of dropwoods that need to be cut - the pine trees that have grown in the mud - because we don’t see where those shots fall there.” But if you get acquainted with the documents attached to these materials, then you would see that this is actually something quite different: the Ministry of Defence will be “added” to more than six thousand hectares of forest - a regular pine forest. And it is about these amendments, which are adopted as a matter of urgency... That's very good, we're not talking about it! This is about what these hectares will do further. How will they be managed so that it is in accordance not only with certain limited interests, but also with the interests of society? If we make this hole in the law, then in principle everything can be done with it. But we also have an important public interest. We understand that this landfill is necessary for the sake of security, in order to train for war. But we need to understand that there is a peaceful life around us, and it would be important, however, to make regulation so that this link between the landfill and the rest of the area is sufficiently harmonious and in the public interest. Now there will be no such regulation, because the Ministry of Defence simply says: “Take away, as a matter of urgency, any regulation regarding us in the Forest Law, but there will be no other regulation instead!” That is why my proposal, colleagues, is not to do this on an urgent basis, because I fear that there will be nothing there on an urgent basis, because we have already had serious discussions on this at first reading in the Commission. I am afraid that it will be slower to try to do this more quickly. That is why my proposal is to do it, not as a matter of urgency, but as a normal one. Today, we would examine and, if anything else is needed, we would do the second and third readings; then, after a week, we would approve it, and then there would be a thoughtful solution that would suit both the Ministry of Defence and the needs of society and prevent all possible risks of corruption and theft of the state, as can be the case for these artificial thousands of hectares of forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U112	Thank you. The Member has therefore spoken against the urgency. No one has applied to speak for. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U113	Please confirm at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U114	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Interface: “You go to the record! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U115	Colleagues! Undoubtedly, this law is important, these amendments to the law are important, because they are necessary for the security of our country, but I ask you to understand that if we support it today at first reading as a matter of urgency, we should approach second reading with great responsibility. In particular, for the second reading, we must prepare ourselves - and the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is ready to do so! - appropriate amendments, so that what is now being planned does not really lead to significant risks, in today's language, for theft of the state, and yet meets not only the requirements of the Ministry of Defence, but also the public interest, the interests of the people living in that area. Because in the version in which this draft law is currently being proposed, anything can be done with the forest - cut everything out, without thinking about any buffer zones, protection zones and so on. Right next to the Rail Baltica railway. Likely, it would be important that we approach thoughtfully and not simply rely on our urgent acceptance of something and that everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U116	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U117	Mr. Zarins! Don't turn from the parliamentary tribunal, please, at least to conspiracy theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U118	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U119	Dear colleagues, Undoubtedly, this law is necessary and urgent, we cannot wait until we accept it in all the readings, because this situation really needs to be resolved. But one thing I want to remind you about is that we have also recently decided on amendments to the Construction Law, on various exceptions to the National Armed Forces and the landfills. This is the second law. I call on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Defence to reflect and perhaps return to the norms of the law, which regulates landfills in general. Because there are other problems. For example, the situation will arise with noise limits, with natural foundations, protected natural areas, and with deep earth issues. We will address these issues all the time urgently, as in the fire-fighting regime. I call, of course, on this draft law to support and move forward as a matter of urgency, and to think about and perhaps prepare a universal regulation so that the Ministry of Defence and the armed forces can carry out their functions qualitatively and not wait for the amendments to the law at every particular point in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U120	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U121	This was a very rational proposal. Like what we are discussing here at the moment. It would be right that instead of trying to save something in an emergency, when the Ministry of Defence has waited until the last and then suddenly comes and says: “We urgently need it. This is necessary for national security’. Of course, we don't mind anyone and do it in a hurry. And as a result, you can meet all kinds of fans. It would be better, therefore, that, if we have decided to deal with these amendments to the law as a matter of urgency, we are considering them as a matter of urgency, but we are adopting a temporary regulation, a sufficiently long period of time, which really includes all the specific areas of the Ministry of Defence in which it can really act, as is necessary primarily for the security of our country, rather than for any other economic aspects. Then it should really be a thoughtful, systematic decision included in a separate draft law. That's why my call for second reading... It would be very important to provide for these amendments to the law as a transitional provision up to a certain deadline, thus enabling the Ministry of Defence to prepare this draft law and to be motivated to prepare it. Because if we adopt it without these transitional provisions without setting a specific deadline within which it works, then such a draft law will never become. And every time we operate in such an emergency mode to save it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U122	The name of the Member, Inese Boki.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U123	Hello, colleagues. I often agree with Ivar Zarins. He has a lot of proper arguments, but in this case put a deadline, at least for forestry, in the way it is meant, shouldn't be, because it is a whole management complex, this landfill. We know that hasty deadlines create hasty actions, because then we are trying to do something that is perhaps not even in the mind, and therefore I am still calling for the vote as it is. In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we will try to reduce and sort out its things more or less, but let us not set deadlines. The fact that it may then be the way Mr Matīss or Mr. Zarins said that we need some regulation, maybe, is another thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš intermediates.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U124	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U125	Yes, honourable colleagues. First of all, the thing is that while we wait until the Ministry of Defence develops some comprehensive, I do not know, landfill law or military object law, while Adam's largest rifle will not be in use. And if we look at the maneuverings that happen once in a while, then the technique that is now in there, as you say, must shoot... There has not been any such thing so far. And so a new shooting area is needed very quickly. That's one. Second. When speaking about this comprehensive law as such, it should be remembered that the Ministry of Defence had already prepared all of this, but thanks to the very tempestuous reservations of the Ministry of Justice, such an idea was slaughtered at its very roots. So obviously it is now necessary to look at this situation - whether the Ministry of Justice has changed its opinion or not. Because the recent attempt by the Ministry of Defence to do so has resulted in an absolute failure. I ask you, given that lawyers from the Ministry of Defence and the Legal Office of the Saeima have already worked very closely all this time while the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy... While waiting for the Saeima sitting, they have already made rather significant amendments to this text, and these amendments are to be tabled immediately and on the ground, and they will obviously also change the substance of these amendments. So please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U127	So July 21, at 13.15.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U128	And the time to consider the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U129	Well, then it happens that the next extraordinary part-session is due to count on the fact that there will be another one today.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U130	Next... ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U131	At the next extraordinary part-session, without taking into account the sitting that I understand has already been announced today.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U132	The next sitting, so on 27 July. Thank you. The deadline for tabling proposals is 21 July at 13.15 a.m. and consideration - at the next extraordinary session of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U133	Highly honored members of the Saeima Presidium! Mr. Prime Minister! Minister! Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, my task today is to call on you to consider amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance and to first define the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U134	Mr. Ivars Zarins has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U135	Colleagues! Now it seems you haven't learned anything from last century. No conclusions have been drawn. You want to climb on the same rabbis again. In particular, you are trying to confirm something as a matter of urgency in relation to taxes. Remember how it happened last time! If the opposition hadn't put its helper shoulder on it, then maybe many of us would not sit here today. At least some of us wouldn't sit down. “ At least not here! Other!’ ) At least not here. Yeah. ( Internouncing call.) So, what happens again? You have decided something, been tortured for six months, finally defeated with one another, came to the Saeima, presented it, and now you want it to be adopted here quickly, without having a long debate, without having to assess it for as long as possible and make proposals. Basically, what's going on? What is now known as theft of the state is happening. It is, in essence, similar to the "Rīņes" negotiations, which are now outrageled by society as a whole. It turns out that somewhere, somewhere, there are people sitting there and talking about something and then making everyone else - the public officials - carry out their orders and their decisions. The same thing is happening right now! So instead of this tax reform-related package, which is really very important and has a very great impact on the good, or maybe not so well, or maybe even in a negative sense... to have a serious debate here and to be the people's elected Presidents who will take this decision... Instead, there are some people who have met somewhere - not in "Rīņene" this time, but in some other place - and have decided that this will lead the matter in this way. People’s servants simply stay here and press the pots as they want. That is what is happening at the moment. Nothing has changed since the “Rīdzene” negotiations! Colleagues! Perhaps the reason is that you are sitting with your back against what is written on the wall of the Seimas Hall of Saeima – “The State of Latvia is a democratic republic” and “The sovereign power of the State of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia”. You forgot this. Colleagues! What's going on?Oh, no, no, no, And in this way, we continue to make decisions important to the whole country, to society, and then we wonder why there is once again a fan - like this tax reform. I call on you to be responsible, to observe the oath that you have made to all of Latvia, to all of society, and to carry out your duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. That is, without voting today on urgency, but to do well with this tax reform, which is obviously a vanccar. I call for the urgency to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U136	Thank you. Thus, the Member has spoken against declaring the draft law urgent. The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 49, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U137	Dear colleagues, The amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance already introduce, first of all, one very important case, on which the government has also agreed with great difficulty, namely that national social security contributions are increased by one percentage point by 0,5 percentage points for each employee (the head of the meeting knocks down with a hammer). a contribution of 0.5 per cent by the employer (i.e. a percentage point overall) and a clear and clear statement that this one percentage point will be allocated to healthcare. Colleagues! I think that we have no secret whatsoever that the health system needs more resources, and at the moment it is not enough. While working on amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs set up a working group and, in preparation for the first reading, we invited representatives from the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Health, and I can already inform you today that the Social and Labour Affairs Commission will prepare coherent and well-disciplined proposals for improving and changing the text of this draft law to the second reading. But today, my fellow Members, I call on you to adopt amendments to the law on State social security at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U138	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U139	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! As the leaders of the people, you must take a decision today on further progress in the tax reform package. I will not overstate it if I claim that this reform is one of the most important work of the 12th Saeima. Bearing in mind the way things progressed in government, I think that it will not be an easy job for the Saeima. With your permission, I will speak in support of this draft law, while also touching on other draft laws as a whole. By launching the tax reform, the government set itself two objectives: reducing social inequalities and promoting economic development. There was also the third challenge: not to reduce the budget and not to threaten the sectors financed by the state budget. From the first day of the reform consultation, there was no shortage of experts who claimed that these objectives were not achievable because they were too controversial. However, we were encouraged by the fact that the objectives of the tax reform were initially supported by all social partners, business organisations and also by the Bank of Latvia. It seemed that we had found a common language and that the new tax system would be acceptable to everyone. The debate lasted and each of the parties concerned began to draw its own red lines and set new and new requirements. Some reform ideas were removed from the context and widely discussed in the media, thus raising public concerns about any changes. The government was bound to seek compromises with both coalition parties and social partners. In the heat of the debate, the issue of the sources of funding for healthcare entered the political agenda very thoroughly, rightly. This was the most critical time for the whole reform process. To paraphrase Rainy, it was a time when a friend was separated from the government. But the work was continued! I am grateful to all government ministers and members of coalition parties who, with real interest, have participated in all the discussions, at times very emotionally defending their personal and political convictions. I guess there were times when we all left the room with the idea that we would hardly ever return to it. But the common sense of politicians as statesmen has always prevailed and we have managed to arrive at a result that is acceptable to all coalition partners. Thank you, too, for those who left the room for discussion and did not return to it, because they were excellent political vigor partners, which strengthened the conviction that tax reform was going in the right direction. Officials of the Ministry of Finance and other ministries who did their work professionally and in good faith, analysed various models and prepared all the documents necessary for tax reform. Some words about the tax reform itself. I will not talk about specific figures, but only about its essential principles. Increasing the minimum wage. A case that has been postponed for too long, because even with the reform's rise in the minimum wage, we are not reaching the level of our Baltic neighbours. This means that this is only the first step, which inevitably needs to be followed up. If this is not done, Latvia, as a Member State of the European Union, may lose its competitiveness. Social inequality is one of the causes of the problems of our society. It is enough to name the emigration of the working population of Latvia and the depopulation of the subsequent entire regions. The second cornerstone of the reform is the introduction of the progressive personal income tax rate, which has been discussed for many years. The rates offered by the reform for the various income groups are a compromise that was acceptable, or at least understandable, also for those entrepreneurs whose income is very high. I would add that my table also had much more radical proposals taken from the old Member States of the European Union. Perhaps the fiscal impact of the proposed progress is less important, but the principle itself is important. Increasing the tax-free minimum, as well as the increased relief for each dependent family member, is another important step in reducing social inequalities. At times, it seems that many ivory towers have been built in Latvia, the top of which has long been seen and understood by those who live at the foot of these towers. We must not build these towers, either because there are no elephants living in Latvia. We are too small a nation and a society to increase inequality in such a demonstrative way. There is, of course, still a whole series of proposals aimed at stimulating entrepreneurship and reducing the share of the shadow economy. An important decision by the government is also the introduction of health contributions directed towards the healthcare system. The tax reform package has now been passed on to your assessment. I believe that members of the Saeima want to build a kind of Latvia in which all its citizens feel belong to the state of Latvia, in which equal opportunities are given to all and in which fair social policies are implemented. Tax reform can be a good step in this direction. I call on Members of the Saeima to support this and the other draft tax reform laws at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U140	Thank the Prime Minister. Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U141	Madam President of the Saeima. Dear Members! Honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister! Before talking about this draft law, I would also like to make a small derogation and tell you about the overall tax reform and how this draft law falls into that context. First of all, let me recall a little more than a year old events. The government of Māra Kučinskis, taking over the staff, saw that the Latvian tax legislation that existed at that time did not work well enough to achieve the goals set by the state. As a result, it was clear from the first hours that this government is not waiting long and careless days, but instead we have been given a mandate and, at the same time, a very serious task - to start a difficult job, to correct the course of the country's social and economic development. For years various opinion polls have shown quite a large spread of pessimism and pessimism virus among Latvian businessmen. For example, the results of the public opinion poll of June 2017 show that more than 86 percent of people believe that the Latvian economy will not develop rapidly enough, and almost 60 percent of citizens believe that significant changes are needed in the current tax system. Our country's economic situation can now be compared to this year's summer in Latvia, when the sun appears to shine, while swimming does not want to, and air temperature is the same as the spring or autumn rather than the middle of July. What do the government do? One of the most effective instruments - not the only one, but one of the most effective instruments - for improving the economic temperature available to the government is tax policy and its adjustment, or reform. When implementing tax reform, we really create a stable basis to meet the objective set in the Latvian National Development Plan of ensuring the country's GDP growth of at least five per cent. At the same time, we will also achieve a reduction in income inequalities. We will increase the revenue of the state budget by bringing it closer to one third of gross domestic product, and the measures foreseen in the tax reform will also reduce the size of the shadow economy and increase the efficiency of the SRS. In addition to the immediate benefits, we will see that part of the work to be done in the health system will also be addressed. As far as the existing tax system is concerned, I would like to point out four negative factors that have affected the circulation of our societies and the economy as a whole. The current tax system increases inequality and the spread of the low wage phenomenon. According to EUROSTAT, in 2015 the Gini ratio was 35.4 percent, which is one of the highest in the European Union, and the tax burden on low wage earners in Latvia is very high - almost 42 percent, which is higher than in Lithuania and Estonia, where it is 39.2 and 38 percent respectively. Business growth is also hampered by the existing tax system with a high tax burden on labour and also by the robust corporate tax collection arrangements, in particular through the advance payments of the UIN. The current tax system is also characterised by its unjust spirit and, if that is the case, by holes that allow active and wealthy schemers to avoid paying taxes in part or even in full, while honest patriots in their country pay after a full programme. The defects of the current tax system are also being used selfishly by the shadow economy workers, defrauding from the country really tens of millions of euros through VAT carousel schemes and other frauds. Of course, one thing is to see the shortcomings of the system, but the other thing is to find ideas and solutions to deal with the problem. What to change directly? What will be the innovations that will work in life and actually improve the situation? Here I must say a great deal of thanks to the wide range of experts and experts who, armed with the resistance of marathonists, have participated in the content of tax reform over more than 12 months with their ideas and opinions. I think that when measured by the size and quality of the discussions, tax reform is one of the most profound works done in Latvian policy in recent years. The fact that we are beginning to discuss and think more correctly is a huge benefit. By thanking my dear colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, I would also like to mention all the important cooperation partners today (part of them are also in this room): the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, trade unions, Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia, OECD, World Bank, Bank of Latvia, and Certus. I also thank the coalition partners, those active Members who came to the working groups, the parliamentary colleagues, without whose ideas and intellectual input the fruit of our joint work would be much more modest. Thank you, colleagues, for the competence, strength and strength of the reform process, successfully exporting the discussion through the American mountains, which, of course, has not yet come to an end. Tax reform is the result of our joint work. And despite discussions, we have managed to maintain the initial focus of the reform, without derogating from the main objectives of reducing inequality, strengthening the competitiveness of Latvian entrepreneurs and providing additional resources for quality public services. Tax reform is a complex package of measures. This implies changes in labour taxation by shifting the tax burden to consumer capital. A new corporate tax regime, measures to combat the shadow economy and social responsibility measures, which is partly addressed by this draft law and its amendments, are also foreseen. In this context, I would like to emphasise a number of positive effects of tax reform. Higher wages, or a reduction in labour taxes, are foreseen. The new tax system provides for a personal income tax rate of 20 per cent for the recipients of the lowest wages (up to 20 thousand euros per year) and a rate of 31.4 per cent for the recipients of high wages (over 55 thousand). There will also be a differentiated non-taxable minimum, gradually reaching €250. The inexpensive minimum for a dependent person will also increase to €250 over three years. An increase in the minimum wage and restructuring of the solidarity tax is foreseen, partly by shifting it into a personal income tax, partly by social contributions as a solidarity payment. There will be higher salaries, and they will increase the quality of life for many people in the territory of Latvia. At the same time, it will be an incentive for employees to request legalization of their income, and thus there will be a reduction in the proportion of envelope wages (this currently represents more than 40 percent of the shadow economy in Latvia). There will also be support for entrepreneurs in balancing wage growth and productivity, which will indeed be a problem over the next few years. As a result of tax reform, a positive change can also be expected for pensioners: there is a plan to increase the non-taxable minimum personal income tax for pensions to EUR 300 per month. Although it will be a little easier to train children and it will be easier to deal with all the daily concerns. The tax reform also contains a number of measures to combat the shadow economy. What's the most important thing here? The principle of reverse value added payment is to be introduced in risk sectors where data show that fraud continues to hit the highest wave - construction, electronics, metal trade. Time accounting system for construction will be introduced. The VAT transaction threshold will be reduced and the registration threshold will also be reduced, making it equivalent to neighbouring countries. This will be a blow to the financial and crime mafia, as it will reduce the opportunities for fraudsters to resort to VAT carousels and thus defraud the country. There will be more money in the budget for teachers, medical practitioners, pensioners, other people under the government. Tax reform - these are also social responsibility measures and fine-tuning of the small business regime. The economic operators and beneficiaries of royalties are expected to introduce minimum social security contributions of at least five per cent, which is also provided for by this draft law. It is planned to limit the proportion of eligible expenditure for economic operators and also to specify the amount of eligible expenditure for authors (which will still be decided by the Cabinet of Ministers). The list of eligible expenditures for personal income tax is limited. In the case of small businesses, it is proposed to clarify the micro-enterprises tax regime by reducing turnover from 100 000 to 40, in order to ensure fair competition, for example, so that competition in the construction sector is not won by micro-enterprises who simply pay lower taxes. There will be a single amount of patent payment and ultimately a series of measures that will improve administration - a single transaction account, a single tax account, and the introduction of electronic invoices will save small businesses accounting costs and time. Overall, in the area of small businesses, much remains to be done by the government - and especially by the Ministry of Economic Affairs - but some important measures are already being implemented in tax reform. Tax reform - it is a business tax scheme that promotes the development of business. The zero-interest income tax is intended for that part of the profits that is not distributed in dividends but is invested in the development of the company, thus improving the company’s equity, making them stronger and more attractive for investors and also for funders. The opt-out of the principle of corporate tax advance is also an extremely important measure, especially for small businesses. The rate increases from 15 to 20 percent, but at the same time there is a refusal of personal income tax, while maintaining support instruments in special economic zones for investment projects and in other individual cases. After all, the most tangible benefits of tax reform will be more money for businesses, investment, incentives for entrepreneurs not to hide profits and true income, incentives to create new jobs, incentives to make social contributions and respect for the principle of tax fairness, payments similar to or at least a step in the direction of different forms of income. After all, it will also be an additional pressure on Latvia's economic growth and the competitiveness of Latvian companies in international markets, as well as on attracting investments. In planning tax reform, the government has also not forgotten the people of our country who care that we all have what to put on the table: farmers. Farmers will continue to benefit from tax exemptions in the case of subsidies and disposals of agricultural land - tax relief, as well as excise tax relief, but in the case of demand for more productivity. For health. Dear colleagues, you are all witnesses that, when discussing the shape of tax reform, there was a stage in which a lot of needles were also broken on how to provide the necessary resources for the health sector. There were different ideas until coalition partners agreed that, alongside the tax reform, a source would be found for health financing, increasing the national social security contributions by one percentage point and sharing this burden in half. That is not all; work will continue, and a separate health sector financing law will be designed to ensure that there is a fair insurance principle and equal pay for all, not just for regular work. The draft law is planned to be drafted by autumn under the direction of the Ministry of Health. So let us also use health money in a much more detailed form during the budget consultation, as the new draft law will be one of the components of the budget package. The logical question is: where to take the money for tax reform in a situation where individual revenue groups are expected to fall temporarily but significantly? Following the year-on-year calls from experts to shift the tax burden from labour to consumption, this has also been respected. Within the framework of compensatory measures, without more growth and its positive effects, without measures to combat the shadow economy, there is, of course, also some form of taxation - an increase in personal income tax, an increase in income from capital (up to 20 per cent), as well as excise duty, following the trends that are taking place in Lithuania and Estonia - in our neighbourhood - so as not to lose competitiveness; an increase in gambling tax and the application of personal income tax to winnings above EUR 3000, as well as a limitation of eligible expenditure. This will increase government revenue, increase fiscal space for new initiatives of national importance. At the same time, I would like to stress that during the process of drawing up the reform, we are scrupulous and have carefully assessed its fiscal impact on the national budget. We have strictly observed budgetary discipline. The reform offer is currently fiscally balanced and does not go beyond the framework set by the structural deficit. At the same time, we have foreseen that we will also be able to afford to build a fiscal reserve, as last year, and also additional funding for new policy initiatives (e.g. road). Who will lose? It is true that there will also be groups of individuals who will suffer losses as a result of the reform. The loss of VAT fraudsters and financial machinators, the loss of tax optimists, the loss of those who believe that they are above national laws, grossly find themselves at the expense of peers or simply opt to pay far less tax than it would be fair. Latvian family and society in general will be the beneficiaries. There's going to be more wages. Income inequality in society will be reduced. There will be stronger companies. Latvia's economic growth will increase. There will also be more money in the state budget. I think that the new, fairer tax system will make its contribution to the consolidation of Latvian society. Tax reform, its positive effects - it is indeed a historic step towards a stronger and more competitive Latvian state. Members! I would like to thank the Saeima very much for the organisation of the smooth work and for the commitment to this important work already this month. Timely completion of tax reform is important, even if it is necessary to make clear to all as soon as possible what changes to tax legislation will be made in 2018. A great deal of clarification is still before us so that the transition from the old to the new tax system takes place smoothly enough, without undue misunderstandings, so that the public and also the State Revenue Service can prepare for these changes without unnecessary rush and stress. Let us do this, and this will mean that, in the foreseeable future, at least a few years to come, both entrepreneurs and citizens will have a stable period of peace in tax matters. Of course, the issues related to the quality of Latvian business environment will not end with the completion of tax reform on the government and Saeima agenda, as administration is still to be improved, the legal environment needs to be improved and the small business environment is to be organised. The strategy for smart specialisation must be implemented. There are many other tasks that need to be done. These are just some of the immediate actions that await us in the near future, and in the implementation of which I call on all of you to engage with the same energy as you have engaged in tax reform. Finally, I call upon you also to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance" because it provides for essential things. It provides for a first camp in the implementation of the health insurance system, namely a payment of one percentage point of health insurance and at least five percentage points of minimum social contributions to beneficiaries and economic operators in cases where social contributions have not been made on a voluntary basis, and in cases where this jeopardises the provision of these people in old age. Because, as we can see, already in Latvia 30 percent of people do not make sufficient social contributions for themselves. This means that an extremely low income will have to be taken into account when old age is expected. Last year, we had a sharp discussion about the introduction of minimum social contributions. This may have been a good, necessary, but perhaps too rapid a step. This is an attempt to even gradually return to the idea of increasing social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U142	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U143	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! I have heard many views about this draft law at the committee's sitting, both on the part of the drafters of this law and on the part of my fellow Members. We took around this bill for more than two hours, and it was clear that the bill was of poor quality. I believe that this is of low quality, both in form and in content, and that is why I and the other colleagues from the opposition in the Commission... we voted both against the urgency and the adoption of the first reading. Of course, the position is 'for'. How can they vote differently? They must vote the way they vote! Why do I believe that this draft law is not of quality? Well, in reality, the drafting of a serious law such as these amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance takes more time than was actually the case for the Ministry of Welfare. I looked at the annotation: they could work with this bill for some two months and, of course, such a deadline obviously turned out to be too small for them. But, looking at the context in which we look at these draft laws - do you not think that too often the urgent procedure is required for draft laws? In my opinion, in general, we voted against one of the really urgent draft laws on which we, the Group from the Heart for Latvia, voted contrary to what some may think... that we so simply beautiful positions after voting always against urgency. That's not the case. We understand that there are draft laws that really need to be voted on urgently. But most of them are unfortunately not draft laws in this category. And then the question arises as to what is the work organisation in those public administration bodies responsible for drafting these laws, and the quality control and quality management. There are obviously major problems in this regard. I have analysed the whole bill so carefully, and in order to be empty, I will mention those weddings that fell so brightly into my eyes. Why am I talking not only about content, let us say, but also about content and form together? For example, there is a proposal to add one of the articles after the specific words “pension insurance” with the words “health insurance”. This article refers to ‘pension insurance’ in two places, but the proposal does not require the addition of the words ‘health insurance’ in both places. We are legislators, we need to work on every point and comma. So it's not insignificant. One example: So one more verse. An article of the law shall be authorized to be supplemented by several parts. But when you look at this particular passage of the law, you see that these parts are not intended at all. I am looking for a whole corresponding article in this draft law, where it could then be included in this proposal to supplement the relevant parts of paragraphs 3, 6, 8, 9 and 12 with specific words and terms. I simply did not find such an article. Another wedding. Does it not seem to you to be the subject of this law - to define how health services are financed? But here, paragraph 11.1, states: “Health insurance financial resources. The health care services paid out of the state budget are partly financed by contributions to health insurance.’ Well, that's definitely not the subject of this law! And another wedding. It is proposed to amend the third paragraph of Article 21.2 and to exclude the words ‘the national general budget’. So this sentence... this norm will read as follows: “The procedure in which the State Social Insurance Agency accounts, calculates and transfers the solidarity tax shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers.” Consequently, the words ‘the general budget of the State’ are deleted. I looked very long and careful: if the national budget does not include it, where will it go? It should appear in the text here, but it doesn't. Thus, it remains the norm that the procedure for the accounting, calculation and deduction of the solidarity tax by the State Social Insurance Agency is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The amount to be reported In my opinion, this is a sufficiently serious wedding. And where else, if we're talking about this word composition in a term that means... Don't you think it's a really, really great wedding? The state mandatory social insurance contribution is directed to private pension funds... First of all, this combination of compulsory insurance shifts... In general, it is a new term in this draft law, the term “directed”. I haven't been dealing with this term before... Who leads, what public institution transfers this money to private pension funds? This is about content. It's about these weddings... But there are other things, very important things, which are also pointed out by the Ministry of Welfare itself. It is very important that for this moment no decision has been taken as to how other social insured persons who pay or are paid labour taxes in special regimes, such as micro-enterprises, will be provided with health care and whether they will be entitled to receive healthcare services paid from the state budget. Likewise, it is not known at this point how and whether the health care services to be paid from the state budget will be received by persons who, due to objective circumstances, are not subject to social insurance at all. For example, non-working pensioners, children - and so on, and so on. In my opinion, as an annotation of the bill... Such fact must not, in principle, be the subject of a draft law, since all these cases must be absolutely clear and must be in a joint package with other draft laws. In this legislative package we will see today both the draft law “Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Law” and the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, but one important law here remains completely unclear. It is a law on the financing of health care; perhaps in other ways it will be called, because the official title of this draft law has not even been formulated; we call each draft law different. But without the presence of this draft law in this package, I think we cannot adopt a quality law. Of course, it is necessary to discuss this situation very carefully and carefully, as both economic operators will be burdened with taxes and self-employed workers who do not contribute to the full income state social security contribution. Both the tax burden and the administrative burden will increase. The tax burden and administrative burden on paying authors will increase. So these are very sensitive issues - especially in this situation, when we have promised our constituents that their contributions will no longer increase at least during our presence in this Saeima. How can we explain these questions to people? And is all that really necessary? As journalists by profession, by speciality, I am also concerned about this statement from the Latvian Press Publishing Association. They have informed the project developers that the fixing of five percentage points of royalties from the funds of the authors of royalties... that it can destroy the printed media industry as such at all. It is recorded, but the answer to whether it really will not happen, or whether we really will not destroy something in order to achieve and do something good again is not given. I believe that, in the week prior to the next Saeima sitting, we cannot be able to prepare this bill qualitatively, either by content or form, for adoption at second, final, reading. And the question is, do the Saeima really have to deal with it? We now have to correct the faults, the inactions, the incompletely done, the bad work that we have worked on and presented to us by the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers. I call for the vote to be taken against this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U144	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U145	I thank my colleague Smiff for an important analysis, on which I will not repeat my speech... But I can describe one thing: the draft law is a brother, and I would say, a hidden cheat. The point that concerns me is that the proposed project in no way solves the issue of ensuring the health care of the ten and tens of thousands of beneficiaries of royalties and their participation in compulsory health insurance. Article 11.1 says... I would say that nothing is said, because the article reads as follows: 'Health insurance funds. The health care services paid from the state budget are partly financed by contributions to health insurance.’ But this is about the fact that the beneficiaries of royalties pay all these five percent to banks, and there's no sign there: these people fall out of the system at all. The other very important thing. This project has been prepared, in my opinion, in conflict with the established and functioning state social insurance and pension system in Latvia. The secretly happens the transfer of minimum pension costs from the social insurance budget to social services and, in the alternative, to state and municipal budgets. This is a planned and significant burden for the state and local authorities and their budgets. FR: Compulsory contributions to private banks. Mandatory - in private banks! This is, in my opinion, a clear banking lobbying, and it is something completely new for many avant-cultural decisions in an experienced Latvia. I believe that shifting the payment of five per cent to banks is in the interest of the banks and not the interests of the people and the state. In my opinion, it is a coincidence that this project came to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and not to the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) to see such funding linked to banks. There were these irregularities, and I really doubt that it is possible to create something new and high-quality within a few days. Even if these five-interest payments to banks were made on a voluntary basis, it would also violate the principle of fair competition by denying the possibility of making these payments to accumulating life insurance funds that work with greater profitability in real life. The banks that have accumulated will now be taken out, spent one day, and then resort to social benefits in their local governments. Neither in the Commission nor in us - no one knows who these authors are, and no one could name them. At least during the meeting of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, it was not possible to say where and who created this project and idea. In my opinion, these authors deserve the annual Latvian Association of Commercial Banks Award for Unself-support to the banking sector. I call on you to vote against this project and send it back to the Cabinet for recycling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U146	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U147	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! My colleagues from the Commission have already explained why Members from the opposition voted against the urgency and draft law at the meeting of the Commission. I want to add the following arguments. First of all, if the coalition agrees that one per cent of the social budget should be directed towards healthcare, it should also be reflected in the draft law. In my opinion, we will prepare this for the second reading and we will present it. We also strongly oppose the transfer of one part of the royalties to private pension funds. We will also put forward this proposal so that all money can be directed to the first level. And more. The fact that we had a brother in the commission is characterized by the fact that a working group was set up. Usually, in the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, the questions that come with it or the amendments to the law are usually discussed very much at the meeting of the Commission, but if a working group is set up, this means that the draft law submitted does not satisfy either the positions or the opposition. Therefore, our group will not support the amendments tabled to the Law on State Social Insurance and will submit its proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U148	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U149	Hello, brothers and sisters! First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who has taken up this kind of work, to say a gigantic job such as tax reform. And as we can see in the media, it's not an easy job, yeah... How much negativity you have to get stuck in all this work! In my opinion, this is a real stateman's action. However, I will not take part in the vote on this draft law. Why? Because I do not have acceptable democratic intrigues. Why am I talking here about democratic intrigues? Because the health chapter of tax reform appeared only afterwards. Why don't I like this health section? Because everything related to treating diseases is, in fact, uncoordinated across Europe. It's a problem! And if we were to solve this problem in Latvia, we would be entitled to the Nobel Prize. And why is this problem? Because the health sector in Europe is not prone to health, but to disease. In fact, to the lobbying of medical and pharmaceutical businesses. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolish intermediate call.) That is why there is also a problem. Next. Why do I think that's all that? At first, when we talked about tax reform... I would also like to criticise my party members there... was discussed to increase the competitiveness of businesses. Increasing the competitiveness of businesses by raising taxes - I fear that this is not the case. Although I have argued to the Ministry of Finance that the objective should be clearer. In fact, what part do we share as nationals along with the competitiveness of entrepreneurs? We must make our country fulfil all its functions so that we can have enough tax money for all these functions of the state. And, as I can see, the only way to get this tax money enough is economic development, and we should sit here and think about how to promote the economy so that it (interim.) tax decoy would be big enough and should not be bothered and challenged. I'm already talking to Mrs. Barch. Yes, I would support the imposition of this one percent on taxation - on one condition: if we devoted this one percent to making the nation healthier, less dependent on medicine, less dependent on pharmaceuticals, and then we would reduce these health costs in time. But I can't see the way to it. Another reason I won't. Because I don't want to go against the Constitution. In the Constitution it is written that we protect health and provide minimal medical care. What else do I want to mention? Why is health an important health issue, not disease treatment? The money you need for nurses... In principle, each year we increase the payment of sick leave for the amounts we need for nurses. Yes! In fact, if we were to build a whole nation, we would have enough money for nurses. In my opinion, we should sit here and think about how to set up a commission, come together, call the wisest forces for us to promote the development of our economy, but now I think we can see from the edge the work of our parliament, the work of the state with such a smile - we are divided and ruled. We are divided into parties that are part of one another, and I believe that this tax reform has not gone that way, either, just because we divide and rule. We are parties that draw it in a filthy way and interfere with proper normal development. In my opinion, we should come together here and define together what we want to see in Latvia in 50, in 100 years. What we want to leave the child to the children, and together - shoulder to shoulder - go to this goal by developing a strategy and developing an action plan. And we Members have control here that this action plan can be implemented. To conclude, let us be good owners in our land!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U150	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U151	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Somewhere in the Saeima stray Prime Minister! Minister for Finance! Many, many of the wisdom of the world tell us that we all need to learn to tell our message without criticizing the other. And, to be honest, I also had the idea - maybe I can talk about this region... rather than regional reforms, but tax reforms and not criticism, but it is quite difficult, to be honest, to say something, so that there is no criticism at the end of each sentence. On the other hand, of course, the opposition can even, in a way, be pleased with the work of such a government, because I think it would be something for each of you to say about a single draft law, in this particular case, the amendment of the law on state social insurance, and the whole package of draft laws. The main thing I want to mention is that, however, this process is not, in my opinion, the way our Prime Minister has said, a process that is attractive for everyone. The Minister himself said clearly and lightly here, from the tribunal, that only coalition parties and social partners were talked about. In other words, the opposition, which represents a large part of Latvian society, was not involved at all in these negotiations. The President of the Bank of Latvia has already said that next year we will be faced with a serious tax pile, not a region - forever in my head!... it directly proves that I have regions in my head and think about regions all the time. So this tax reform is indeed a foam. Mr Putra's name is quite often mentioned here, in the sittings of the Saeima, in the examination of various issues, and I see that at last we will live up to Mr Putra's name and we will be able to refer to this tax reform as a 'Putras' reform, because it really creates a deep blue in the common tax system. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “In the Constitution there are more entries!” ) The fact that all of this process is very hasty shows a very lively event that our Saeima canteen and cafe are not ready to work, because no one expected that the Saeima would meet and discuss such serious issues in summer. As I move away from jokes, but it is gradually, I also want to mention Mr. Neminis who is not here. By the way, where's he gone? Probably looking for who the state belongs to. But I have to remind you what the country is. The country has three basic features - sovereign power, territory and people. And without criticising, or at least trying not to criticise, this 'Purchase reform', I have a recommendation to both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister: I ask you to see if the whole of this package of draft laws will somehow reduce regional inequality, because I did not find such points, and indeed this package of draft laws raises some hope that the demographic situation in our country will improve. The only thing that is mentioned is the inevitable minimum for the dependant, but I think that is not enough. And just - I think yesterday - the public was informed that during the first half of this year we have almost a thousand fewer newborns than last year. Almost a thousand! Ladies and gentlemen! This region... The tax reform does not in any way hope that, however, we could improve the situation on this, in my view, most important issue, despite my apologies, to an increase of five per cent of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to have not only general speeches, I will also offer you a small calculation, which will, to a large extent, show that inequalities in the country are increasing, not decreasing, in substance. Because the presentation that the Minister of Finance offered you all showed you different salaries for different families, with dependants, without dependants, and the minimum threshold that was shown there was the minimum wage. In other words, according to the Ministry of Finance, at least a small amount of this increase in income is expected. But what happens to families who do not even have a minimum wage? And here is already a specific case: one family, with income of only 370 euros per month. And I will allow you, however, to read the whole letter, because I think that Mr Kučinski and Mrs Reizniece-Ozola will not have time to read it in full. ‘ Hello, Members of the Saeima! The new tax reform, which has already been almost negotiated at all levels, has put me out of choice. When writing this letter, I informed you, Members, about the consequences of this reform in my family life, which in your opinion may be insignificant, but may create similar resonating effects in a large part of Latvian society. I am a self-employed person with five dependent children, with an average annual income of about 3000-4000 euros. As a low income recipient with many dependants, so far I have not had to pay personal income tax and will not be subject to the planned "Purple Reform". However, I paid a fine of EUR 50 each year for having many dependants and so little income that I did not pay personal income tax, the so-called minimum IIN introduced during some previous tax reform. Since the monthly income is largely lower than the minimum wage, I would not normally pay social taxes. Following the introduction of the new Putra Reform, my income will be subject to a minimum social tax of five per cent, which, since my income is not planned to be higher than the minimum wage next year, the government will hand in the voluntary pension at the third level with a generous hand. Now a little math. Let us assume that my average income in this year is EUR 370 per month, and per capita, EUR 61.6." I'll shorten it a little. ‘ Consequently, the new "Putra Reforms" will leave a smaller amount of €58.5 per family member." So what does support for low wages, low income recipients look like? Another little fact. ‘ If for some reason my annual income as a self-employed person would be 51 euros... “ Here I will add, for my part, that if there is less than EUR 50, that five percent does not have to be paid; however, if there are more than 50, in this case, if there are 51, a social tax of five percent is payable. Plus the so-called €50 fine for such a small income... As a result, a person with theoretical income of EUR 51 per year would have to pay EUR 52.5 per year. ‘ But it's about the most important thing. If the new tax system, from my family's budget for the year, including every cent, is to be EUR 222, converted into shoes and boots, it is at least five pairs of sufficiently high-quality shoes. God with those shoes!” The man writes that he is willing to sacrifice it in the name of the state and in the name of patriotism. ‘ But this money, which I simply intend to take away, is not put into the state social budget. No, no! It is too small, so it will be given back to the banks at the third pension level, which, in general, was once established by law as voluntary. And, of course, banks will manage it in good faith to increase my pension. I have 30 years of age left before I retired. And now two questions. Which of you, the fachers of the Saeima [you're written], is able to guarantee the existence of at least one existing bank in 30 years' time? And the next question arises: is there at least one logical reason why my family should sponsor Latvian profit banks, suffering their own disadvantage? I informed you that in the case of the approval of the tax reform, I would remove my economic activity from 31 December 2017. Signature: Ilze Mežniece.’ Ladies and gentlemen! The summary of this long letter is that, in my opinion, social inequalities in the country are not reduced through this 'Purple Reform'. I have a question for the Minister for Finance, who mentioned the Gini coefficient: how many percent, how important are we looking forward to improving these indicators in the future? The Minister mentioned dear colleagues in her ministry. And indeed some of them are very expensive... I just took a look at the monthly salary of Jurija Spiridonova, which exceeds 7300 euros from various state and municipal institutions. Mr Kučinska said that all this tax reform and the course of its development could create the conditions for bringing Latvian society together. I'm sorry. I do not see how this could be brought together, because even the Saeima's opposition you did not get involved in the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to remind you once again that the country is not only a budget, it is not just an increase of five per cent of GDP, it is a sovereign power - I hope we still have it - a territory and people, not just officials and not just budget revenues. I call on us not to support this draft law, and also the whole of the 'Purple Reform'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U152	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U153	Dear colleagues, I must have started with Mr. Viļuma's ending. I understand that this tax reform is not just designed by the government. I understand that it is not a decision of the government; it is a decision of the Coalition Council. Namely, not the government in Latvia is preparing draft laws, but a coalition. The government will not even dare to submit a draft law if it has not coordinated it with the coalition. This means that not everyone in the Saeima decides together, but in the Coalition Council 15 persons from the three party blocks come together and decide what policy they will have in the country. Good luck! I would also like to wish Mr Wuzan every success in leading the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. I very much hope that, in the coming week, he and also you, the Members who are working for this Commission, and also, of course, the Social and Labour Commission, will be able to assess all the proposals that will be tabled because... The government is still in the process of preparing these draft laws within six months... Even in recent days, the officials of the Ministry of Finance say: you know, we also agree with an amendment that must be incorporated into it. This means that the reform was not finalised. As a matter of urgency, in a week's time, the Saeima will arrange now. On this particular point, the Minister of Finance can agree with what he said. She compared this tax reform with that of the American mountains: sometimes it is true that something suspicious is about to happen, and suddenly there is breathtaking... The only difference, Minister, is that... I understand that she is now in very serious coordination with the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on how to work next week with the proposals... The only difference is that the American mountain system is based on very precise laws of physics so that the wagons do not jump away from the tracks. In this reform, these budget or tax “mountains” respect the principle of Excel tables, or simple arithmetics, that by subtracting one... No, rather, by adding something to someone, all the others are taken off - just so that the figures coincide. Economic principles are not working here. The economic principles do not work because we have to talk about the overall development of the country and not just about the mathematical completion of the budget. It has been said here all the time that it is the end of a good tax reform in which huge work has been done. People dear, it's a pretty rough patch! Raib's gonna get up! Where we really needed to change something radically, there is nothing in fact. The only thing I agree with is progressive tax, the introduction of progressive income tax. The question then arises: Why then did the solidarity tax, which is attributable to the same amount, remain? The solidarity tax was introduced a few years ago to replace it with a progressive tax. Now introduces one, saves the second as well. At the same time, this tax reform does not solve anything at all, either on the issue of adjustment of roads (the money is not returned to the road fund) or on the issue of real estate tax. People are being left out of their only residential home - their only residential home! So what is it about reform?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At the very beginning, Mr Kučinski stressed very well that during the negotiations the partners refused to negotiate, they went out of the negotiating room. I fully agree with them because it is very wrong to change the original rules during the game. The original terms were agreed by everyone, but then, in negotiations with coalition partners, it turned out that there was no political support for each other, and therefore the other ones - both the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and trade union representatives - had to talk about other figures. And logically, then there is no reconciliation. The Bank of Latvia also said that we had not thought that way. You mentioned at the beginning that we have a big problem - too many people in Latvia are travelling abroad to work or live there. Tell me, please: which of the draft tax reform laws is going to bring these people back? Who? If we look at this draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance" we see that those who will pay one percent will have this health care, but those who have not paid will not receive this health care, they will have to pay. So those people who live abroad go to Latvia to go to doctors for a fee, because they know that there is no line in healthcare for them and that the fee is reasonable enough for them to go to good doctors in Latvia. This is not the reason for people to go back to Latvia! In my opinion, in this way, we could analyse any of the draft laws that have been tabled, and to be honest, we would then come to the same conclusion. Some other areas may need to be changed. We talked today about the Education Law... I think that until we change the Minister of Education and Science, we will be increasingly empty and empty, because by optimizing schools we will no longer leave both teachers and children there, we will move to large "incubators" in big cities, saying that it's all in the interests of quality. We can also accept everything in the interests of tax reform. We will, of course, be voting on each of the draft laws separately. The most important thing, however, is the purpose of the law. I call for the 'no' vote on this draft law because this draft law does not solve those complex issues that need to be resolved and that are related to healthcare.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U154	Thank you. Mr. Zarins, you're going to have two minutes or not to have a debate? No, no. Is it enough for you to have two minutes of debate? The debate was also conducted by Member Silver. We will therefore continue the debate after a break. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Dear colleagues, Member Augusts Brigmanis celebrated his 65th anniversary, and we warmly welcome him! (Applause) Thank you. Name for the statement to the Member Ingmars Līdak.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U155	It's enough to celebrate! Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, to work! Meeting of the 13.45 Commission in Colonel.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U156	Name of notice to Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U157	Meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption in five minutes. On the agenda, there are some draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U158	Thank you. Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U159	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis, Aleksandrs Jakilovs, Andrejs Judines... And, Artuss Neighbour, Waldis Kalnozols... Mr. Nunozol! Jānis Kžads, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Sergejs Mirskis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Andris Siliņš, Veiko Spolitis... Yes. The loudspeak must be called. Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U160	Thank you. Interruption until 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U161	Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We are following the extraordinary session of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance””. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U162	Hello, dear colleagues! I am referring in particular to my colleagues because you probably do not really go into the documents which are being issued and distributed, knowing that the Coalition Council has decided and that it is already clear to you what votes should be made in this Chamber. Then, I would like to recommend that you read the annotation, even some of the annotation that is annexed to this draft law - amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance”. And there is only one proposal maker and one proposal maker in this argument, as in any other way, - that is the Coalition Council. That is what this document reveals in a very classic way. I must say that the Coalition Council has worked rather weakly, because I want to speak precisely about the section that concerns healthcare. If we come with proposals to increase funding for healthcare, of course we support them. It is not a question of this, and I want to say it right away, so that there is no medical impression that, when we call for this draft law not to be supported, we would argue in some way that we should not find additional resources, resources, resources for health care. What we stand against - against the production of such darts! Why will healthcare be provided only by the part of the population - so-called 'general regime workers', that is, those people who receive regular pay? Because this draft law provides for one per cent of their taxes - in addition to the taxes paid in social insurance - to be shifted to healthcare, but absolutely nothing is said about other categories of the population. What will happen to those paying royalties, self-employed workers, micro-enterprises and so on? They're all forgotten here! But what do we think is just as important? On the revenue side, we also have to talk about the expenditure side, but there is a great deal of inaction by the Coalition Council, or a lack of time, or a unwillingness to get strained at work. It would have been right if we saw here a package on "health care". Where do we see a draft law setting out how and what services are paid by the State, on what principles are they paid; what are the services paid by the State through taxes received, and what is the part that everyone cares about, and on what principles is ultimately formed? If these are the much-scanned insurance principles, then they must indeed be shown throughout the legislation. Is this simply the principle of grants? Looking at the principle of how much tax has been paid? That is why, in order not to encourage the public to have access to some health services, because one percentage point of the taxes they pay will be passed on to cover health care costs, but for all the others, I call for this bill not to be supported. And more. If you read this bill, you understand once again that one percentage point - it is already an additional burden not for the state budget, because these costs, which are necessary for the state budget to pay one percentage point, will also be paid by the same business, entrepreneurship, because they already have the burden... without one percentage that will have to be paid for its employees, there will also be one percentage that has to be paid for all employees of state budget and municipal institutions. If these extra expenditures are not foreseen for the institutions, then... Today, we understand all of this virtually as part of the transfer of expenditure within all other programmes to each other, which is healthcare, to the authorities to cover their expenditure. And again, very well here you can see that no one has looked into things in essence. How will spending on the state budget as a whole and this health care programme be formed next year? I therefore call for this draft law to be returned to the Coalition Council. They will have enough time to work well in the coming month and to submit a high-quality draft health legislation, together with both the expenditure side and the revenue side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U163	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U164	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Today, I think, is a truly historic day. That's right, historical! Because it is a social insurance law, because at last, like our neighbours - Estonia and Lithuania - we have dared to introduce compulsory public health insurance and to record it in the law. That's it! Not only is this one percentage set aside for insurance, but the concept of insurance itself has also been recorded. And it shall not be written in this law to whom it is due. This will be written in a special special health care financing law, which has to a large extent been established in its basic principles and will be available to the Social and Labour Commission this week. But we will talk about this later when we look at the budget package. What is important is that, as we have been learning for twenty years, we have finally understood the need for additional money. In 16 European countries, state compulsory health insurance exists, but it is also important for Estonians and Lithuanians. But we are separated from the Lithuanian health budget by a huge gap of EUR 300 million, based on the population. Finally, it is understood, and indeed it is very important. I have to thank the Prime Minister here, because during the conference on health insurance organised by the Saeima on 31 March, the Minister of Health, Anda Čakša, called this insurance idea a heated soup. But when there was nothing later, with the support of the Prime Minister and the Government, it was possible to put this idea further into practice. That is a historical fact! It must be entered on the parliamentary verbatim record. And that is why I think that is really something, because the rest of the reform package provides for tax changes. In the area of health, it provides for structural changes - this is a fundamental change in the financing arrangements. That, I think, is the most important thing to say when it comes to this draft law. ( The transcripts are: “Rightly! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U165	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U166	Thank you, Prime Minister, you have remained after the sitting's break. Thank you, Minister, for being here. This shows that you really care about this tax reform. I do not know if I care about the rest of the coalition, because, as I understand, if there were no opposition to vote, then once again, everything here would be burned in blue alcohol fires, as it was a year ago, because this tax reform would stop. One thing is the Lyric that you said from this platform. Another case is specific cases, concrete facts. If we are talking about lyrica, there are indeed no elephants living in Latvia, I agree with you, Prime Minister. But in Latvia neither do the bears of happiness exist, and therefore it is in vain that they should be sought. Nor is this tax reform any kind of bear of happiness, whatever it may be. Unfortunately, when it comes to such a serious reform, it had to come up as such a systematic and sustainable solution. This tax reform is not the case. Not only have you not been able to prepare a systemically sustainable solution, you are surrounded by your own basics, your own priorities. That is, what was one of the priorities of this tax reform? One of the priorities of this tax reform was to reduce the tax burden on labour - a very correct principle! -, it must be transported to consumption, to the wealth accumulated. But what the hell did you do in this bill?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You propose a bill in which you raise this burden. Why is this necessary? And this is one of the assurances that these efforts of you are not well thought out and lacked the capacity to bring this reform to its end. Perhaps the reason... These amendments also confirm that this has not been a systemically correct and sustainable solution. Why? Because... What does one percentage point increase this tax burden on labour cover? With the need to find funding for health, which in turn means what? That this tax reform was not at all about how to finance health care. And that's not a miracle! Because if we look at it, then actually all the efforts that have been based on “the success story” and everything that has been before “the success story”... The main compensatory mechanisms for all efforts of the government coalition have been based on the cost of health care, i.e. on patients waiting, suffering and dying in queues, without waiting for adequate health care, on doctors working in class labors for tombs, and on failing roads, for which no solution has yet been found in this reform. And that is very worrying. That, in turn, means what? No matter how beautiful this tax reform would be, no matter how good it was, even if it were accepted, the intended result will not be achieved. One of the biggest drawbacks is that this tax reform will not be sustainable. Because if these holes are left in the budget and if there is no answer to how health care will eventually be financed, how the roads will be... Where will the money come from? If not, it means that after a year, after two you will come and say: everything needs to be changed again, because money isn't all about it! Because there is only such an alternative: either it is continuing to collapse or everything needs to be changed again. So what was the point of all this big tax reform? After all, the businessmen who were so happy that ( Dep. A.Barch's intermediate call.) ... I am speaking in the same way as the coalition's representatives... ( Interface: “There was nothing! ” ) Yes! And ultimately, this tax reform will turn out to be a defect, because once again entrepreneurs will not be able to rely on the promises, the beautiful promises they have been given with regard to the tax reform. And if we come back... Where are the risks? When it comes specifically to this draft law, it must be said that there is one very high risk and, in my opinion, a fundamental mistake... It is a fundamental mistake that you have linked health funding to the payment of labour taxes... Well, in this particular case, it's about social security... national social security charges. Yeah, what's going on now? With this tax reform, you are subject to... in principle create another risk. You put the entire public special budget at risk. This is about the so-called social budget. This is about the sustainability of pensions, because one percent will not be enough for health. What has been found and which is well presented as a solution to health care is, in fact, no solution. All right! 80 million have been found. Yes, there has not been such a large sum so far, but this hole in health care, even according to the Ministry of Health itself, is times ten greater. That means that the money will need more. And if we're here now... What you, the coalition, are proposing is to enter the social budget from which pensions are paid. There is a huge risk that everything that has not been done... that this allowed big hole in healthcare will have to be covered in the future at the expense of pensions, because money will have to be taken from somewhere. If you have decided that this is a social budget, then it means... And more! You have promised that by 2020, there will be four percent of GDP... Where do you come from? If you come here now and say here that it will not come from the social budget, then the question is: why could it not immediately be the solution so that the social budget did not go in at all? That's one thing. And it shows that the coalition does not, however, have the capacity to implement some systemic, sustainable solutions in the future of the country. Yes, the wish is... I really see, Prime Minister, that you have a wish, the Minister for Finance, but... Well, with that coalition you have it as it is. You obviously lack the consensus in the coalition so that you can make the right, sustainable, thoughtful decisions. Because if it were a sustainable and thoughtful decision, then you would have dealt with health funding not at the expense of labour taxation, but as you have postulated it, transferring the burden either on consumption or on the wealth accumulated. You weren't able to do that for some reason. And another reason why I am very concerned about this budget... such tax amendments are the fact that neither the Ministry of Welfare nor the Ministry of Finance have, unfortunately, been able to provide estimates that would confirm the sustainability of the state's special budget, that is, the sustainability of pensions. The Ministry of Finance, of course, rightly pointed out that it was more competent to the Ministry of Welfare and said that the Ministry of Welfare is doing all this. We had three times to ask the Ministry of Welfare where the calculations are. In the end, however, we forced them, and they admitted that they had no such calculation at all. So there is no calculation based on realistic, up-to-date data of the sustainability of the pension system, the first-tier pension system. There are no estimates in the country! In addition, we also figure out, in parallel, that we will say that we will go in there for more health care. Well, if not, then not! Well, for this moment, yes, there's a savings. There are some millions that have been accumulated, on account of the fact that there will be this pit of the future. But will this provision be sufficient for this future pit? There is no such calculation at all. I understand that the elections are coming, and now the main thing is to "hate" all this measure. And so, Prime Minister, I have one proposal for you. If you could get away from your phone... I guess you can't... I'll tell you to keep it on the vernacular. Yes! So when it comes to health care, it is obvious that this money will not be enough, because this money... What it's meant to be... These 80 million... You can now, of course, promise everyone that everyone will be sufficient, but obviously that will not be enough. There's going to be a tear on all this. And it would be very good if you asked the Minister for Health even before she goes on deserved leave, that perhaps it should prepare someone, so to say, a view of where that money will actually go, how it will go. The other thing that should be done. If we're talking about health care... So that this hole really does not lie on the next amendments to this law and we should not raise another percentage of social security rates, but we should come with a concrete reform plan, with where then really goes... if we are talking about this hole, which is almost 10 times greater than the money that we will now try to get with these amendments... how it will actually be divided and what will be done to really... Sorry, as a person who has worked at tariffs, I can tell you that still the Ministry of Health does not understand exactly how much the service is paid, because these services are priced at all according to the wrong principles, they do not meet the costs. What causes all these problems that public medicine does not want to provide? You know, it's not good. Let a man go to a private medical institution. That's one of the things. And that's why my call would be responsible. If, however, you feel that you do not have the necessary harmony with each other, then look beyond how the system can be dealt with. If we really want to think not only about the next elections, but also about future generations, then obviously this coalition is not able to do so... You must take perhaps more principled solutions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Well, please!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U167	I closed the debate. Mrs Barch, on behalf of the Commission, and what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U168	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, colleagues, for such an emotional debate. I'm trying to listen very carefully. Some things I've noted. And on behalf of the Commission, I have a duty to clarify a number of issues. First of all, I informed the honourable Members and honourable Members that the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs will also address the issue of possible amendments and improvements to the law “On State Social Insurance” at the meeting of the Commission today. And I am particularly warmly calling on those Members who did not participate in the working group. We have already developed quite a lot in the working group, we have reached an agreement with the finance ministers, while the welfare minister is still thinking seriously about some issues. He is not currently in Latvia, but next Wednesday at 10.00 he will attend our committee meeting. That is why I am calling in particular on both our Commissioner, Mr Mārtiņš Šics, and Mrs Sylvia Šimfas... If you have not been to the working group, be so kind, look. The problems that you have discussed very seriously today are also on the table. Mr Orlov also actively participated in the working group and expressed his proposals and wishes. At the Commission meeting today, Mr Orlov will already have the opportunity to see and make sure that this is the case. Colleagues said that the draft law is of poor quality and whether or not the Saeima should do the work of the Ministry or the Cabinet of Ministers. I think, fellow Members, we need to do our job. No regulatory act shall state that Members of the Saeima shall, without changing anything, vote in favour of a draft law at second or third reading, either by the Cabinet of Ministers or by five Members or more, or by a commission. I listened, and to be honest, I was a little surprised by Mr Kalnozol, who does not want to support the shift of this one per cent of social security contributions to healthcare. Mr Viļuma, I could invite you to individual negotiations, and I would be happy to tell you what social security is. Then you would hear what social insurance, social security, social care... Or you are welcome to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs because, I think, perhaps simply because you are not so close to that social block, you could not explain to those people who spoke to you why it is so difficult for them to live in their own family and why you were so worried that in this particular case it would be very bad if there were these amendments to the law on State Social Insurance. Mr Kūtra called on us to evaluate all draft laws. Of course we will. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I can certainly say this, because many of our committee Members are already working on several terms of reference, even very many terms of reference, and we have always been very honest about work. And for all my colleagues in a row, I could say that the Health Care Financing Act at the Ministry of Health has been becoming a good moment. Maybe we forgot that the Latvian Parliament gave the task to the Cabinet of Ministers - to draft the health care financing law before 1 September? I think we don't need to give a task to the Cabinet for the second time. I would not like to agree with Mrs Silver's statement that the coalition Members will not go into paperwork. We are trying, just like you, to read documents very seriously, but not always our opinion is in line with what the relevant Ministry or, after that, the Cabinet of Ministers has presented in Parliament. And that is why, dear colleagues, we are here to work on the bill and prepare it for the second, final, reading. Your proposals in the work of the Social and Labour Commission will certainly be taken into account too, and I also very much hope that our Commission will also work with the new Health Finance Act. But, honourable colleagues, before I call on behalf of the Commission, to vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance", I would like to speak almost or similarly to Mr Zarins. I think that today, this first-reading vote will show very clearly to the public who are ready to launch at least additional funds and support for health care, in the amount of one percentage point of national social security contributions, and who are not prepared for this and are just saying that we are definitely in favour of increasing the pay paid by medical professionals - here I mean those nurses who work not only in private practices, but also in public and municipal hospitals, and also doctors. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U169	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals as well as a time limit for consideration of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U170	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the deadline for the submission of proposals on 24 July (by 1 p.m.) and for the second, final reading to be held at the extraordinary meeting on 27 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U171	Thank you. Proposals must be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July this year, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 27 July. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “Silvij, hold on!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U172	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! I can comfort all those who are worried about my emotional or unemotional speech. I will be speaking very monotons because this draft law no longer affects their previous package and block, something else. Thus, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” and suggests that it should also be discussed at the Saeima sitting and adopted at first reading, because this draft law, in the opinion of the members of the Commission, when we saw it at the committee meeting, and the unanimous vote of our committee that it should be put forward for the first reading at the Saeima sitting, shows that this, unlike the previously examined project, is really good, qualitatively prepared. And if someone is deeply interested in the substance of these amendments, it can be found in a very wide, very precise, well-prepared annexation of this bill. So the main things about which this bill is about. The draft law ‘Amendments to the Labour Act’ is designed to take over certain requirements of the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures facilitating the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the field of freedom of movement for workers, on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational projects, as well as the work of a guest child. This draft law is designed to improve the regulation of labour relations, taking into account both proposals of social partner organisations and conclusions of case-law. A series of amendments to the Labour Law has been submitted by the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia, noting that it is necessary to make changes and improvements to the legal framework relating to labour law and labour production regulations, as there are areas where specific shortcomings in the regulations or outdated legal framework reduce the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and create a wide financial and administrative burden for employers and investors. Consequently, these institutions have also made their proposals. The history of the preparation of this draft law must be said in such a way that part of these proposals have been agreed upon by all the main parties - the government and the social partners - but it is part of the proposals that have not been agreed upon. And in order to move forward on the issues that have been agreed, the draft law, "Amendments to the Labour Act", has been drawn up. So on behalf of the Commission, I must call on you, colleagues, to make the draft law on "Amendments to Labour Law" urgent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “Don’t!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U173	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U174	On behalf of the Commission, I propose voting in favour of this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U175	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U176	The time limit for submitting tenders shall be 24 July at 13.00.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U177	And the time of consideration?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U178	Discussion of the second, final, reading of the extraordinary session of 27 July. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “See what quality document means! 80 votes!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U179	Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July this year, at the extraordinary session of the Saeima, on 27 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U180	Colleagues! This draft law comes from a group of so-called tax reform joint measures. This is a compensatory bill to introduce good things such as labour tax reform and reinvested profits. There are, of course, also partly painful measures, although in this case it has to be said that this measure does not change for taxpayers, as the existing tax arrangements remain. The Commission has examined this draft law and has given it urgency. I ask Members to make this draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U181	Ms Inguna Silverba, Member of Parliament, will be speaking with urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U182	Yes! Dear colleagues, I will talk about the urgency of the context in which I am opposed to the urgency of the whole tax reform package. I often refer to the fact that, in my view, it is very important for Parliament to work as a real legislator and to have both quality information for this legislator to be able to work and sufficient time for it to go into the substance of the matter, to make its proposals, to argue, to debate and so on. In my opinion, there is such a great fear if such a pace is driven by a huge amount of tax law. I will not talk about the number of technical drones in these laws (I hope that the officials have continued to "catch" this drone out and we will see a great many amendments tabled for the second reading to prevent the technical drone), but I will say that I think it is also a drone on the part of the government in the sense that this tax package should have been accompanied by a document that would justify a change in economic policy, economic forecasts. Because in these annotations, we can read about the effect that the economy as a whole will gain from the amendment of one or the other law, but we do not see what the government has then changed in those documents of the medium or other term, which have already been approved. This, in my opinion, is not only a technical crèche; it is also a crèche in substance, because it shows that this tax package has been driven once again as a one-off Excel exercise: on one side it reduces tax (and is based mainly on personal tax, reducing personal income tax), but on the other side it is purely looking for all the possibilities how it can be compensated. And when there is a lack of what to compensate for, it is assumed that the economy as a whole will also develop more successfully and that as a result, there will still be such an overall increase in tax revenues. I therefore believe that it is not justified that Parliament is subject to this, I would like to say, to rush and fail to evaluate its role, because it is the role of parliamentary democracy - not just to be obedient to the Executive of the Coalition Council's decision, but to be a real controller of executive powers, a quality controller of executive powers. Therefore, I call: think about it. Perhaps, though, it is worth doing everything, not in a hurry, but by studying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U183	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to vehicle operation tax and company tax on light-duty vehicles”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U184	Colleagues! I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U185	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 12, for - 17. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U186	The deadline for submitting the proposals is 1 p.m. on 24 July this year. Second reading - Parliamentary extraordinary session of 27 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U187	Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Consequently, proposals must be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its extraordinary meeting on 27 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Support for taxpayers for the cancellation of late payment and penalty”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U188	Colleagues, the draft law on aid to taxpayers for the recovery of late payment and fines was designed as one of the measures to provide support to taxpayers. It is also one of the mechanisms to compensate for the deficit caused by the tax reform. The draft law provides for the introduction of support for taxpayers for the redemption of late payment and penalty for two years, providing that within 21 days after payment of the principal amount of the principal amount of full tax, the taxpayer is extinguished the penalty and penalty related to the tax debt. The legislation contained in the draft law provides for aid as a one-off measure. The Commission supported the draft legislation at first reading and proposed that it be identified as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U189	Thank you. We must therefore vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on aid to taxpayers for the recovery of late payment and penalty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 52, it's 29, it's not. Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U190	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U191	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U192	Dear colleagues, It goes without saying that the tax regime, which allows us to combat to some extent the consequences of small and particularly medium-sized businesses, is not functioning properly, because the tax system is not working properly, perhaps the administration system, the rule of law in the country and so on. We need to fight the consequences. Absolutely. And this bill is a fight against the consequences. But in this tax package, I do not see any proposal to combat the causes. The Minister of Finance can certainly confirm that this is the truth: when I asked where these 33 million budget will come from next year and subsequent years, the Minister of Finance said that she could not answer that question. The State Revenue Service can answer this question. I was promised that an estimate of how these 33 million had emerged would be sent. I must admit that I have still not received these calculations, and I assume that this will be as usual - for the opposition, information will be sent after the issue has already been dealt with in the Saeima. We were faced with this in the course of the examination of the budget package, when we were waiting for the Saeima to hold its sittings, and then sent information, even after a month's waiting, to each other's ministry. I assume that this will also happen now. I would like to say that, of course, it is now the responsibility of the coalition, in what way the budget will be put together. But put it in front that today those taxpayers who face shorter or more lasting financial difficulties, but are able to conclude an agreement with the State Revenue Service already within their resources on the timetables when they will pay delayed tax payments, they do so! I really don't understand... I assume that the Finance Minister will now come to this question: where will the very many hundred thousand taxpayers come from, so that something will suddenly start to pay extra, alongside those who are already entering into and paying such agreements today. Because if they are unable to survive financially, they are already putting an end to their economic activity. The sadst thing in this story is that there is no offer here to really find a tax regime so that small and medium-sized businesses can exist fairly, develop and pay taxes. We will support this draft law because, once again, it is some kind of support, but it is not a solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U193	Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U194	Honourable Members! Mrs Silver is absolutely right that it is not worth combating only the consequences, we must also fight against the causes, and in relation to these issues we are working together with the State Revenue Service to make tax administration more convenient and the State Revenue Service's penal policy more sensible. Some figures, which are also the basis for calculating the fiscal impact of such a one-off aid measure. The total debt of the budget payments administered by the SRS for January 1, 2017 is 1.36 billion. A large part of this tax debt is, in fact, a debt which, as we know clearly and also the State Revenue Service know, will not be able to recover. Therefore, amendments are made so that in cases where the State Revenue Service sees that it will no longer be physically possible to recover the tax debt, this debt will not appear to us as a tax debt and would be written off. As a result, we would improve statistics and the State Revenue Service would not be forced, so to say, to drive works where meanings are little. Of these 1,36 billion 986 million, 73 per cent is the principal debt, while 373 million, or 27 per cent, is the late payment. The basic debt of natural persons is only nine per cent of the tax debt recorded in the entire SRS. However, if we look at the active tax debtors, which are about 132 thousand on January 1 of this year, we see that 40 percent of them, or more than 52 thousand, are natural persons. And the calculations made by the State Revenue Service show - and I also mentioned this in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission - that, at present, the amount of tax debt that would be attributable to the proposal of this law (will those who could actually qualify really take advantage of such a one-off opportunity?) , is about EUR 163 million. This is a conservative assessment, also taking into account the actual situation in companies and the previous cooperation with natural persons. There are, of course, a number of people who are currently indebted but who will not be able to benefit from this one-off support measure: those who have been subject to a decision to suspend their economic activity, and those who have been excluded from the VAT register, as well as those who are on the list of persons at risk, or... if there has been a company with a board of directors for more than three months... the Management Board does not have the right of representation. And that average amount of debt to be recovered is EUR 1570 per debtor (mainly a natural person is talking). And most often, in such situations, non-payers get a tax on capital gains, because, in most cases, a person did not know when selling the property that capital gains tax had to be paid, and only at the end of the year, when he received an invoice with a fine and a late payment calculation, realises that this had not been done. It is therefore appropriate to give such an opportunity to delete this amount of penalty and penalty payment in a reasonable schedule for settlement with the State Revenue Service. And, of course, we will send these estimates to Mrs Silver and we will also present them to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U195	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mrs Straujuma, on behalf of the Commission, what is to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U196	Colleagues! The Minister has already explained how the Ministry of Finance has calculated these 33 million... This will be a compensatory measure. And the Commission assessed such a draft law as a very positive step to support taxpayers. Please support me. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U197	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on aid to taxpayers for the recovery of late payment and penalty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U198	The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 July at 13.00, and the examination of the draft law at second reading is scheduled for 27 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U199	Thank you. So the proposals are due to be submitted by 13.00 on 24 July this year, the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima - 27 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U200	Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees” submitted to it in preparation for the first reading. This draft law is aimed at meeting the four tasks set out in the National Tax Policy Guidelines adopted in May 2018-2021. And these tasks are: to improve the monitoring of the tax payment of natural persons by receiving information about the turnover of the natural person's account or credit obligations; the second task: to publish on the State Revenue Service's website information about taxpayers who do not comply with the obligations provided for in the tax laws, in compliance with the principles of personal data protection; the third task: to provide the State Revenue Service with the right of taxpayers who are to exercise control of the tax administration to apply all means of enforcement provided for by the law, including the preservation of movable property, the recording of the claim security note in the land register, the ship register or other registers; the fourth task: to regulate issues of limitation of recovery. The corresponding draft law covers three areas in substance. These areas are: improving the monitoring of personal tax payments; second area: promoting transparency of information and public participation; third area: changing the enforcement of the decision... And that is also the compensatory mechanism for those additional tasks that might arise from the implementation of the tax reform and concern three types of taxation: personal income tax, value added tax and compulsory state social security contributions for a total amount of EUR 15.3 million. The implementation of the reform also entails additional costs estimated at € 164 000. And by adopting this draft law, we must be aware that further changes to the Credit Institutions' Law and the Payment Services and Electronic Money Law will also be necessary. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has also asked for urgent approval for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U201	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U202	On behalf of the Commission, please approve the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U203	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U204	Dear colleagues, I call on you perhaps not to spend your money on this measure, because these rules, which are recorded here, do not really apply to tax reform. They relate to improving tax administration. That's on the one hand. On the other hand, there are many things in this draft law that will have to be thought very seriously about by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission (if the Commission takes a decision in general), because the Constitution has been violated here, specifically human rights recorded in the Constitution. Once again, I draw my fellow Members' attention to this text, because it seems to me, as Mrs Silver has already said, that Members do not read the text. Firstly, the first proposal is that credit institutions notify the State Revenue Service whether the turnover of a person's account (in debit or credit) exceeds 15 thousand per year. This is the absolute value of the assets sensitive to health disability — morbidity risk — Medical expense charge, after the shock (before the loss absorbing capacity of technical provisions) — Medical expense charge, after the loss absorbing capacity of technical You may say, of course... The Ministry of Finance has also stated in the annotation that, you know, the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights say that in the public interest, any amendments to the law may be adopted, any methods may be used. No, you can't! In the absence of annotation, it is simply said that, you know, general order allows you to fight for tax revenues. If human rights are violated by the majority of society in order to fight against some who may not pay taxes, then proportionality does not exist in any way. I am not talking at the moment about the fact that the State Revenue Service will receive a terrible amount of information ( 15 thousand turnover in the account - it is not very extraordinary) and the State Revenue Service will not have to do anything with this information. The second question is that the minimum monthly wages or the minimum wages - the entrepreneurs - should be recorded, published. Again, this is the purest commercial information - how much a private company pays to its employees. It is known to the State Revenue Service, but society is unlikely to always have the right to request this information. There are even more crazy things in the next two points. The State Revenue Service will make public information about those who have been administratively punished. Oh, my God! In international practice, there is a great deal of discussion in normal legal countries about whether criminal lists may be made public. Remember how long the discussion was about publicising the same paedophiles that are... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Here we are talking about administrative penalties. Here, from this troupe, there have been many speeches about totalitarianism and a political state, but to be honest, for some purpose, it is a complete suspicion of a democratic state or totalitarian. Tracking - everyone! And if you read this text carefully, you'll read even more funny mosses. The State Revenue Service will make public information about those people who have not submitted these declarations. Why will the State Revenue Service publish such information? Written: to ensure that the State Revenue Service is able to exercise full and timely control over the payment of taxes. In particular, the State Revenue Service, which will not make public all the applicants of declarations and is unable to carry out timely controls, must first make public those who have not submitted declarations and then be able to successfully carry out such controls. Oh, my God! There's a different idea in here. Here is the idea of public shame. However, public shame has not been recorded in Article 116 of the Satversme, which defines what human rights may be violated for legitimate purposes. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U205	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U206	Yes, colleagues! Yes! On the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we have already discussed the issues that Mr Kūtra has just spoken about, in preparation for the first reading. This draft law has a very long annotation - on 18 pages. Apparently, employees of the Ministry of Finance who have prepared this annotation have carefully analysed various court proceedings, including case law of the European Union in these matters. The question is where personal rights can be violated in the public interest. The question is really not a threefold one. The question is also about the principles of proportionality. Is this account turnover threshold - 15 thousand - starting with which commercial banks should notify the State Revenue Service of each of us, really does not apply to most of Latvia's population, as Mr Kūtra said? Would this threshold not be up, so that really it would not be the situation of the majority? On the other hand, the staff of the Ministry of Finance, and also the Minister, have explained to us that this level - 15 000 - is due to the fact that it is a typical level of turnover for those who receive envelope wages, and that about so much of them receive the envelope annually. And if this cash received is then paid into the bank account, it is practically one way to try to identify these things. Obviously there will be a discussion on this again in the committee for the second reading. There will be once again, I allow, further clarifications from the Ministry of Finance. But in any case, the Commission decided to support this draft law at first reading, and I would ask for it to be supported at the Saeima sitting as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U207	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U208	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading, 24 July at 13.00, and for the second reading at the extraordinary session on 27 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U209	Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July this year, at the extraordinary session of the Saeima, on 27 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U210	Dear President, Honourable Members! ‘ Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” were designed to reduce cases of fraud related to refund of value added tax from the state budget. One of the main proposals is to reduce the so-called ceiling for unregistered taxpayers, which was 50 000 euros, to EUR 40 000 in order to pay this tax. In Article 142, the special tax treatment is offered to manufacturers and builders of building materials, construction products, so the tax will be paid to the State by the recipient of these goods or the contracting entity; the service provider only issues the value of the service free of tax on this invoice. There is also an amendment to Article 143 - in addition to laptops, tablets, integrated circuit devices, it is proposed to apply the special tax regime to gaming consoles, metal products and related services, as well as to the supply of electronic household appliances and household appliances. The Commission proposes that these draft laws be declared urgent. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U211	Thank you. The Commission calls for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 50, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U212	I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U213	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U214	Please submit your proposals by 1 p.m. on July 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U215	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U216	The next sitting, so on 27 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U217	Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July this year, and the discussion should take place at the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 27 July. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gambling Tax and Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U218	Dear colleagues, This is one of the draft laws, which is a compensatory mechanism for introducing tax reforms in corporate tax, as well as for reducing personal income tax and increasing incentives. It is planned to change the rates for both machines and tables. It has to be said that these rates have not actually been changed for six years, unless they include amendments in 2014, when the rate for slot machines rose by two percent, four percent - for gaming tables. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the answer to the question was that only 30 per cent of this rate, if this rate is significantly higher in the same Estonia, was: initially 50 per cent, but then it came to the conclusion that 30 per cent would be more proportionate. So that this debate is certainly still ahead of second reading. The overall impact is positive - 8 million 253 thousand are foreseen. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U219	Thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax”” as urgent! Please have a whitening mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Milestones.) That means there's no quorum in the hall. ( Milestones.) Please repeat the vote. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 1, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U220	Yeah. A unique case. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U221	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U222	Dear colleagues, I understand that it is not good to defend the gambling business from this platform, because the people will not understand. But in this case, I will draw your attention to what is written in this bill, which does not really look good. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union On October 10, 2012, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted an order (which was then the Prime Minister may remember colleagues themselves) approving the concept of connecting gaming machines to a single network. And there were recorded variants. The second option provided for the establishment of a single system for operators of gambling in the country and the introduction of this single system was paid by the operators of gambling business themselves, that is, operators. The Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance can also draw attention to the fact that, in the second option, alongside this obligation imposed on economic operators, it was stated that, with regard to changes in public and municipal budgets, the introduction of the second option does not involve an increase in gambling tax revenues, as the concept does not provide for a change in the subject matter of the gambling tax. After that - next year, 2013 and 28 June - the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance signs an agreement on the implementation of the second option. This means that this obligation has been incorporated into the law. By 1 January 2019 a single system is set up to control gambling sites - gambling tables and gaming machines - in return for not changing the tax rate. I understand, of course, that there is the principle of legitimate expectations: when something is written in the law, there is legal certainty. But the other is there is also a gentleman's agreement. If an agreement is reached between the parties, such an agreement shall normally be observed in the normal company. I hope that, however, this will be re-examined. Secondly, I very much ask the finance ministers to draw attention to the fact that on 1 June of this year the Latvian Association of Gambling, Entertainment and Lottery Business presented you with a rather wide list of how to supplement the revenues from this gaming business, but these proposals were actually ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U223	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “There is nothing to add!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U224	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission except that we support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U225	The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Fees and Taxes”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 1, for - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U226	Time limit for submission of proposals - July 24 at 13.00, examination - July 27th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U227	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July this year, at the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 27 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U228	Colleagues! In the Commission, we have examined one of the largest draft laws, and it provides for the following amendments to the personal income tax: the transition to the progressive personal income tax rate of 20, 23 and 31.4 per cent; the introduction of a uniform personal income tax rate of 20 per cent on income from capital and capital gains; the taxation of dividends through personal income tax in a single system with corporate income tax. It is also intended to introduce a differentiated non-deductible minimum during the tax year and to increase the non-deductible minimum pensions. It also amends the scope of eligible expenditure by setting a limit on the amount of eligible expenditure. Changes are foreseen in the field of the determination of income for economic activities, amendments have been made to the reduction of administrative burdens, as well as other technical amendments. The Commission has examined this draft law and supported its urgency. I also call on my colleagues to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U229	Thank you. The Commission therefore calls on us to declare the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 49, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U230	Hello, honourable Members and honourable Members! This draft law, as well as the draft law on corporate income tax, form the basis for the reform of the tax system and are interrelated. It is these draft laws that contain the salt of reform. That is why Members of the Group have encouraged them to look ahead to the other draft laws of the tax package. But this draft law also provides the basis for assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the tax reform. In the media, there is a general scepticism about the prospects for tax reform planned by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. This sceptic is based on little analysis, but a lot of desire to see the reform as failing. And this desire lies basically, in my view, with the intention of lobbyists not to allow an increase in tax payments to the recipients of the high income. The reform has two objectives that justify the work undertaken: increasing the motivation of entrepreneurship and, at the same time, reducing social inequalities. In order to achieve the first objective, income tax exempts undistributed income of the company, while reducing social inequality introduces progress in personal income tax rates, as we have already heard from the Minister of Finance. It was such a change in the tax system during the last four consecutive years of the adoption of the state budget that the group's politicians consistently encouraged and supported the committees in the Saeima. Thus, since 2009 it has been called for progress in the tax system. I have looked deeply into the subject to find quite convincingly that the direction in which the government deals with tax policy is the right one. After Latvia joined the World Trade Organisation, joined the European Union and replaced the national currency against the euro, it cannot now use customs duties to regulate the import stream, subsidise or implement other protectionist policy instruments, as well as to use the exchange rate of the national currency to promote exports. And the funds left to the public and the government are primarily state aid for the development of the real economy, including direct state investment in the share capital and tax policy of companies. Consequently, there are no alternatives to tax reform. The question is, how to reform? Because undistributed profits will not be taxed, there will also be no revenue in the budget. It will grow over a few years, as has happened in Estonia, but the drop in revenue needs to be compensated now. The government intends to fill it by raising excise duty. This will increase prices on the market, but this price increase will be felt mainly by those consumers who already pay a relatively large proportion of their income in taxes. This will create new regression and lead to reform contrary to its objective. The objective need to crave the budget was forced to do what the government did not dare to do to reduce social inequalities, namely to extend the progressive nature of personal income tax rates to another third rate. But this progressiveity is rather timid, because it only applies to wages. It will not reduce social inequality, nor will it thirst out the budget. However, the two challenges will certainly be solved, firstly, if the uniform rate is applied to all types of income, thus also to capital income, including dividends, and secondly, if the progressive nature of personal income tax rates is also introduced in relation to dividends. So we conclude: to ensure that undistributed income is exempt from tax, only sensible, just and consistent action with the objective of the reform will be needed, which will create new revenue for the budget, namely the transfer of the personal income tax burden to the recipients of the high income. In addition, it is necessary to introduce rate steps to which the rates of duty vary according to an economically reasonable level. This size is, in my opinion, a revenue that depends on the average monthly salary. Consequently, income which is lower or equal to the average monthly salary in the country is subject to one rate; those that are equal to two wages - to a higher rate, but those that exceed two monthly average wages, to another one - to an even higher rate. I think that, with the monthly wage rise, the steps to which the tax rates will be changed will also change. It would be reasonable, and it would also be easy for the State Revenue Service to administer it. There is also a need to change the levels of the tax rate, with even lower taxes for low-income workers and higher taxes for high-income earners. I recall that the Working Group on the World Bank has shown three rates that are close to those indicated by the government at the moment, but which are different. The lowest or lowest rate is 19 per cent, but the highest rate is 33 per cent. And there are still two anachronisms in our tax legislation that were born in 2015, the year when the introduction of cool progressivity into our tax system just started. In particular, there is a differential non-taxable minimum and a solidarity tax. That year the executive authority was different... was another government, there were other tax fashion leaders. I think that this government can afford to abandon those inventions, the inventions which I think are very difficult to administer and which are not entirely understandable to the taxpayers. One non-taxable minimum with personal income tax needs to be introduced, which would simply be set as a zero rate income income. And abolish the differentiated non-applicable minimum! I also think that the whole distribution of revenue, which is now laid down in the law on solidarity tax, can be moved to the draft law currently under consideration. Consequently, a law that now has a challenging name - the Solidarity Tax Act - may not be needed anymore. Finally, I think that we are already mature and our State Revenue Service infrastructure has developed so far that the State Revenue Service can independently collect personal income tax from employees, rather than commissioning to do so, as happens now, to state employers. I think that these are the directions that need to be developed to really ensure the reform that we are going on and to achieve even more of what we all want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U231	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U232	Hello, brothers and sisters! This bill is really good. This will contribute to economic development. It is a fair view of an entrepreneur that this tax, which he must pay in advance, is shifted to corporate tax. It leaves the entrepreneur more, so to speak, working capital. This is a really good tax that will promote our economy. Though I believe that we are timid and timid. We were able to deal with these issues well, much more and a lot more. Why? Because, for example, in Germany wages are three times higher than with us, but prices in stores are the same as with us, or sometimes lower. In Germany... What about Germany? In Germany, it costs EUR 1050 for a businessman to pay EUR 1000 to his employee. For our Latvian entrepreneur, in order to pay his employee EUR 1000, it costs as a minimum one and a half thousand. So that with this draft law, we are taking an important step towards entrepreneurship and promoting the economy. I would also like to support what is involved in raising minimum wages. Why? Because if we increase the purchasing power of the population, we increase the turnover in our economy. By increasing turnover in our economy, we first come to VAT well, fix and quickly. Next. We get a good effect from raising the minimum wage. We lay the foundations for returning more than 370 thousand of those who have left to find a livelihood. And these 370 thousand are not only the pain of the Latvian people; these 370 thousand are necessary for our economy to buy our goods here, to develop the economy. A study by the Council of Europe shows that where our fellow countries have gone, the economy has developed, but in the country where its people have gone, the economy has gone down, as it is in our country. And raising the minimum wage to a decent European level will also contribute to an organised work organisation, even as it is in Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U233	The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U234	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that all of us today, both opposition and various other representatives of us, praise this law and that it is the right direction. I have a good memory... about April, when the guidelines were just being drawn up, in discussions on these taxes, where we saw very clearly the features of regression, and my colleagues and I opposed it and said that this is the time when progressivity must be introduced, my colleagues were even called in various interesting words, the most sensitive of which were "blockers of reform" and "back-stops". So I'm so glad that I've managed to connect... perhaps not ideal, but quite close, let us say, to the progressive tax system. I think that here, a number of really good effects could be produced. Most importantly, in order to be able to administer this tax system - the progressive tax system - there will be a need for a general income declaration, which is, in fact, a key issue, so that we can continue to make our tax system equivalent to that in many other Western European countries that we want to be like. I think there are still a lot of steps forward that we can take. One can agree that it is necessary to set uniform rates for all types of income, including dividends, but currently the law “On Personal Income Tax” is so complex, it has become more complicated over time and so complex for various reasons that it is almost impossible to create such a proposal at the moment without creating a new law. I think that either this Saeima or the next one will return to this issue and will create one clear, simple system, perhaps really abandoning progressivity with regard to the non-negotiable minimum and simply introducing a single common zero rate up to a certain threshold and further uniform rates for all types of income - as is the case in many other countries. Unfortunately, this is not possible at the moment. I call for support for what has been done now, and I would really like to thank colleagues - both the Minister of Finance and others - who, with understanding, came up with our proposals and supported them. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U235	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U236	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, as usual, much is done as a matter of urgency - faster, faster! Members do not object, and the law is ready. However, if things are hasty, there is often a brother who has to be changed, and this often takes more time - it is harder to make them than to do a new thing. This is the case with hasty laws. There is much good in the draft laws on taxation, but there is also much to be appreciated and discussed, and that should not be rushed up. On tax reform in general. Let us not deceive ourselves and others with the claim that we will now be setting up a tax system in a hurry and then there will be a stable period of peace for several years! Obviously this is not the case, even for the reason that real estate tax is not included here. It is likely that in a few months' time, we will have to come back to such issues. On this particular draft law. We discussed yesterday in the group: yes, it is good, most things are good here. But, look at paragraph 17 of the bill! It lays down a rule that in future, when calculating income from economic activities subject to personal income tax, a regulatory limit on expenditure from economic activities will be applied. They shall not exceed 80 per cent of the operating income. The wording of the proposed law therefore essentially implies that, irrespective of the actual results of the economic activity - even if there are real losses (the expenditure thus exceeds revenue)! - the minimum rate of personal income tax is set at 20 per cent of the income from economic activities. The determination of such minimum profit rules is economically unfair because it makes the forms of economic activity of full responsibility (i.e. individual economic operators, farmers, natural persons registered as economic operators who are liable for personal income tax) unable to compete with the forms of economic activity of limited liability, thus limited liability companies, which are the taxpayers of corporate income tax. Moreover, in addition to the provision of a minimum profit margin for taxpayers of corporate income, it is not intended to pay income tax also on profits but on undistributed profits. Well, there could also be many other injustices talking about this particular rule. Progressivity here is, of course, a step in the right direction (although the figure is "31.4), to be honest, a little comical - 10?... like this... ), but in general, however, we also concluded in the group that we cannot support this draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U237	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U238	In the Commission, this draft law was supported by a majority. I call on the Saeima to approve this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U239	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U240	The deadline for submitting proposals, as for other draft laws, will be 1 p.m. on 24 July this year. Review at the second, final reading, 27 July this year, at the extraordinary session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U241	Thank you. Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting on 27 July this year. Honourable Members! Members Āboltiņa, Kleinberga, Brigmanis, Zarins and Gaidis Berzins are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima on 21 July this year, without interruption, until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( Milestones.) Do Members have objections? And the objections. All right, let's vote! Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 74, for - 2, for - 1. Consequently, the Saeima sitting is continued without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U242	Colleagues! The draft law also serves as a compensatory mechanism for introducing tax reform and provides for an increase in the tax for a number of groups of excise goods. However, it is stated that a number of increases are of a gradual nature, such as for petrol and diesel. Consequently, these increases have been fixed for three groups of goods. That is, alcoholic beverages (in fact all), tobacco products and oil products. So I call on the Commission to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U243	Mr. Zarins, you wanted to talk about the urgency? No, no. Thank you. Please call me! Mr. Viļuma wanted to be urgent? Too late! Too late! Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U244	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U245	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Well, hold on, Ivar!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U246	Colleagues! Here is the one big hole in which this tax reform will disappear. In a short time we will be sitting here again and talking about tax amendments and all the expectations that were given to entrepreneurs, society, will have gone through this hole, and this hole will be called "degraded roads". So the hole will be both direct and transmitted. For, look, this is the reality at the moment, which has not been taken into account by tax reform. This is one of these growing challenges which are not tackled by this tax reform, and therefore this tax reform will not be valid for anything, it will be changed as a result of the shrinking routes. Because, look at the situation. At present, roads are estimated by the Ministry of Transport itself at 720 million per year. But do you know how real we are? We do not provide even half of this necessary funding. Of this funding, which is being provided - it is about 287 million -, 128 million are currently coming from the European Structural Funds, which will come to an end immediately: they will be learned, they will not be. This means that the hole will remain even bigger. This means that roads will continue to attack even more. And then there will be a simple option for the coalition and, at the same time, for the government, namely either to allow these roads to collapse completely and say: “We will not take care of the roads, Latvia will be a major off-road power.” , or tax changes will have to be made again. And that is why, colleagues, we cannot support such a draft law. And if there is no solution in it, how the roads will be improved, then such a tax reform is - apologies! - a cat under the tail, under the hollow tail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U247	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U248	Dear colleagues, This is one of these Excel's drafts of exercise, which try to artificially recover compensatory measures (and again I can invite you to read the annotation of this draft law!) and does not in any way respond to arguments put forward by different public organisations. I will refer specifically to the increase in excise duty on petrol, diesel and gas. Attention is drawn to the fact that inflation will rise, cost will rise, because we all understand logically that petrol, diesel are actually used for the supply of all goods, services and so on. Passenger transport costs will increase. What is the government's response to this argument? The answer is quite simple: these reservations are not to be taken into account because they will have a negative fiscal impact. Nobody takes into account the fact that, in fact, as fuel expenditure increases in this way, people will simply consume less and the expected effect - almost 25 million expected from excise duty (interim.) additional revenue, in reality there will be no budget at all. More! If you listen to what the Finance Minister says in the last days... If there is indeed a fall in consumption and there is no increase in income, we will review these tax rates. How can you play with the public so easily?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ We’re going to get comfortable now. If we don't get there, we will change our opinion again and our decision." Once again, I draw attention to the urgency of the preparation of this tax package, not analytically, of this package. Once again, this is done without taking into account the interests of society! In addition, particular attention should be paid to the fact that this increase in excise duty will certainly also increase prices, and this is the expected effect that the tax burden on taxpayers will be lower has been blown up by one breath train with such fiscal measures. We do not support such a draft law. I also invite you to get to know what the story actually is before you press the support button.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U249	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U250	On excise duty. There is no doubt that intelligent excise duties are those with a more positive effect than a negative effect. Excise duty should be handled with care and speed. The predictions in the draft law claim that the proposed law is well-thought-out. It seems from the record that it is built only on the basis of the dynamic series, and also on the basis of a very short dynamic series. If this is not the case, how to justify the forecast that the growth rate of alcoholic beverages and beer consumption will be moderate in 2018, but will increase faster in the coming years? Will the population grow rapidly? Will the Middle East refugees be those who will provide this rapid increase? Or will they be the remaining Latvians, who will drown in a glass of their sorrow? Excise duty on alcohol and tobacco must be raised, although this cannot be done indefinitely. This part of the bill should be supported, but excise duty on fuel - it is too dangerous a step. Two years ago, when the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia came forward with a proposal to abolish the vehicle operating tax, while at the same time raising the excise tax on fuel, we heard many votes about reducing Latvia's competitiveness. Now, when excise duty rates for various fuels are offered to be raised by a total of 25 to 30 percent, it turns out that it will increase Latvia's competitiveness. The authors of the draft law have stated in good faith the arguments against raising the rates of excise duty on fuel; I will not read them now, nor have Mrs Silver mentioned them. These arguments must, to a large extent, be accepted. The only opposite argument of the draft law is that there is a great need for money. All this casts doubt on the fact that increasing excise duty on fuel in such an hasty manner would be helpful. Unfortunately, therefore, the whole of the draft law will not be supported by our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U251	Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U252	Colleagues! For my part, I really call for support for this draft law, which provides for an increase in excise duties on alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products and fuel. Why? Because it is indeed one of the essential compensatory measures for tax reform. We have been talking for many years about the fact that we have a high tax burden on labour and it is right to shift the tax burden from labour to capital, consumption and real estate. And then the question is: what are the abstract taxes on capital, consumption and real estate that can be increased if it is not excise? In essence, you have to talk about VAT, real estate and excise duty. These are the main taxes which can in general serve as compensatory measures. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance has proposed, in my opinion, the least painful increase in taxes to compensate for a significant reduction in labour tax. An increase in real estate tax is not proposed, knowing that at present there may indeed be some property that does not pay enough real estate tax in the luxury segment. But it would be insane to offer an increase in taxes in such an unsubstantiated system. Value-added tax, yes, it is an option, but we have gone a different way and have offered solutions for how, by introducing the reverse charge arrangements, we can get more resources to combat the shadow economy without altering the tax rate. And excise duty is a tax that, in my opinion, can not cause economic injury, but generate the necessary resources so that we can afford to ensure a reduction in labour tax and leave people in a lot more money. By increasing tax rates, we have looked very carefully at what the neighbouring countries are doing. Because Lithuania and Estonia do not. There, too, is thinking of how to reduce labour tax, and an increase in excise duty has been made and still planned. The most risky area is, of course, diesel, because even if we increase excise duty on diesel, we will still be far behind the excise rate of Estonia, but we will be slightly above that of Lithuania. Lithuania has however formally declared that it intends to increase the excise duty in principle. And what should be taken into account? That the final price is not determined solely by the proportion of excise duty. Already now, for example, Lithuania has a lower excise duty than Latvia, but fuel prices are the same as Latvia and a few weeks even higher. So unpleasant, but I really call for support for this draft law. As this is an important compensatory measure. We have also counted the impact on the economy. Overall, tax reform next year could provide 0.8 per cent of GDP inflation and 0.4 per cent of inflation in the coming year, taking into account all the effects, both the fact that people will have more resources and consumption, and the increase in individual taxes, which is a very proportionate inflation rate. In this way, GDP will be 2.8 per cent next year, with core inflation still below the medium-term objective of two per cent, which is also essential. We are following, calculating what the impact is, and I think it is balanced.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U253	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U254	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister claims that she is careful at the invoice, the invoice, the invoice. We can see that these bills are still being recalculated. We adopted the budget half a year ago, now we are changing tax rates, including excise duties. I think ministers will come back in six months and say, you know, we calculated that money was missing again, and we have to get up again. We had already decided here in the Saeima to gradually raise excise duties, and businessmen and farmers, and just individuals had already taken note of it. Now, in the middle of the summer, we cross, within two weeks, we accept new rates again and we hope that citizens will see our tax system as predictable. Of course not. By increasing the excise duty on fuel as fast as I do on a person living in the border and driving to buy fuel to Belarus or Russia? I can't blame him. Because he goes there and buys for his needs this fuel, and he at least remains there to live in that border region. And there's that man and there's a territory... the nature of the territory is maintained. What I told you before about another law: that the country is both sovereign power, territory and people. With these changes to the law, we are essentially driving these people out of its borders or driving them out of its own country at all to buy the same fuel. And we condemn them. But when the Estonians come to visit us to buy alcohol at the border, we are happy to say: ‘ Or how nice! There will be additional revenue in the budget!’ Isn't that a duality, ladies and gentlemen? We see, again and again, that there are members of the coalition and, in particular, the members of the opposition, and that every draft law says that there are loopholes, there is a lack of calculations in the law - and so on, and so on. Well, if we've already taken the tax reform here, what's preventing us from meeting another week for the third reading and trying to get even more of its fleas out? Yes, by the way, I used to have my post as a teacher told me that the only work to be done quickly is to catch fleas. We are now adopting tax reform in two readings and without a thorough calculation and justification. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U255	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U256	Dear colleagues, Undoubtedly, all good must also find some compensatory measures. This is what the Ministry of Finance is offering. But we mentioned, and all the previous speakers here mentioned, the concept of fuel. Fuel - these are three components: petrol, diesel and LPG. Undoubtedly, at the current oil prices it... Diesel and petrol in petrol tanks cost much less than it might have been five years ago. Undoubtedly, this is the moment when it is possible to increase excise duty, and people would not suffer much from it. However, I would suggest thinking about the second reading that perhaps this rise for diesel should be proportionately lower than for petrol, because it depends not only on public transport, which we compensate for from the public budget, but not just on road building, which we finance from the public budget, not just on the passenger train... We rejected today because of insufficient compensation... Let's say, in addition... Well, this penalty is extinguishing... And so on. Diesel also provides everything, let us say, supply - food supply and so on. Diesel is also the main source of smuggling entering Latvia. It's not petrol that someone drives a truck into the lighthouse and sells it, but diesel. I do not have these calculations; unfortunately, I will not be able to submit these proposals. But if this tax reform is expected to benefit from the excise duty on petrol of 6.4 million in 2018, but from the tax on diesel of 21 million, maybe some way to change this ratio? In addition, in Western Europe, petrol costs are at least a third more expensive than diesel. We have a much smaller difference. So, I think, if we increase the proportion of petrol and cut down on diesel, it would only benefit our economy and the population as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U257	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U258	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to make it clear that, within the Commission, we also had the question of the order of the roads and the transfer of funds to the roads. Last year's revenue exceeded the forecast of 25 million... A decision was made in advance that they were directed to sort out the roads. It has been decided that, in the future, all revenues that will be above the forecast, or in addition to those on the roads, which currently represent less than 300 million of the national budget and around 75 million of the European Union funds, will be directed towards improving the road situation. Yes, in the Commission we also discussed the fact that, with regard to diesel fuel, the increase could be reduced, because it is expected to be less than six cents per litre in the first year, including VAT, and we compared the prices in neighbouring countries. If this is 0.999 euro with us at the same Circle K service station now, then in Estonia it is one euro 14,7 cent. It was considered necessary to change some proportions, as Mr Matīss mentioned here. It is possible that compensatory mechanisms may still be sought in the excise duty on alcoholic beverages, where there is certainly still a source of resources, at least in the excise duty on beer. So, for the second reading, all the possibilities for tabling proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U259	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 50, it's 30, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U260	Deadline for the submission of proposals - July 24, 13 a.m., examination at the extraordinary session - July 27 a.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U261	Thank you. Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July of this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 27 July of this year at the extraordinary session of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act", first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U262	Dear colleagues, This is probably the draft law that was discussed the longest and most victoriously after the approval of the tax guidelines by the government, because it was obviously one of the reasons why this reform was initiated. What, then, is the current reform of the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act"? The draft law provides that the solidarity tax will be passed on in the amount of one percentage point for health care financing; in the amount of six percentage points – in the accounts of members of the occupational pension scheme, which will form the accumulated funded pension capital of those persons or, if the person is not a member of the occupational pension scheme, in the pension plan of the private pension fund chosen by the person; in the amount of four percentage points – in the pension plan of the private pension fund chosen by the taxpayer. It is planned that solidarity tax in the amount of 10.5 per cent will be paid into the personal income tax distribution account, from which it will be distributed according to the distribution of personal income tax in the state budget and in the budgets of the state worker or self-employed local government according to the conditions of the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. The remaining part of the tax revenue will be allocated to the special budget revenue of the state pensions. The transfer of part of the solidarity tax to personal income tax payments ensures the third degree of progression of the personal income tax rate, while not increasing the labour tax burden on employees. On behalf of the Commission, please establish the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U263	The Commission therefore calls for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. And we are starting a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U264	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! Of course, this draft law is a good step in the right direction: not simply to collect taxes to reduce the overall hole, but somehow to link the taxes paid with the benefits that a person gains from paying taxes. But I would like to draw your attention to one thing with which, because too much has been taken by our coalition partners, I do not fully understand any meaning - either economic or even less fiscal - why a person should be obliged to pay tax on a compulsory basis, these four percentage points, in the private pension fund at the third level. I really do not see any meaning for that. I ask you to think about the second reading because... I also understand the part that is directed to cover health care costs, I understand the part that is attributed to the part that is covered by social insurance from personal income tax, but why is it still the total amount to be paid... It must have been impossible to find where else to put, and then obliged to pay four per cent to a private pension fund manager on a compulsory basis. That's why we support this draft law in that part... It goes without saying that this is a step in the right direction - not just to thirst out holes, but also to benefit a person as a taxpayer. But think of what you're doing. You are impressed - making a person pay compulsory taxes to a private pension fund manager, even though he is currently free - especially if he receives income in excess of EUR 55 000 per year! - to determine, to find opportunities, to figure out, on a voluntary basis, the amount that he will transfer to a private pension fund if he is willing to raise funds in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U265	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U266	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U267	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima. rapporteur, please set a time limit and a time limit for consideration of the proposals at the Saeima sitting! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Klementjev: “Int! As for the first time!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U268	I'm sorry! Deadline for submission of proposals - July 24 at 13.00.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U269	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U270	Review - Parliamentary extraordinary session of 27 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U271	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 13.00 on 24 July this year. Consideration at the parliamentary sitting - 27 July this year at the extraordinary session of the parliamentary session. On the agenda - draft law on corporate income tax, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U272	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima examined the draft Enterprise Income Tax Act prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which includes a large number of new initiatives and changes. I'll list the main ones. Corporate income tax is raised from 15 per cent to 20 per cent respectively by introducing a reinvested profit rate of zero per cent. Relief in free ports and special economic zones is maintained. The tax period is changed from year to month. Consequently, the annual declaration is also cancelled, replaced by simple monthly or quarterly declarations, and advances are cancelled. That's in big trains. The Commission has examined and recognised the draft law in our favour. I call for this to be urgent and then for it to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U273	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on corporate income tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 49, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U274	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Ministry of Finance has prepared a completely new Corporate Tax Law. I hope that the new progressive initiatives it contains will provide the economic breakthrough we want, and our businesses will be more competitive. However, despite the positive aspects contained in this corporate tax regulation, cultural, sporting, charitable and public welfare organisations have welcomed this draft law with great and reasonable concern for their future. Currently, companies are granted a discount of 85 per cent for the payment of corporate income tax, but not more than 20 per cent of the amount of tax due, when donating to organisations that have obtained the status of public benefit organisations. The proposed project, which may have been changed a little now in the public space, but... The proposed project reduces this relief from 85 percent to 30 percent and reduces it from 20 percent to 10 percent. Moreover, it only applies to the part of the tax due when the profits are distributed, thus reducing the aid on several occasions by the State. I know, and we believe that entrepreneurs will still donate, regardless of the amount of the discount, but, with the reduction of discounts and aid on the part of the country, the amount of money that will reach public benefit organisations will drop rapidly. I would like to point out that, even in the years of the deepest crisis, such a possibility and support has always been maintained and has not led to budgetary losses, but simply involved entrepreneurs in supporting public organisations with their capital, and in many cases to ensure that public benefit organisations can carry out the functions entrusted to the State. Last year alone, various organisations in general received around €80 million in donations. Almost half - EUR 36 million - was obtained from the facilities available to public benefit organisations. And even though the Commission has expressed the view of the representative of these organisations that this is not a big sum, it is still EUR 36 million, and for many public benefit organisations it is unfortunately a matter of survival. Together we all have more than an important role to play in the success of these organisations. Thanks to such regulation, there are many well-known organizations, such as the Foundation donating.lv, which helps to raise funds for people in very difficult situations of life, the Association of Latvian SOS Children’s Villages, which cares for children who have not always been luted in by life, the animal group Ulubele, the foundation “Possible Mission” – these are just some of the public benefit organizations that care for our fellow people and our closest friends on a daily basis. The same happens to my heart in the immediate field of sport. Sports federations, when performing the delegated function of the state - to manage sports in the country - ensure that we can be regularly proud of the achievements of our athletes. In sport, public welfare organizations take care of the successful physical development of our children, ensure a variety of healthy movements among the population, as well as help our most powerful athletes to achieve the highest success. In life, I think it's right that if you do something good, you get a prize for it. At the moment, the opposite happens, because in parallel with the great results and achievements in sport in the world, in parallel with the excellent work carried out by charitable organisations, taking care of those most in need, the other hand simply removes the possibility of ensuring further growth and development. And it would only be fair that such bear boys and girls (Sitting Manager knocked out with a hammer.) Let us say, in the fight for the Grand Slam titles or the world's highest achievements in sport, or in the care of the people who are in distress, as well as our four-legged friends and, ultimately, our children, who have not always been lavished by life, we would give with us one decent fishing rod, not even money, but fishing rods, with which to feed ourselves and improve everyday life with us. I know that the new solutions proposed by the Ministry of Finance in the public space are a step in this direction. But, colleagues, they are still much worse than the current situation. The question is, what kind of signal do we send to the public? I want it to sound like this: do good, and we will support you. Let us appreciate it and let us not destroy positive developments! For example, when athletes return with medals in their neck (also from among many of us), we greet them on Twitter and try to take a picture of them, say good words to charitable organizations and acknowledge their performance, but when they ask for help, we turn our backs. I invite you to support the progress of the draft law, but at second reading I call for an in-depth assessment of the proposed solutions and to return the amount of aid to the current level, because the invested funding in sport, culture and charitable organisations returns to the economy with multiple higher returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U275	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U276	Dear colleagues, I have already had the opportunity to increase this draft law, this idea and the regulatory legislation that we are now looking at and will probably support. That must have been the case for a long time. However, the draft law contains several white spots, just two. Unfortunately, we do not have much time to discuss this in three readings that would be very wise. We have actually decided to return to these draft laws later, perhaps in the autumn, perhaps even later, when the draft laws have already been submitted for the next year's budget, but in the circumstances - only the main claims that I would like to make here. First of all, it must be said that there is no solution to ensure that profits generated by companies are indeed reinvested rather than accumulated in bank accounts and invested in non-core assets such as foreign real estate. The same problem exists in Estonia, and experts from the World Bank have also spoken about it. The solution to solve this problem completely is not easy to formulate. Once again, it should be seen in different commissions, in different sittings. However, taking into account the experience of Estonia, it would be possible to propose a solution to ensure that companies do not at least invest accumulated profits in housing and foreign real and movable property. Therefore, I would suggest that point 5 of the second paragraph of Article 8 of the draft law be read as follows: ‘In addition to expenditure not related to economic activities, all expenses not directly related to the economic activity of the taxable person, including the purchase of real and movable property registered abroad (excluding representative cars) and the purchase of residential property and other residential property registered in Latvia, which have been acquired from 1 January of the following year and the maintenance of those assets, as well as the purchase of assets acquired from 1 January of the following year and which are used for purposes other than the provision of the principal activity of the undertaking, and the maintenance of those assets.’ If we really want our entrepreneurs to be motivated to invest in their growth, in the development of their own company, then the fences must be raised, so that we can do that. And the second recommendation relates to the fact that the draft law still provides credit institutions with benefits in respect of offshore payments. Interest payments to offshores shall be subject to tax at a rate of 15 per cent, but credit institutions may tax only at a rate of five per cent. Such advantages must be eliminated. Therefore, in the seventh paragraph of Article 5 of the draft law it must be stipulated that, notwithstanding any provisions of this Law, corporate income tax shall be deducted from payments to legal, natural and other persons located in low-tax and non-taxed countries, including payments to representatives of such persons or payments to third party bank accounts and payments made in the form of mutual settlements: from interest payments – 15 per cent, from payments on intellectual property – also 15 per cent. Consequently, the five-interest rate should be deleted from this Article. The exemption of undistributed profits from a company will provide an incentive for the company to grow if the law blocks all possibilities to narrow the tax base and if the law itself does not restrict it for unknown reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U277	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U278	Good afternoon, third time! Another good law for our economy. And it is precisely this transfer of salary tax to UIN that is one very good thing in my view that would encourage our business and I think it would also introduce a good thing in our budget, because for this moment 96 percent of the budget revenue is provided by four percent of Latvian companies. This is not particularly good, because we depend on only four percent of Latvian companies. But my view is that these changes from the IIN to the UIN should be done in a much more drastic way. As an example, I took the numbers of 2016 and calculated what would happen if we reduced the IIN by 15 percent and UIN by 35 percent. In principle, we do not affect the burden on business, on business, and we do not, in principle, affect the burden on the budget. But where is the positive effect of this issue? We are getting from the business environment that we have been lobbying for a long time, to which we have entrusted our entrepreneurs and our citizens five billion. In fact, if we implement the proposals that I have just said, we will resolve the issue of nurses, because the business environment that we have been well-defiled and to which we have entrusted five billion is worth 400 million a year. And if we raised this 20 percent profit, we would get 80 million needed by our nurses. What else do I want to say in relation to corporate tax? At the moment, this tax reform has not finally affected one of the essential things that have been "lost out in translation" or where, I do not know. We have always spoken, but nothing has been done to improve it. Our municipalities are not interested in business on their territory. And I hope that if we were to significantly shift the IIN to UIN and some kind of contribution from this UIN would also be made to the municipalities, it would be an incentive for the municipalities to create more and more businesses and to promote economic development on their territory. Last thing I want to say to all Members. Economic development is the only way to tackle public functions. I very much ask everyone to be united and come with their proposals. Let us be united! Let's think! Let us put our heads together and think about how we will promote the economy, how we will create new jobs. Let us be good hosts in our homeland!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U279	Name to Member Andris Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U280	Colleagues! As regards charitable organisations. I hope, however, that we will find some less or more sensible compromises. Otherwise, I think that this sector we are so successful with these reforms, which are currently intended... We're just going to destroy that sector. We will then be able to laugh and say that is what the country needed. At the end of the reforms... Anyway, I have the right to speak, because I've been running a public organization for 27 years. What does that mean and how disgusting and disgusting is sometimes to be rich... but thanks to God, being rich for another, it is still possible. But if we take that opportunity... The mass of money is already falling, and I do not know how it can be compensated. And those people who think that something needs to be taken away today, I think they are deeply wrong and really haven't experienced many such problems in life. If Europe has now taken money away from public organisations... it is mostly minimal. If international organisations have said: “You know, we're leaving” and only a small part of international organisations from which it would be possible to obtain funding here on the ground, provided that there is a need for co-financing... There will be no co-financing, neither will there be any action. Of course, we can view ourselves as honest, as less honest, and as young bulls. But we want to look at the guys all the time. Perhaps we will look at those who work less or more normally and well. Has anyone assessed the contribution of public organisations to the further development of society in general? How many have they given, what has been... We're just looking at the money. Yes! This money is very important to the public organisation. And it's the only source from which it can get this money. Furthermore, let us take into account that the money we are talking about, about those percentages at the moment, is not already guaranteed. Each organization goes and fights more so that they can, let us say, bring along the one who has been given the opportunity to donate. It's a pity that we don't have mecetaism in Latvia. None! If we could talk about the fact that we in Latvia have mecenaticism and unselfish people... Someone would say, well, there's some part... There are people who individually... in some way, trying to give this funding... Yeah, it would be different. Yes, if they are not interested in making donations, they will have some relief, then they will not. That is why I will, of course, be voting in favour at first reading for the time being. However, I very much hope that we will find a compromise by joint efforts, because it will hardly replace the economy-based money with the joint action of public organisations. Thank you. I hope we understand each other.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U281	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U282	Colleagues! With regard to the problem of donations to public benefit organisations, which was exacerbated by both Jānis Upenieks and Andris Bērziņš, I will refer again to what Inguna Silver has said in connection with the solidarity tax. Why four percent of private funds... Is that so? At this moment, I really do not have the answer to that question. And if there's no good answer, I'd suggest you think... Then better these four or... How many percent were there? allow donations to public benefit organisations rather than private funds. Of course, I am not saying that this would solve the issue, the whole problem that both gentlemen have spoken about. At first, I think it's interesting, but maybe I don't know anything. Sometimes it's like, the more you learn, the more foolish you stay. But now I ask you to think about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U283	Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U284	Thank you, colleagues, for the discussions in the context of this draft law. This, I must say, is the most complex of the draft laws, because corporate tax arrangements change completely. At first it seems: yes, we want a zero rate of interest on the reinvested income tax, because it is in Estonia, it is working well. But when you start to work on that matter and to draw up a bill, you realize that the iceberg is huge, and at first you see only the top of that iceberg. The more we work, the more nuances we find. There are, of course, two things that have been difficult to do with the drafting of the law, but I think at least an initial solution is proposed, and it is still possible to improve it. There are really two things. Norms against tax evasion, which Mr Pimenova spoke about. We have already learned a lot from Estonia, and several things have been taken into account in our draft law, for example, by taxing loan capital in situations where subsidiaries lend to parent companies abroad. We have left but have nevertheless restricted the holding regime to prevent tax evasion, but we will be happy with the new proposals, because for my part, I see some risks here that should definitely still be prevented. For donations. Yes, this is a difficult issue because it should be taken into account that the current rules provide for a corporate tax credit on profits, and the company can use it when donating to public benefit organisations. However, there is a problem with the new regime because we want to motivate companies to distribute profits or dividends less frequently, so that the tax payable will probably be less available. And it is also important to offer some solutions for public benefit organisations at times when a company works with profit but does not distribute profits so that companies have the opportunity to donate. Therefore, three models were proposed instead of the old regime. It will be possible to donate by receiving a tax credit as part of profits if profits are made but are not distributed. Currently, the draft law provides that if 10 per cent of the profits are shifted to public benefit organisations, this part of the profits will not be subject to corporate tax. Seeing that there are situations where a company is working at a loss, but still willing to donate, the following solution is proposed: an amount of three per cent of the wage bill, for which labour taxes have already been paid, can be diverted to donation. And the third case. A part of corporate tax can also be diverted to donation with tax relief. And this third option is something on which we now have to find a compromise. For our part, we are also doing this - meeting with non-governmental organisations to find the most appropriate solution. What is extremely important? If we are currently focusing very much on one of the donation models - a discount, applying it from the profit tax... In fact, we should not forget, and we should also tell the business community that there will be two more great opportunities to donate what has not been in the past. There are several companies that have admitted: yes, the new regime is even better, because if they so far wanted to donate without distributing profits, without paying corporate tax, it was not good for them because they had to pay tax for this donation. On the other hand, the new scheme will also provide for the possibility of making undistributed contributions and will not be subject to corporate tax. Let's find a compromise. We heard it. Because the non-governmental sector is, of course, worried. Neither can we accurately predict changes in the behaviour of entrepreneurs. But we have agreed that we will hold our hand on the pulse and look at it in the next year. For their part, too, they will talk to their donors, who of the models are the most attractive so that further adjustments can be made if necessary. Thank you, and I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U285	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U286	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U287	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on corporate income tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U288	Deadline for the submission of proposals - July 24 at 13.00, and consideration at second reading - July 27th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U289	Thank you. Proposals must be submitted by 1 p.m. on 24 July of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - at the extraordinary session of the Saeima on 27 July of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U290	Dear colleagues, We can see the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act”. And, as was also recognised by the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax), the Microbusiness Tax Act has had a very positive impact on economic growth, but analysis also shows a number of identified problems that need to be addressed by improving the legal framework. Consequently, amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act have been prepared, providing for two main changes. One is to reduce the turnover threshold from 100 thousand euros to 40 thousand euros, and the other is to ensure that 80 per cent of the micro-enterprises tax paid to the state budget by micro-enterprises will be passed on to the state social insurance contribution account. There were discussions in the Commission, so proposals are likely to be expected for the second reading. But at the moment, I call for urgent support and support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U291	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 29, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U292	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 24 July at 13.00 and second reading - 27 July at the extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U293	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 13.00 on 24 July this year. Review - 27 July this year in Parliament's extraordinary session. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the Saeima has been examined. Thank you to Members for their work. Thank you to the Prime Minister and Minister for Finance. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U294	Colleagues! Communication to the members of the Social and Labour Commission The Social and Labour Commission has only so much time to get to... No, no! No!” ) After... ( Interface: “The extraordinary sitting will then be! ” ) After the extraordinary session... Well, that's okay. I will take the opportunity to say before the sitting. At the end of the extraordinary part-session, five minutes later... Please! Meeting of the Commission at the premises of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs The representatives of the ministries await us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U295	Thank you. Name to the Secretary of the Saeima for communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U296	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Ringolds Balodis, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Jānis Kžads, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Sergejs Mirskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Andris Siliņš, Julija Stepanenko and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-07-21-PT12-431-U297	Thank you. On 21 July, I closed the extraordinary session. I would remind you that at 5 p.m., we will open the second extraordinary session of July 21.
