ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in Saeima's meeting room so that we can start the last sitting of the 2017 autumn session. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Panel requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and include the Member Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Igora Pimenova, Andra Morozova, Jūlija Stepanenko, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Mirska and Vital Orlova's request to the Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis "On the procedure for service proceedings before the public administration in relation to the missing documents of the Ministry of Economic Affairs". Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the approval of Karina Kravecs as a district (city) court judge” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the draft decision “On the appointment of Kristīne Evertovska as a judge of a district (city) court” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Fisheries Act” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Aleksejs Loskutovs, Lolita Čigāne, Romualds Ražuks, Hosams Abu Meri, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere and Laimdota Straujuma are asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Meliorisation” be submitted to the Legal Commission, as well as to the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Legal Commission, as well as to the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Insurance Contract Law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Fisheries presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member, Aleksejs Loskutova, Lolitas Čigāne, Romualda Gaukuka, Hosama Abu Meri, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere and Laimdota Straujuma be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Alexei Loskutov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! Amendment to the Law on Patients' Rights is designed to promote the protection of patients' rights. At present, the Patient Law provides that each of us, every person, has the right to informed treatment. In particular, the doctor is obliged to inform every person, every patient, about his or her illness, about his or her treatment in general, and about his or her treatment methods. The law also provides that the patient is entitled, when entering a medical establishment, to determine who is the person authorised by him to decide if a person is unable to make a decision on his own, either because he is unconscious or under the influence of anaesthesia or because of age problems. If a person has not made such an authorisation when taking up medical care, the decision may be taken by his/her spouse or close relative in accordance with the law. In order to enable people to determine the authority before health problems begin, because injury or serious illness can deprive a person of any authority at all, we propose to amend the Patient Law (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) ... We propose to amend the Law on Patients by providing for the possibility for any of us, any member of society, to mark the E-Health portal in advance and to determine who is authorised, because in a difficult situation a person may not have the opportunity to express an authorisation. Given that this amendment, the proposal is indeed aimed at promoting the protection of patients' rights, I call, colleagues, on this amendment to support and refer the draft law to the Social and Labour Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Ringold Balodis on 20 and 21 December this year. The Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from Member Ringolds Baloža requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 20 and 21 December of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Honourable Members! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to make changes to the agenda of the meeting and to consider draft law “Amendments to the Fisheries Law” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Bureaus” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On the approval of Karina Kravecs as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 20 December this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Karina Kravecs as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. On 7 March 2013, the Saeima appointed Karina Kraveva, who was born on 10 December 1979, as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered Karina Kravecs to perform the duties of a judge in the Riga City Centre district court. Currently, judge Karina Kravecs performs the duties of a judge in Riga City Vidzeme suburb court. The judge Karina Kraveks will have served as a judge for three years on 15 February 2018. In order to improve her qualification, the judge has participated in 11 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia. The judge considers civil cases with specialization claims arising from family law; claims arising from the rights of obligations, as well as other categories of civil cases which are not assigned to other judges by specialisation; administrative infringement cases; complaints about decisions in cases of administrative offences; as well as the duties of the investigating judge. The work of the judge received positive feedback from the Chair of Riga city Vidzeme suburb court, Riga regional court board of Civil Cases, Riga regional court college of Criminal Court. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of Karina Kravecs, a judge of the Riga city Vidzeme suburb court, and has given a positive opinion to Karina Kravecs, a judge of the Riga city Vidzeme suburb, for approval without any limitation of the term of office. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Karina Kraveks to approve Karina Kraveks as a judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U5	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U6	Thank you for the point on the agenda. It wasn't yet. I think it's gonna be so quiet... What do I want to say about you? There's no Nagornosol women's dive! Well, don't hurt me! Women have given me six children. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Well, don’t hurt, please, if! And next. I have sent my proposals to all of you, including those who are very critical of me, what needs to be done to ensure that the people are entrusted with the rule of law. Why has nobody answered? Why aren't you interested? Why has no one even criticised? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “About the question!” ) Why do you want to... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosols speaks without a microphone.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U7	Mr. Nunozol! The agenda shall include a specific draft decision. I call for the draft decision to be discussed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U8	... points out that he is not the best. That this is not the best lawyer, it is not the most experienced in life. Well, we're putting that justice system in order! It's not Nanozol who hates women, but the people say there's no order. Not only citizens, but also the press. Many believe that they are not (interfaces.) I've got our justice power right now. That's enough of this joke... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosols speaks without a microphone.)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U9	Mr. Nunozol! On the agenda is a specific draft decision – “On approval of Karina Kravecs as a judge of a district (city) court”. I call for the draft decision to be discussed or for the debate to be suspended. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “So what must you do: for or against?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Karina Kravecs as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Kristīne Evertovska as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U10	On December 20, the draft decision “On the appointment of Kristīne Evertovska as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima. To the candidates. Kristīne Evertovska was born on November 8, 1973. She obtained the qualification of a lawyer, and according to the decision of the Academic Information Centre the qualification of a lawyer was equivalent to a professional master degree and a fifth level professional qualification. Kristīne Evertovska, as a candidate for the position of judge, worked from 27 February 2017 until 26 October 2017. Until now, Kristīne Evertoska has worked in the Legal Section of the State Revenue Service’s Excise Goods Office as the principal lawyer, vice-chairman, as well as as as the Head of the Legal and Methodical Support Section, the Deputy Head of the Excise Goods Movement Section. A positive response from the Chair of Riga District Court has been received. The reference indicates that candidates prepared various types of draft decisions in civil, criminal and administrative matters, as well as drafts of decisions in competence of investigation judges. Prepared rulings are motivated, properly applied material and procedural law norms, also referring to case-law. The report of the College of Civil Cases of the Riga Regional Court indicates that Kristīne Evertovska has good knowledge of legal norms, has performed the assigned work thoroughly and with responsibility. The Chair of the Committee on Criminal Cases of Riga Regional Court has indicated in his statement that a candidate for the position of a judge can successfully perform the duties of a judge. The statement of the Director of the Department of Supervision of the Legal System of the Ministry of Justice indicates that a candidate for the position of a judge may successfully perform the duties of a judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee gives a positive opinion for the appointment of Kristīne Evertovska as a judge of a district (city) court. In view of the above, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Kristīne Evertoska to appoint a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Kristīne Evertovska as a judge of district (city) court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U13	The next item is the examination of parliamentary requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board’. On the agenda - Members Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Igora Pimenova, Andra Morozova, Julia Stepanenko, Raimonda Rubika, Sergey Mirska and Vital Orlovas apply to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the procedure of service record keeping in the public administration regarding missing documents of the Ministry of Economic Affairs”. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U14	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission examined the request made by Members Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina and the other said Members to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the procedure for service record keeping in the public administration in relation to the missing documents of inspection of the Ministry of Economics”. The referral commission had a discussion on this subject and, in general, Members found that this topic was not, by its very nature, within the remit of the Request Commission. If there are facts that the documents have disappeared and the concealment of these documents has been covered by the Ministry of Economics, it is better to say, the officials of the ministry... Applicants were advised to contact the law enforcement authorities to discuss the nature of this request and the facts at their disposal. Consequently, the specific claim was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U15	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U16	Hello, colleagues! This request is in line with the decisions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs concerning authorisations for the sale of electricity produced in the framework of compulsory procurement. We came to this request by analysing the documents submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to us in connection with possible cases of fraud detected by TV3 journalists. It turned out that some of the companies that had been caught by journalists with possible fraud had been issued with these decisions during the period for which the Ministry of Economics had carried out a service inspection. We asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to submit the results of a service test to get acquainted with these decisions, to which the Ministry of Economics replied that it did not have such results at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “It’s not true! Don’t lie, please!” ) And then we asked for clarification as to how it is possible that such results could disappear in the ministry. Public administration?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the national regulatory authority takes a decision on the verification of the service. This service test... we see, after correspondence from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that this has really happened. A special commission has been set up. This commission has worked. Not one month. There is even an interim report, and the Commission has asked for the deadlines to be extended because it is necessary to continue working. Then there is a request that... Finally, an important opinion from the legal office has been received. More than 5000 lats have been spent on this opinion of the legal office. Process... And in this place, the process runs round. There are no more documents. The Ministry of Economics tried to tell us that there was no result in fact either, you know. After all this story! Well, there's no result! And don't get it from the Ministry of Economics. What makes us concerned about this whole story, and why did we make this request? In principle, such an order of things is another proof that the Ministry of Economics has, in fact, played an active part in this possible fraud with its own decisions and with its activities, which it is now trying to hide. What further evidence of this is there of the shadow of additional suspicion and of the reason why this matter should be investigated by the relevant authorities? The fact that the Ministry of Economics had initiated a disciplinary action following this alleged failure of the service, which had no results. And the disciplinary case was once brought against the official who made these decisions. The subject-matter of the specific disciplinary action concerned the fact that the legal opinion in the course of the examination of this service was ordered in order to examine these decisions... this state official had tried to influence this task... to create a conflict of interest for the job-makers. In particular, the legal office, which was asked to assess the merits of the decisions, was required to be composed by those who took those decisions. And although there was a clear conflict of interests and the recipients of the task pointed out this, the State Secretary Juris Pūce still insisted that it is precisely these people who are in a clear conflict of interests who have to create this task. As a result... we've got information... The opinion providers indicated that, in principle, they would not be able to produce an objective assessment of these decisions. While discussing all these facts, the Minister for Economics was also informed of the opinion delivered by the State Chancellery, which found that this was indeed the competence of the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry should deal with this and make all of it clear. This is an obligation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which it has not fulfilled so far. The question is, what are the objectives in terms of why it is interested in concealing what has actually happened to these decisions? More! What we see is the Ministry of Economics, in principle... This request marks the action profile of the Ministry of Economics - how it operates in this OIC area. So, realizing that simply hiding everything will not work, completely ignoring it will not work, is simulated by the right action. And in this case, this seems to be the right thing to do... Then they asked the members of the commission where this service report had disappeared. But when they ask, they are only members of the commission who are no longer in public administration. Thus, they are individuals from whom they may also not receive a response. On the other hand, those members of the Commission who are still in the public administration and should provide these answers are not asked. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “It was said to you that the question is!” ) So the question... ( Internouncing call.) There are no such documents at our disposal. Those documents which have been submitted... Only a question has been asked to Paviluts - what the results are - and to the committee's chair. In turn, the Ministry of Economics had not added such an application to those who are members of the Commission and are still working for the State administration. We are just talking about the facts, Mr. Spolish. In a very similar way, the Ministry of Economics has dealt with the examination of decisions in real, physical terms. The Ministry widely announced yesterday in the mass media that 39 companies had been tested. Many have been granted aid under these decisions at this very time, and only three of them have been withdrawn, the authorisations have been withdrawn, even though none of them qualifies for the signs they referred to. None of these permit conditions have been fulfilled, which means that the correct report of the Ministry of Economics on this inspection should have been that we will still cover 36 of the 39 companies. Let's continue to cover up. Instead of responding to the essence of what he would do and what his position was in relation to this, he simply invited his Legal Department and offered to the Commission a pointless discussion about whether the documents had disappeared or never existed, and about what the legally correct wording was, when it was all about, and thus made the work of the committee completely pointless. This strengthened our conviction that the Ministry of Economics is actually interested in hiding the truth. This leads to a reasonable suspicion that the Ministry of Economy has been involved in all these cases of fraud. We will continue to investigate all this and prepare future requests to give the public the opportunity to know how it has actually been directed and covered and who should be responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U17	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U18	Good morning, colleagues! Today the figure is 26. In particular, Brigmanis has rejected 26 requests. And no longer does it matter whether we are talking about the decision of the State Revenue Service on new cash registers (the question was why new cash registers were needed). It is no longer important here whether we are talking about a Latvian citizen of 33 children who have been taken out of their families in England or Ireland. It is no longer important here whether we are talking about the work of the Research Commission of the Public Security Committee. It is no longer important here whether we are talking about some stolen or missing documents from the Ministry of Economics. That doesn't matter! It is important that there is a Panel on Requests that performs the buffer function so that none of these issues can be considered! I thank all the Members who have signed - I hope they have signed! - this request for the closure of the Request Commission. Brigman, what you said last time from this platform... These signatures have been collected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “On the case, please!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U19	On the request! On the specific request!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U20	... A lot of then we're going to talk here now...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U21	Turn off the microphone for the Member of the Neighbours. Thank you. The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U22	Good morning, colleagues! Talking about the thing. I thank Mr Zarins for his insistence and for his determination to find answers to these knotted questions that have taken place in the Ministry of Economic Affairs over the last 12 years. There is a difference between your message, where there was a lot of lies (not to say more), because if you... I, too, attended this meeting of the Petitions Commission and your questions were answered. The documents have been submitted to you by the Ministry of Economics. The Head of the Administration of the Ministry of Economics told you exactly that there were no such documents in the records. So make sure that the document was or was not - it is already a task for the police and the law enforcement authorities. So I wish you to turn to the law enforcement authorities to deal with these issues. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U23	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leijs: “Zarin, speak the truth!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U24	Mr. Spolitis, I call on you to answer for your words, come here and tell you concrete facts from all the words... Which of all the things I said was a lie, because I am talking only about concrete, factually verifiable cases and only about the framework of the documents submitted by the Ministry of Economics and I do not close the assumptions, I do not believe in the stories that the Ministry of Economics said that they have spoken and that they have proved that they do not exist. I showed you exactly what they have done in accordance with the documents. According to the documents, they have asked only two members of the Commission - Pavļutas and the head of the Commission Buvidas, who are no longer in the public administration. However, there were no such documents and no replies. That this will be investigated by the relevant competent authorities, I also notify the Commission of the request, stating that if the Ministry of Economics fails to provide those answers and could not reasonably say that it has done everything to clarify how the OIC took place (Dep. V.Spolitis: “It is a task of the police, not a task of the ministry!” ), these decisions, then we will have to go to the appropriate competent authorities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Do it!” ) But we generously gave the Ministry of Economics an opportunity to come and tell, to show their position honestly. We know the answers in principle. We also know what the culuars are talking about, why these results of the service investigation have disappeared, but I do not want to do anything. It is known (cluarily speaking) that it was an agreement between certain officials, so that these documents do not appear anywhere. But we don't have that proof, so I don't talk about it here. We proposed to the Ministry of Economic Affairs that it show and that it prove that it has done everything possible to find out why these documents have disappeared and whether or not they have actually arisen. The Ministry of Economics has demonstrated that it is simply trying to cover up and does not want to clarify all this. Despite the thousands of taxpayers' money spent as part of this inspection, the Ministry does not care. It's not interested. Why not? A well-founded question. And if we divide these decisions, then we will be clear about what is going on. This is just one page from the OIC, which has been politically covered and implemented all these years. We'll find it. We will prove who is responsible for what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U25	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U26	Thank you once again, Mr Zarins, for your ambition, but this last setting and request looks more like a Balagan, because, as you yourself have just said, you are convinced that the document exists. Yesterday, the Minister of Economics and the Head of Administration of Jaunzems made it very clear to you: “In the case of electronics, IT specialists have not found, there is no document in the record-keeping paper to confirm your assumption of the existence of a document.” So if you want to make sure that this document exists, you have to turn to the police for a comprehensive investigation. The Minister for Economics has also told you yesterday. So, please, do not deceive colleagues in the Saeima and call on others to reject this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U27	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U28	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia will vote in favour of this request. At the same time, however, I must point out that the very content of the request and the wording of the request are such that it is a bit difficult to vote in favour, because in this case more requests are made. Documents are either submitted if they were... And one of the documents most interested in the request has not been submitted, on the pretext that there is no one. ( Internouncing call.) There are, of course, many questions about the process as a whole. This request was addressed to Mr Kučinski, but Mr Kučinski did not come to the Request Commission. Mr Asheraden was delegated last week, but he could not come too - was sick or who was there. Mr Reira, who was next in this hierarchy, could not come either. All this went through. This demonstrated both the government as a whole and the failure of the responsible ministry to respond specifically to the question or request asked. Finally. Should an investigation now be carried out to find this document? Because the order that we were told in the Commission shows that everything was done to make this document work. Then there is the question: either it is really something that has been specially squandered, or the official concerned has to be punished for not fulfilling his task. It was asked that this particular document should be available, but at the end of the day it was not available. At the same time, I think... Now, when we talk about finding a scapegoat in this particular case, I think we deviate a little from the basic problem - from this OIC as a whole. I think that, even after the New Year, when we come to the next part-session, we must certainly all pay attention to this whole process together. And if necessary, then really new requests will also have to be made. However, as I said at the beginning, there must be a specific request (for example, for the resignation of the minister responsible or of a particular minister), and then we will also be able to vote here, in the Saeima, whether or not to support the particular request. Then there is a clear demand. Or another case: if there is any request for specific action that we demand from, either the government or the relevant minister: what we demand from and what we need from this responsible person. In this case, as I said at the outset, there is a slightly unclear form of the question... Initial requests for documents have been partly met, but one document has unfortunately disappeared. As I said, the Latvian Association of Regions will support this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U29	I closed the debate. Is there something to be added on behalf of the Request Commission? Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Igora Pimenova, Andra Morozova, Julia Stepanenko, Raimonda Rubika, Sergey Mirska and Vital Orlova's request to the Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis "On the procedure of service proceedings before the public administration in relation to the missing documents of the Ministry of Economic Affairs"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 50, for - 1. The request is rejected. On the agenda - Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of Public Persons”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U30	Dear colleagues, This draft law is closely linked to the Social Enterprise Law and prepared for the third reading. In preparing the draft law for third reading, the Commission has not received any proposal. Nor have the proposals been made themselves. The Commission calls for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of Public Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members Jansons, Sergeants, Cilinskis, Snore and Dombrava are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include in it the draft law “On publicising the documents of the former State Security Committee and lightening the system of power of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the law “On publicising the documents of the former State Security Committee and lighting the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 22, for - 2. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been changed and included in the draft law. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Credit Register Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U32	Good morning, colleagues! We have been precise enough for the second reading with this bill, and we have not received any proposals for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at third, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on the Credit Register Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep Ones of the Land”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U34	Good morning, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We work with amendments to the law “On Land Deeps” (No 1076/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has received and developed nine proposals for this draft law. 1 and the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, who was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U36	2. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Eglita, who has been partly supported and included in the Commission 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U37	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U38	3. is a proposal from the commission responsible, which has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U40	Proposal by Arville Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs and Economic Affairs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U42	The Commission had a discussion on the fifth motion tabled by Mr Boķ. This is linked to the duration of the geological study and also to the environmental impact assessment. This is a rather well-founded proposal. But we agreed to the third reading... This is a rather substantial change in the time frame within which geological research is to be carried out on specific cases. We agreed that working groups would be discussed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and then maybe this would be led as a separate proposal. It was therefore not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U43	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U44	6. is the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Eglita, who has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U46	7 and the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U48	8. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Eglita. The Commission has partially supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U50	Finally, 9 is the Commission's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U52	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Request to support the draft law at third reading
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U53	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep of the Land”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the status of the Second World War”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Walter Dambe.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U54	President of the Saeima. Members! We see the draft law “On the status of a member of the Second World War” in the third, final, reading. 18 proposals have been received. 1. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U55	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U56	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, The aim of my proposal is to do everything possible at third reading in order to improve as much as possible the draft law presented and to be seen and to resolve the really growing problems of relations with the Veterans of the Second World War. The draft law adopted at second reading is one-sided. I would also like to add that, by declaring equal treatment for war veterans, the draft law nevertheless treats them in an unequal and challenging wrongful way one group of members of the war among all. The status of the non-citizen as a Latvian person has been challengingly weakened, and the draft law prevents the possibility of obtaining the status of the Second World War participant for a large group of veterans of the Red Army. The draft law divides the citizens, the members of the Second World War, into two groups: those that the draft law recognises as members of the Second World War and those that are not recognised as such. As a result, citizens who become natural are placed in a second-class group of citizens. It is a clear and challenging contradiction with the content and spirit of the uniform citizenship included in Latvian legislation. The draft law was co-ordinated only with the list of deliberately highlighted associations and not with all. No address was received from the Veterans Society of the Red Army. Contrary to the purpose of the law, namely to promote equal treatment between the members of the Second World War, the new laws divide them even more than in the islands and increase bitterness in society. 130. The invitation of the Latvian Men's Corps and the Latvian Partisan Brain Veterans Society to listen to their arguments about this draft law in the Commission was not heard. Although the letter was distributed to the members of the commission, it was not attached to the documents when the draft law was reviewed at second and third readings. That is why I will allow them to quote the letter they sent to the Members of the Saeima. They write: “We believe that the draft law has been re-politicised and that only one political orientation organisation and its members are involved in drafting and adopting it. All this is not in line with the idea and initiative of the former President of Latvia Andris Bērziņš. The main thing in the project is material and social assistance. The draft law does not serve the cohesion of society; on the contrary, it does not work. The concept of a war actor in the project is very narrow. We have always existed and exist because members of the Second World War must be part of the Soviet partisans, including their spies and associates, as well as those veterans who acquired Latvian citizenship after 17 June 1940. The law, however, is intended for the participants of the war, not for a narrow, selected group. We remind you that in the fight against German fascist occupations, more than 20 000 people were involved in the Latvian partisan movement, which, at the risk of their lives, contributed to the defeat of chitleric Germany. For this version 130. The Latvian strife corps and the Latvian Partisan Brigade Veterans Society cannot agree and will invite their former members of the Soviet army not to participate in the event.” I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the veterans are outrageous that the government and the authorities are finding the means to keep additional officials in the public authorities in order to maintain the implementation of this draft law, but are not finding the means to really provide social assistance to those who have survived to this day. There's a story about it. They conclude that it would be more natural to allocate funds to war veterans, who need them very much, rather than to feed bureaucracy. In our view, even 10 percent of the amount needed to enforce the law would be sufficient. And by decision of the Saeima or the government, it could be given to the Veterans associations, indicating that the money should only be spent on the Veterans - material aid. In order to avoid all these contradictions that I have listed, I am asking for my proposal to support and ensure both the extension and fairer treatment of the veterans - the guarantee of social assistance for all who took part in the Second World War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U57	Mr. Pimenov, thank you. I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U58	Commissioner Pimenova's proposal was not supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: Thank God!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 61, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U60	The proposal was received from the Member Ilmars Latkovska and received no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U61	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U62	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Members who support my proposal and who would like to support it, but cannot support it. I know they are. Listen to me. I understand that sometimes we have to adopt pointless proposals and draft laws, because on the way out of the wheels everything goes out. My proposal is that this law should not only call for cohesion and labelling, but really also social assistance. In fact, it was a shame to return to this draft law. Five years ago, we buried it in the Saeima. Shame on those old soldiers. How can you take this and do nothing meaningful? I'll remind you. Five years ago, social assistance was very pronounced in the draft law, it was first, although at first we really talked about reconciliation and cohesion, but it remained in the background. If we're talking about cohesion and reconciliation... That's not the old men we're going to take together now, no matter what the boys are. It is already about future generations, namely, how we look at these old men who were in war and how much we want to help them. Well, they don't think so much today! Marks. Now it's an amplification like one of the old soldiers I'm talking to. It seems to me that this situation is very marked by an example I experienced in the Cemetery of Leschen Brothers five or four years ago. It was a memorial event where the pastor very harshly criticised the draft law and President Berzin, who had led it, and said: “There can be no reconciliation with evil.” I mean, what do you mean? Now Latvians against Latvians. In fact, the draft law also applies to the same people that are now. But okay. I respect it. I respect the priest. Maybe there's such a view from his angle. Those old people were applauded, and I respect them too. I didn't know how to explain. But the deafest thing is that these old men come to me and ask: “Well, what about that draft law? Is there any chance? Well, I think it should be." Then I mean, God, help my people! But now this draft law seemed to me to be a noord. All right, come on! It didn't work! All right! If you look at it with a strong national seed, then it really is a reconciliation with evil. Now we're coming back to it... We've thrown out all the practical things, social assistance, but there's this... Well, yes, reconciliation with evil. There is no practical point! To this end, I call, at least, for social assistance to be included in the draft law, because the draft law deals with opportunities for municipalities. They can or can help, but it will at least motivate the local authorities and at least confirm your will as a whole. You'd like it to be, wouldn't you? But this is not about concrete proposals at the moment (that is, proposal 10). But in general, I call on you to support that... we would, however, - and we should! - to leave social assistance in this law. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U63	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U64	Dear colleagues, If Mr. Latkovsky had not left one of the coalition parties, the National Association, six months ago, this proposal would have been supported. This is a very good proposal. In principle, in this draft law, all Latkovsky's proposals are very good, correct and on the subject. Really! I am very sorry that this political affiliation or independence... Ilmar, you have no political affiliation! I was the only one who supported your proposal in the Commission. And I will still support all your proposals in this bill, because I know you know how to do the right thing in this bill (Interface: “Do not talk to the Member!” ), because you have more experience in these matters than I do. And in this respect, I trust you. And I call on the other colleagues, also from the National Association... Your former colleagues: please support these proposals from your former member of the group. These proposals are on the subject, and indeed these people will benefit very much from this small social aid. And the fact that he has left the Group or Party of the National Alliance should not play a role. So please be so kind and support all these proposals by Mr Latkovska. Please do not take into account that he is no longer a member of a coalition party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U65	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U66	The Commission also had a wide-ranging debate on this proposal, but it did not support it and the Commission did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Latkovsky's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 2 and for - 41. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U68	The proposal was received from Members Janson and Laizane. It has been partially supported and included in the Commission6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U69	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U70	Proposal 4 received from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior Siliņa. Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U71	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U72	Proposal received from Member Rihards Melgailis. Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U73	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U74	Dear colleagues, The motion by Member Melgail is undoubtedly a small promise in the right direction, but it does not solve the whole problem. This law still includes in Latvian legislation the first and only norm, as far as I am aware, which determines the different treatment of citizens depending on the type of acquisition of citizenship. This is in direct contradiction with Article 4 of the Citizenship Act. Look, please! And, in fact, it is also contrary to the Constitution, which lays down the principle of equality for all citizens. Moreover, as my colleague Pimenov pointed out, this law will not achieve the declared goal, that is, reconciliation. We had interesting discussions with Mr Janson at the committee meeting. Mr Janson has held consultations with all the organisations involved in the war, but we know that the organisation that unites most of the members of the war on the side of the anti-hitlerist coalition is very dissatisfied with this draft law. In addition to what Mr Pimenov said, these veterans also turned to the allies, that is to say, the United States, the British and French embassies, protesting against such a norm. Do we really hope that, by adopting such a law, we will achieve the objective formulated at the time by the then President of State who proposed this draft law? I don't think so. That makes no sense. I think that if Mr Melgaili's proposal is supported, it extends justice to a very small part of the members of the war, but overall this law will not improve the situation. On the contrary, they're really going to split the veterans. A FRAUD can't support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U75	Mr Cilevič, are you in favour of the vote on Amendment 6? No, no. Thank you. On Proposal 5? No, no. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add to this proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U76	Proposal 5 has been partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U77	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U78	6. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U79	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 67, against - 23, refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U80	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that the proposal of Member Melgailis, partially supported by it, provides that the current citizens of the Republic of Latvia who were able to claim Latvian citizenship on 17 June 1940 on the basis of the version of the law “On Statehood”, which was in force on 17 June 1940, may obtain the status of a member of the Second World War, subject to the condition that during the period from 17 June 1940 until 2 September 1945, the said persons participated in an armed fight against the military formations of the USSR, Nazi Germany or its allies in the composition of regular military units of other countries, unless there are restrictions referred to in Article 3 of this Law. In the Commission discussion it was concluded that the wording of the application for Latvian citizenship would apply to persons who would have had grounds for obtaining the Latvian citizenship in accordance with the version of the law “On Statehood”, which was in force on 17 June 1940. This could affect a very small number of persons, because the law “On State” did not establish a state on an ethnic basis, nor did it allow a double state, and according to amendments made in 1927 to the law “On State State” nationals and stateless persons of other countries could apply for citizenship if they had lived in Latvia for at least five years. Proposal received from Member Pimenova. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U81	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 66, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U82	Proposal No 8 received from Members Janson and Laizane. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U84	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U86	On Amendment 9, I would like to express the opinion of the Commission. The proposal clarifies Article 3(1) so that the law is clearly applicable in practice. Proposal No 9 provides that a person cannot obtain the status of a member of the Second World War if he has been a member of the Nazi German National Socialist German Workers' Party or a member of the German National Socialist German Workers' Party's Paramilitary Structure of the SS. The Commission concluded that the person could have been a member of the German National Socialist German Workers' Party, but not a member of the SS. The Commission working group concluded that the members of the SS were welcomed according to the inhuman principles of the foreign race developed by the National Socialist Germany, which divided the population according to ethnic characteristics (e.g. Latvians or Russians could not be members of the SS as if they were representatives of a lower race). In 1946 the German National Socialist German Workers' Party as well as its paramilitary structure, the SS, were criminalized. A paramilitary structure in the SS shall not be associated with weapons units in the SS. The arms SS units were military units that submitted to the Nazi German military command. The participants of the above-mentioned entities, if they were involved in the war illegally, as was the case with Latvian citizens, were not found criminals by the International War Tribunal of Nuremberg in 1946 unless the individual committed the crime. Proposal No 10 received from the Member Ilmars Latkovska and it has not been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U87	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U88	I remember childhood as old men laughed with each other: “On which side it’s not weight that it’s been the war of the Father!” Of course this law... This issue is not just black or white. But the specific proposal is: if you've been in war and Communist party, then you're getting out of this circle of law applicants because... Well, look equally at Hitler's party and Stalin's party... Of course, if there were no filters... But we're already filtering here. If there were no filters... And then the only thing would be that you weren't a war criminal. This may have been even the initial initiative of the President of Latvia Berzins, and it could be a very generous attitude from Latvia - we grant a benefit to everyone. But, unfortunately... Maybe so far we have not grown up on both sides, and that is why we are beginning to put some filters on the table - to which this law will apply. And if you don't give everyone this status, then what logical filter could be next? Those people who were taken in their ranks by the two opposite powers. In fact, the previous draft law was about illegally mobilized persons... Two opposite occupation powers had violently ripped these Latvian guys into war. These were two ideologies, two parties, Hitler and Stalin. And so there could be equal treatment here. It is clear that life is not easy, but if you have been in a party and have been in war, so in some way you have accepted their regime, in some way it has been collaboration. It is not said that these people should now be punished, they should be excluded from somewhere, but they should be excluded from this law. We discussed with the Commission. It is not about those people who have been active in Latvia's independence and who have been in the Communist Party. Like Brigman or Yewman or Avotiņš... No, these people have not been in war, they are a generation of each other born in other times. They have not met the repressions that have been revealed. But if you've seen the war, you've been accepted with power in that war, taken on one side, but then voluntarily collaborated with one of the parties, in this case, with the Communist Party (I also call for them to be excluded from the list of applicants), then... if we are talking with a strong national rotation, there is a reconciliation with evil and some consistency here should be maintained. So that I call for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U89	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U90	Dear President, Honourable Members! Clearly, we have still not been freed from the consequences of occupation. There has not been any lustration in Latvia, and unlike Poland, we cannot adopt any law here, without constantly looking at Moscow, at the Kremlin, or on other sides. Latvia was not just a Communist party until the 1990s. We had more than 20 different organisations, which, until 2000, had been destroying the national foundations. I don't know if the commission was aware of this book - Arnold Berz Red Bubbles. More than 20 anti-Latvian organizations are gathered here. It is a summary of the Latvian security institutions about the organizations that in every way actively destroyed the independence of Latvia. As the previous speaker said, in Latvia, before the war there was virtually no major companionship, there were a few hundred sitting in prison. Most of them were uneducated people and a few agents, such as Kalnberzin, who were sent from Moscow to prepare... They were all caught. When the war started, there was no mobilisation in Latvia. Only local collaborators or fooled communals, who had gained an active role in their activities by undermining Latvia's independence in 1940, ran to Russia and other Soviet republics. At the end of the war, young people from Latgale could not be Communist, because they did not leave the party during the war. Then there is the question of those veterans who entered the post-war period despite repression, the death penalty, the expulsion of 1949, the 1961 and 1973 cases, where only the death penalty was imposed, and despite the Czech terror in the 1980s. Gunārs Astra, we know, Lydia Lasmane-Doronina... So there must be these old men who had fought, and if they joined the party then they had to say that they had something wrong with their head. So the active action after independence. Why should we support Ilmar Latkovsky's proposal? Of these many organizations... because people already know only the Interfronts and the Vislatvian Society Rescue Committee. Well, I'll name some. The Communist International Union. As early as 1994, it adopted a huge threat statement that Moscow, i.e. Russia, will not leave its people in distress and that there may be various military campaigns. This statement was adopted on the basis of the Latvian Citizenship Law. Then there were Latvian Antifascist Fighters' Association, CIS Veterans' Organisation, socially-oriented Russian scientists. You will say, these were Russian scientists. Well, I'll name a few. Latvia was a member of Rubiks, retired Colonel Tuzovs, who had written a scientific report on the Latvian nation's struggle in support of Soviet power. A whole row of the work of other scientists. The Union of War Veterans, the Joint Council of Labour Collectives, the Council of Officers of the Russian Army (of which many have remained), the Russian Defence League, the Congress of Russian Communities (also Latvian citizens, if any, were Russians of ethnic origin and were present at this Russian Congress), the Russian National Rescue Front, the Latvian Jewish-War Veterans Association, which mostly brought together domestic workers and Czechs who, if anything, acted in the SMERŠ and were proud of it themselves. Well, here you can read the minutes of their meetings back in 2000 or in the late 1990s, as they have fought against fascism in Latvia. Latvian Russian Community, Union of Military Pensioners, Union of Independent Veterans Organisations, World War Veterans Organisation, Union of Veterans Rights... Well, I got up to 15... I won't... There's another... 15... because all these organizations receive funding from Moscow. These are the occupations that remained in Latvia and are not going to leave, despite the fact that we have accepted two declarations that the Cabinet of Ministers should provide all kinds of support, financial and material assistance so that these people can repatriate to their beloved ethnic homeland. No, they still work here in Latvia! Okay, that's about it. But we have a very strict record...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U91	Mr. Kirstein! Your debate is over. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kirštein: “You could combine... ?” ) Are Members opposed if Member Kirštein (Interface: “Stop!” ) unites the two speaking times? ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U92	All right. To conclude, here's what. It looks strange that we're spending so much time here, for example, to record here that we shouldn't have been a member of the Nazi party... We already know that the Nazi party could not also have people who were not Germans - not only within the SS. That is what I wanted to add. Does the Commission or Members know at least one ethnic German in Latvia, a former member of the SS and a member of the Nazi party who could qualify for this status? None! So it has been recorded so that we can look back at the Kremlin: see how we have done! So we've written that we're not putting the Nazis here, but the Communists are walking on the streets, these former occupations are walking... This is full of them. They are not even a thousand or a thousand. Ten thousand, they're hundreds of thousands. Several hundred thousand! So this reverance shows that there is a strong impression from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But what does it show me? We are not really Poles who, let us say, oppose the European Commission, which takes its decisions, regardless of anything. Our Foreign Minister has taken one of his favorite positions, regular... Yeah, again... to bend. I'm sorry! It is a pity that the Commission has taken such a decision. But I call for support for Ilmar Latkovsky's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U93	I closed the debate. Is there something to be explained on behalf of the Commission about this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U94	There was a debate in the Commission, but the majority of the Commission did not, unfortunately, support Ilmar Latkovsky's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U95	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Member Latkovsky's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 25, for - 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U96	11. - the proposal from Members Janson and Laizane. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U98	12. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U99	Members want to vote in favour of 12? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The proposal of Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U100	13. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U101	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U102	Article 4 of the draft law describes the procedure to be followed in order to qualify for the status of a member of the war. First of all, it is necessary to submit a submission. The application must be accompanied by documents proving that the person has participated in the war, as well as being a citizen of the Republic of Latvia. Evidence must also be added that the person has participated in the war and, consequently, documents must be attached from national archives as well as from archives or public institutions of other countries. In addition, if there are any restrictions on obtaining the status, it is necessary to prove... appropriate information is required as to whether there were or not restrictions or whether they remained in force. I am asking the authors of this procedure about all this story. Have they ever seen people over 90? Have they ever lived together in a single house with people over 90 years of age? Have they seen how they talk, how they behave, how they sleep, what they understand and what they don't understand... In fact, some communication has taken place with them? Do they really believe that they can do the whole gluttony process? I think this is a very great challenge for anyone who would like to end up getting a note on the skirt. If we really wanted our war veterans to be recognised as members of war under this law, it is necessary that they be helped to collect all these documents. I think it would be necessary for the social services of local governments to help them, because all those services have already understood who are those people who live in their microdistricts, who are those single men who really fought and who have not fought in the Second World War... and to provide them with the necessary assistance for the collection of all these documents. Otherwise, this gift - the status of the Second World War - may become a ridicule for those guys who will simply be offered the opportunity to deal with the collection of documents and the writing of applications. I think if we want to help them, then these existing services must. That is why I am asking you to support my proposal 13. In it, I urge you to do everything I have described specifically with regard to the social services of local governments.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U103	I closed the debate. Is there anything to explain on behalf of the Commission about this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U104	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U105	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 55, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U106	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U108	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Ilmar Latkovsky. No aid was granted to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U109	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U110	Last move. Proposal that the Cabinet of Ministers should establish monthly substantive benefits. The Commission received a letter from the National Warriors Association of Latvia that they did not need these benefits. I think it is very symptomatic of all this thing that we take care of. That is a shame for this bill - this letter. How far they can lead!Is that so? What do they need? Note? It may have been arranged and written. The promises remain that municipalities can provide social assistance at their own disposal and at their own discretion. In the Commission, we discovered, more rightly, that it was reaffirmed that existing laws allow local authorities to do so. So this law is nothing new for municipalities... no new opportunities. But if only municipalities can provide this assistance and material support or relief, it is not equal. One municipality may give something, another - no, one - less, the other - more. In general, it is good for 300 men from both sides who would have these tiny but much needed benefits. Will this have an impact on the budget? Similarly, all its notes and its bureaucratic organisation will be provided with contingency funds. There will therefore be nothing left over, even though we obviously will not support this proposal. The question remains: what does this bill give? And the question remains: do I have to vote on it at all, and do you have to vote on it, namely on the draft law as a whole? So that I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U111	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U112	Dear colleagues, At the very beginning, before this bill was examined at the 12th Saeima, I really went to those men who have about 90, and I'm not ashamed to go to them, and I really know them from the beginning of the 1990s. There was a question: is it worth steering this draft law at the 12th Saeima if the previous Saeima rejected it? And those men were very clear about this dilemma - about social assistance or against social assistance. Even before this draft law was passed, the men said: “We do not need their social assistance.” To highlight this one letter at the moment - it is not really right. That was the decision already before the draft law was brought forward. And the Red Armies in the Latvian Strelnieki Association, with which they were consulted about their possible participation in the Advisory Council, which was originally provided for in the law, never made a claim for social assistance. Because there is one thing to be aware of: if this is a social assistance law, the State of Latvia also assumes responsibility for those citizens of other countries who have fought in the Second World War both within and outside Latvia. Once again, it is written in the preamble to the law that the citizens of the Republic of Latvia have been illegally involved in the Second World War, in violation of all international conventions, and Latvia could not take responsibility for its citizens at the time, where Latvia was still a citizen of other countries, because it was only de jure or de facto at that time. The proposal by Mr Latkovsky still contains such a philosophical, dubious issue. If they were to give social assistance to the participants of the Second World War, they would not have received social assistance from those who received the status of a member of the national resistance movement. But then there's this philosophical question: if you're opposed to both occupation powers and you're a member of the resistance movement, are you less valuable than if you were illegally recruited in the army? Well, I'm sorry, this is not the logical wording of paragraph 2 of the preamble. I call on you, however, not to support Mr Latkovsky's proposal. Think of the legal consequences!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U113	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U114	Two comments on the above. The previous Saeima did not reject this draft law. Here we voted in favour of the referral to the commission. With all social benefits... But now that was the time, and this bill remained somewhere because there was a hot debate and debate. That it doesn't happen... Who doesn't have to... of which - members of the national resistance movement... It's not a philosophical question, it's very practical, so that you don't pay twice or twice... That's, for the members of the national resistance movement... or, if someone receives remuneration from another country, in particular perhaps from Russia, this benefit, the material benefit, would not be due. Very practical things.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U115	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U116	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Latkovsky's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 38, against - 7, refrains - 39. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U118	16. - Member Pimenova's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U119	Mr Pimenova, will you need a debate for more than two minutes? Will you need more... Is that so? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U120	Yeah, really, a minute. My proposal is similar to that of Mr Latkovska. I would like to say: if we do not grant social benefits, we reduce all our initiative until a note is given. But that's little. It is about what we actually conclude: the war is not over, it is continuing. Because 130. Veterans of the Latvian String Corps refused to support this draft law... That's what happens. Consequently, this draft law does not contribute to reconciliation, but is all the more frustrating, disintegrating society, and it will simply become a harmful draft law. I ask for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U121	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U122	The proposal of Member Pimenova was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U123	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 61, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U124	17. - the proposal from Member Ilmar Latkovsky. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U125	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U126	18. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission was supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Not supported!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U127	Members... support. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Two times voted because it was not supported!” ) All proposals have been examined and the Commission calls for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on the status of the Second World War in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 22, it's not. The law is passed. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, I invite everyone right away, 10.35, to the Christmas creative workshop outside the Saeima House. Small meals prepared together with gifts will be sent to the Children’s Clinical University Hospital for small patients. Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U128	Hello, dear colleagues! Currently not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Ringolds Balodis, Ritvars Jansons... is Nelli Kleinberga, Inese Laizāne, Rihards Melgailis, Ināra Mūrniece... There is, Roman Money, Renārs Putniņš and Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U129	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U130	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Song and Dance Festival”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U131	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Song and Dance Festival” at third reading. Nine proposals have been received and I will present them to you now. I'll tell you how they were decided on by the Commission. The proposal is from the Legal Office and is supported. We also ask for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U133	2. - Mr Klementyev's proposal, which has been partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U134	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U135	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U137	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U139	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U140	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U141	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, For the third time, I will talk about the issue of organising and ensuring a song festival. I would very much like to quote the text of Rule 8.1: "The Committee on Action shall consider and take decisions on the preparation and the organisation of the Song and Dance Festival and shall ensure coordination of the bodies involved in the organisation of the holidays." Although I have been participating in the song festival since 1989 as a chief conductor, I cannot name any event where there would not be decisions made in an emergency, and it was ensured by the procedure laid down in the Song and Dance Festival Law. And only because in 2015 in the general trial, the opinion was accepted as a result of the inability of medical staff, that during the festival of songs there is no provision for certain order, because children terrifyingly wit... Thought how to arrange, and suddenly, spontaneously, the idea arose that an operational management team should be formed. All the institutions that so far provided the order for the song and dance festival are participating in the formation of the Action Committee, there were areas represented - health, safety, artistic activities... Absolutely everything was done. We will not avoid children being faint (always faint) by creating a new unit. The question left unanswered to the Ministry of Culture, which is creating these amendments to the law, about the creation of an operational management group - how much will it pay to the budget of the song and dance festival? At the time of the crisis, Mr Ints Dalder, the former Minister for Culture, took two million out of this budget with a light hand, because it turns out to be a crisis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “But there was a crisis!” ) Yes, there was a crisis, I understand. When there is a disaster at school and the number of hours is reduced, the first one takes away the hours of music, as the sunrise can also take off the hours. You understand, not mathematics, not biology or other hours... And that's why I was inspired by yesterday's programme, where Mr. Kaimiņš was trying very hard to find out what it means to cut administrative resources by six percent so that others had a higher salary, but it also did not answer how much it would cost tax payers money... Until now, even at the first Northern and Baltic Song Festivals, there was an explosion in the tower, and the order was fast ensured. And that was guaranteed by the law. I have one question: why do we need to delegate two representatives from the same institution from each ministry now to the next celebrations or events - from the same institution - to the Action Committee and also to the Operational Steering Group? Nevertheless, the law provides that any Governor, any person who revokes, shall immediately notify the Chairman of the Action Committee, who shall take a final decision. The question is one: do we really need to delegate from the security structures to the song and dance festival to the order of two, not one, who is responsible for something? We show once again that we imitate anything, that we would have order. Will the Order Be Greater? I doubt it very much. Expenditure will increase and money will be deducted from artistic activities. Do you want that? Well, please vote in favour of this beautiful action... security... their operational management group, because then it's going to be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U142	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U143	Mr Platoper, I will dispel a little uncertainty. Did I understand correctly that you are addressing the directors of Latvian 109 county schools about closing music hours during the crisis? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Platpers: “Yes!” ) Because it is their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U144	I closed the debate. The debate was closed. Excuse me! On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U145	Yeah. There were many different views on this issue in the Commission, but in general we came to the conclusion that any producer, any head of the cultural house, any head of the municipality, who is in contact with the organisation of events, knows that the fact that there are such safeguards so that people can dance, sing and so to say that it is very good. I therefore call for support for this proposal, as the Commission has already done.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U146	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U147	Thank you. 6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U149	7. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been partly supported and included in the 8th legal document. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U150	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U151	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which the Commission itself has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U153	And nine. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U155	We have therefore examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Song and Dance Festival Act” in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U156	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Song and Dance Festival”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U157	Thank you. And let us have a good dance, and let us have a good sound!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U158	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U159	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety” (No 1080/Lp12). The amendments were prepared by the Ministry of Health, and the aim of the law is to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers detailed epidemiological safety measures to limit the spread of certain infectious diseases, as well as to establish the procedure for carrying out mandatory health checks and the duties of the employer and employee if the worker is infected with a certain infectious disease. In order to achieve this, it is proposed to replace Articles 13, 34 and 18 and to replace the words ‘professionally justified suspicion’ with the words ‘reasonable suspicion’ by ‘infectologist’ and, given that the Saeima has adopted a new law entitled ‘Statistics law’, in Article 11 replace the words ‘National Statistical Law’ by ‘Statistics law’. The Commission will, of course, debate the proposal put forward by the Ministry of Health to exclude paragraph 31. What is the aim of the proposed proposal of the Ministry of Health to exclude point 31? They propose that the definition of a "national immunisation programme" be excluded due to the absence of a new immunisation plan and we will live in line with the document "Public Health Guidelines 2014-2020" drawn up by the Ministry of Health. In its meeting, the Commission supported the proposed amendment to the law at first reading and asked the Saeima to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U160	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U161	Colleagues! This is an interesting example, a good example of how, by driving the necessary and coherent cases in the Law on Epidemiological Security, the interests of officials are being lobbyed, the right of officials not to work and not to do their job. I cannot otherwise refer to the proposal of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control to exclude the concept of a national immunisation programme from the law and to replace it with totally incomprehensible strategic directions. Thus, the law is drawn up in this section, contrary to what the legislator has stated. A special, special law has been adopted in Latvia - the law on medical planning and development planning system. I will clarify this: the Development Planning System Act. By the way, Mr. Many has announced this in due time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “What time, Many, were you president?” ) So there are specific documents. Planning documents, strategic documents. And there are programs. The vaccination programme shall be voted on, as shall the budget programme, as well as the health programme, as well as sports programmes - with special votes, with special money. Now we want this money, which may be in the budget and which is scheduled to be replaced by... Let's say we do what we want. So the specialists of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre do not want to be responsible in the future, but want to talk about the subject in general and abstract. I see these imprecise... Of course, the law must be passed, but such a norm, which may threaten the provision of vaccination of Latvian people, including children, must be rejected in a imperative way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U162	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U163	As I said, I think we will talk about this proposal from the Ministry of Health. But on behalf of the Commission, please support the amendments to this law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U165	January 10th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U166	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 January 2018. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Animal Feed Chain”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U167	Hello, dear colleagues! To your attention the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Food Chain”. These amendments clarify the process of monitoring the quality of feed as well as transfer the GAEC standards to this sector law. The Commission has examined the draft law at first reading and is asking for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U168	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Food Chain! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U169	January 15th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U170	Thank you. Proposals must be submitted by 15 January 2018. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Public Procurement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U171	Hello, colleagues! We work with a draft law whose title is no longer in line with what is on the agenda, that is, it says, “Amendment to the Law on Public Procurement”. The deadline for submitting proposals was extended. Two hours. The Ministry of Finance has worked very hard, and 52 proposals have been submitted on behalf of Dana Reizniece-Ozola, on behalf of the Minister, so in fact we are already working on amendments to the Public Procurement Act. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U173	2. There is also a proposal by the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, where some figures have been replaced by other figures. A technical amendment that has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U175	3. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U177	4. is a proposal from the Minister of Finance, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U179	5. is a proposal from the Minister of Finance, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U181	6. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, to reword Article 9, eleven, paragraph 3. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U183	7. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which provides for the replacement of paragraph 4 of the twenty-second paragraph of Article 9. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U185	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who intends to make adjustments to Article 11. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U187	Adjustments to Article 12 shall be made by means of Article 9. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U189	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U191	11. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who intends to amend Article 18. A couple of words are being changed - a proposal of a technical nature. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U193	12. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which provides for the expression of the second paragraph of Article 21 in a different version. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U195	13. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, concerning the second paragraph of Article 23 (with a view to replacing, altering the words). It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U197	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which is also technical. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U199	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U201	16. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. The third paragraph of Article 32 shall be replaced by the following: It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U203	17. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. He has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U205	18. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U207	19. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who intends to put forward the first paragraph of Article 37 in a different version. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U209	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which intends to add the fourth paragraph of Article 37. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U211	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U213	22. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U215	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. This has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U217	Proposal No 24 adds to Article 39, second paragraph, point 6, in other words. And is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U219	25. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who intends to make adjustments to Article 42. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U221	26. - a proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which provides for the replacement of Article 42, first paragraph, point 4, with other words. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U223	27. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U225	28. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U227	29. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U229	The 30th proposal is also supported by the Commission, which is a proposal from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U231	31. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U233	32. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U235	33. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance, which provides for an adjustment of Article 46. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U237	34. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Ozola, which provides for the exclusion of the words in the sixth paragraph of Article 46. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U239	And here, please, fellow Members, attention! Proposal 35... You all have access to a document with number 4342A in your system. It is the change sheet where the position of the commission has been changed. 35. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U240	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U241	36. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U243	Proposal No 37 provides for the replacement of the words in Article 50 by other words. And it's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U245	38. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U247	39. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U249	40. - a proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which intends to replace the relevant figures in the fourth paragraph of Article 51. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U251	41. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U253	42. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who intends to supplement Article 58... to supplement Article 58 and are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U255	43. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which replaces the figures in paragraph 7 of the second paragraph of Article 60 and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U257	44. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It is also technical and has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U259	Proposal No 45. These are also technical amendments, replacing words. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U261	46. - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U263	47. - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U265	48. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U267	49. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U269	50. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Paragraph 2 of the second paragraph of Article 74 shall be replaced by the following: It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U271	Proposal 51: It is envisaged to replace the figures in the fifth paragraph of Article 75. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U273	Colleagues, last proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This provides for changes to the transitional provisions in individual chapters and has not received support within the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U274	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U275	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all 52 proposals for amendments to the Law on Public Procurement, and on behalf of the Commission, I am calling on you to vote in favour of this draft law at second reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U276	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U277	Colleagues, this time, unlike the previous extension, will not be two hours, but several weeks. If you have constructive proposals, please submit them by 12 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U278	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 12 January 2018. On the agenda - draft law “On the expropriation of real estate for the installation of the border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U279	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission has received and developed a total of four proposals. At the meeting of the draft law commission, real estate owners were invited. It was done in good time. A representative of several property owners came to the meeting and was heard. The Commission can see 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr Kozlovska, was partly supported by his own proposal. A small explanation is required for this Decision. In particular, this draft law initially provided for the disposal of four real estate (with the corresponding land area) for public needs, namely the establishment of a border line. During the period between readings, the institution responsible had reached an agreement with two owners, which resulted in two properties being registered in the Land Register in the name of the state. In fact, another property was also agreed, but this property had not yet been registered in the name of the State. The Minister of the Interior, with his proposal, excluded these two properties, which had already been registered in the national name, from this draft law, but at the same time put forward a proposal for the disposal of six more properties and corresponding land for public use. This was done for the second reading. In its meeting, the Commission found that Section 14, Paragraph Two of the Law on the Sale of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company states: “If the drafter is not the Cabinet of Ministers, the draft law can only be passed for consideration at first reading after receiving the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers, which evaluates the need to dispose of the real estate for the needs of the public. This opinion shall be prepared and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers within the time limit set by the responsible parliamentary committee.’ We had a discussion about what we understood in this case as “the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers”. It may be related to the draft order, but it was found at the hearing that it does not address this situation, because this “roof” law determines... In this case, this draft law should be seen at first reading, but it was not. So the commission did not support this six real estate... The proposal put forward by the Minister for the Interior - the continuation of the procedure for the disposal of these real estate (with a certain area of land) in this way, included in this draft law for second reading. So the Commission did not consider the substance, but found that there were violations of the procedure, and therefore only partially supported the proposal of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Kozlovska. However, at the meeting of the Commission we talked a little about how the procedure for the disposal of these six properties has been followed, and we found, in the Commission's opinion, the issue arising from the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No.204 “The procedure for determining fair remuneration for the immovable property to be disposed of for public needs”, namely, from paragraph 32, which provides: if the assessment of the immovable property chosen by the institution is recognised as complying with the laws and regulations, then the assessment submitted by the owner... This assessment does not have any legal meaning. In the present case, two valuations with an interval of about four months plus minus 30-40 percentage points were submitted. In this context, the Commission decided to address the Government with a request to explain whether these Cabinet of Ministers regulations comply with the criterion of fair remuneration, which has also been indicated by the Constitutional Court. There you go! As a result, the 1st proposal presented by the Minister for the Interior was partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U280	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U281	And the Legal Commission, as I said, drafted its own proposal, which was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U282	Members support proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U283	3. - a editorial proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U285	And also 4. - a editorial proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau, which has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U287	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U288	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law on the disposal of real estate for the installation of the border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U289	Deadline for submission of proposals - January 19, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U290	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 19 January 2018. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fisheries”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U291	Dear colleagues, The draft law was prepared by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. It is planned here to transfer LSC norms to this law, as well as to clarify the rights and obligations of environmental inspectors, voluntary fishing inspectors and delegated persons of municipalities in the process of monitoring fish stocks. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U292	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Fisheries"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U293	January 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U294	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 19 January 2018. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U295	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices” (No 1095 Lp/12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared this bill and its main aim is to clarify which persons can obtain information from credit information offices and to what extent credit information offices are entitled to provide and process sensitive personal data and to ensure the confidentiality of such data. The Commission supported this draft law for the first reading. Request, colleagues, to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U296	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U297	Thank you, colleagues. We will wait until 8 January 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U298	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 8 January 2018. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the Member Ritvars Jansons, Kārlis Sergeants, Einars Cilinska, Edvins Šnore and Jānis Dombrava, “On publicising the documents of the former State Security Committee and lightening the system of power of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime”, be submitted to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the commission responsible. Mr. Judine, are you going to speak 'no'? Will you speak 'no'? ‘ Against” has applied to speak on behalf of Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U299	Dear colleagues, Before you vote in favour of transferring the KGB documents to the National Archives of Latvia, I think it is very important for you to understand what you will vote on and to what extent it will help to ensure that documents are made available to the public. First of all, I would like to say that I support the transfer of documents to the National Archives of Latvia. This must happen. I also support the publication of documents. But here in the Saeima, we are working on draft laws, not just talking about certain concepts and general principles. In 2014, we amended the law on KGB documents, and at that time we decided that information should not be published immediately, because information may vary. It is important to examine this and to avoid a situation in which people, for example, are made public, and this can directly cause them problems. We talked about this, and therefore a special commission was set up, which was entrusted with the task of completing the study, preparing the final report and then publishing the documents. The law has been passed. We are waiting for 31 May next year and hope that everything will happen. We are suddenly seeing new proposals, a new initiative which, in principle, conceptually, as I said, could be supported. But, colleagues, you have a document in your hands. Look at what it says, and consider whether you should support it. I will tell you about some of the problems I see. The risks which exist and which are intrinsically at risk, and not contributing to the publication of documents. There are a number of such risks. But now it's about the substance. Article 4 provides that the KGB Research Commission will work longer. We hoped it would finish on 31 May, but now it is about continuing to work until December. Additional expenditure. And what is the benefit? I have great doubts as to whether this will really provide anything. Article 3 provides for publication of documents. Very nice, but it would be even better to specify the scope of the documents. The total amount is 152 thousand cases, 15 million pages. Who will finance the publication of relevant documents? I very much hope that there will be money in the budget to do this, but this is still a small problem. Please read paragraph 3 of the annotation! On document transfer from SAB to the National Archives of Latvia, it is stated: “The storehouses should provide additional security, as currently there is only technical security in the building, the dismantling and construction of buildings have been started close to the building, and there is a degraded area near where there is a regular misfire.” I very much hope that colleagues who propose moving documents understand that they propose moving documents from a secure place to a place, as they write, where there is abuse of burning. I very much hope that we will not lose any documents. But that's not all. We read the things that colleagues offer us. All documents will be accessible. I fully support it. We need to know who worked for the KGB. I want to know what these are about people. But you forgot that you were also talking about the victims. And now let's imagine that KGB agents have managed to find out that victims have sexual relations with a person or a disease, let's say. Do you want every person to be able to take it from the street, read it, and make it public? Should you not protect the victims? And the last one. The last thing I want to pay attention to, too. The Commission will work... The commission we set up will work until May 31. You all see that the commission is not as easy as we would like. And now, at a time when it has to study information, it is planned to transfer documents in accordance with Article 2 of the draft law. What does that mean? On 31 May, we will hear from the commission: “Because documents were not available from March to April because they were moved from one building to another (which is not safe), we could not complete the study.” Colleagues, what do you want to do?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I believe that we need to make the KGB documents public. I do not understand why the National Association wants to interfere with this. Dear colleagues! I understand, the elections are approaching, the will to look beautiful and support the principle. I would like to say once again: the principle must be supported - the KGB documents must be handed over to the National Archives of Latvia. But this draft law should not be supported, because quality is inadequate.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U300	Mr Ritvars Jansons has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U301	Dear colleagues, It is done so that the totalitarian regime that prevailed in Latvia, so that the possibility of control or repression, as it was in its possession, would not even be repeated in the form of a drop in independent Latvia. We have to deal with the regime once. It must be illuminated throughout the system of power, not just by small informants for 25 years. It is necessary to put a stop to this debate. The system of power in general must be demonstrated and the functioning of the State Security Committee must also be demonstrated. The activities of the Latvian Communist Party as a body in the context of the State Security Committee should be demonstrated, not forgetting that both institutions were a unit of the PSKP and a unit of the USSR State Security Committee. And in the name of overcoming the past, this name once must be brought to an end. Look at what's going on on Twitter. Now, look at this simple! It is necessary to put an end to and do what is taught by the experience of other countries - documents must be made public with scientific comments. It has done so by Germany with the experience of its Communist regime Stasi, the experience of security services, and scientific comments to documents. The Czech Republic has done so. Poland has done so. Lithuania has done so. And the results have been much better - the public is more informed, there are less suspicious shadows. These documents must be located in the National Archives of Latvia. A mistake was made at the beginning of the 1990s that these documents were split up. After all examples of archive practice, also international, the documentation package must be located in the National Archives of Latvia. Until now, the same storage facilities, which have been described as unsafe here, have kept the documents in order, have been protected and will keep these KGB documents there. They will be publicly available to the general public in the archives, and they will be published by 31 December 2018. The question of the KGB Scientific Research Commission. Here too, we must put an end to the endless debate between the SAB and the Scientific Commission - which has done the right thing, which has done the wrong thing. The current situation shows that the Scientific Commission will have the opportunity to study these materials in the SAB. They are given the opportunity to study. On 31 May, they are to be given a report and they are to be promised a report. It will not prevent the transfer of documents to the National Archives of Latvia until June 1, where they will also be available to other researchers. Until now, the Latvian Historical Commission, working on the President of Latvia, has studied very well those KGB documents that are already in the archives - criminal cases. These are millions of pages mentioned by Mr. Judine, and the archive will be the place where you can study them, where anyone will be able to get acquainted with these documents, and it is the best place to publish them. Not to publish millions. This is an erroneous assumption. I don't know if Gatis Liepiņš (a member of the Unity) will be in the commission or others, but in any case the scientists themselves will determine what to publish. We Members cannot say how many pages and what documents should be published on the Internet. This is a question for scientists. The Scientific Commission has been created for this and will not be extended. It must operate until 31 May, as it has been set. They are already preparing documents for publication and preparing scientific comments. Let them do it, too! No one intends to extend the deadline for them. And in the name of society we do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U302	Thank you. One Member has spoken against, one for. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “On Public Disclosure of Documents of the Former State Security Committee and Lightening of the Power System of the USSR/LPSR Occupational Regime, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 20, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. But I would like to inform you in connection with the response sitting scheduled for today. The question to the Member, Mr Zarina, Mr Adamson, Mr Tretjak, Mr Niconova and Mr Zujev, Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Arvil Asheraden, about the action taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding the enforcement of its administrative act on compulsory procurement’. No written reply has been provided. The Minister informs that due to pre-planned working meetings no oral answer can be given. The question to the Member, Mr Zariņa, Mr Adamson, Mr Morozova, Mr Tretjak and Mr Zuvėv, Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Arvil Asheraden, about the replies given by the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding the compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and the competence of the public energy trader.’ No written reply has been provided. The Minister informs that due to pre-planned working meetings no oral answer can be given. Member Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Zarina, Mr Nikonova, Mr Morozova, Mr Tretjak and Mr Adamson, ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity (OI) and start-up of production within the deadline’. No written reply has been provided. The Minister informs that due to pre-planned working meetings no oral answer can be given. The question to the Member, Mr Zarina, Mr Artūra Rubika, Mr Morozova, Mr Niconova and Mr Zujev, Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Arvil Asheraden, about the replies given by the Ministry of Economics to the Ministry of Economics' actions and decisions on compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity (OI) and on control groups.’ No written reply has been provided. The Minister informs that due to pre-planned working meetings no oral answer can be given. The question to the Member, Mr Zariņa, Mr Artūra Rubika, Mr Morozova, Mr Niconova and Mr Zujev, Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Arvil Asheraden, about the replies given by the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics in connection with compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and the opinions of the auditors’. No written reply has been provided. The Minister informs that due to the meetings previously planned it is not possible to attend the replies. The question to the Member, Mr Zarina, Mr Nikonova, Mr Morozova, Mr Tretjak and Mr Zujev, Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Arvil Asheraden, about the replies given by the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics in connection with the compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and the ‘government moratorium’. No written reply has been provided. The Minister informs that due to pre-planned working meetings no oral answer can be given. On the question of Member of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Zariņa, Mr Arthur Rubika, Mr Nikonova, Mr Tretjaka and Mr Zuvėv, Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Arvil Ašeraden, about the replies given by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and the establishment of a start-up and deadline for the right of the operator to sell the electricity produced within the framework of compulsory procurement.’ No written reply has been provided. The Minister informs that due to pre-planned working meetings no oral answer can be given. Member Arvilas Asheradenas, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arthur Rubika, Niconovas, Tretjak and Zuvėvs “On the decisions taken on 10 December of this year on the information contained in TV3’s “Nothing Personal” programme”. No written reply has been provided. The Minister informs that due to pre-planned working meetings no oral answer can be given. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Members' questions have been received - a total of nine. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš applies to speak. Imposition: “We were already waiting!” Thank you very much. All nine are asked to motivate them. Members Zarins, Cilevičs, Nikonovs, Zuvėvs and Tretjaka submitted a question ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and the opinions of auditors’. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U303	Colleagues! As you heard last sitting, we prepared and presented to the Minister for Economic Affairs a number of questions about the action of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and decisions on possible OI fraud. And I made it clear to you that these questions were put in order to clarify the replies of the Ministry of Economics. If the Minister had clarified his answers, then there would be only two choices: either the Ministry of Economics would have to show clearly what its role was in this fraud, or it would have to pretend to be a complete idiot. What the Minister for Economics chose... the answer you have just heard. The Minister of Economics chose not to answer any of these questions and therefore to violate the Constitution and the parliamentary order roll. We have therefore repeatedly prepared these questions and you will be able to listen to what they are about again. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “The Balagan continues!” ) This specific question is one of those resubmitted. And I'll go on with the next...
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U304	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Cilevičs, Jakimovs, Zemļinskis and Urbanovičs submitted a question ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity (OI) and start-up of production by the deadline’.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U305	If the Minister of Economics dares to answer this question, he will confirm that it was the Ministry of Economics who sanctioned this fraud discovered by journalists. We therefore repeat this question and point out that, in accordance with Rule 123 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, written replies should be provided no later than 48 hours after the end of the relevant part-session. Such a procedure shall be determined by both the Constitutional and the Saeima's Rules of Procedure. If this is not observed, I am very confident that the relevant competent authorities in our country will respond to this violation of the Constitution and the Saeima's Rules of Procedure roll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U306	The question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Cilevičs, Jakimovs, Zemļinskis and Urbanovičs submitted a question to the Minister for Economics “On the responses given by the Ministry of Economics to the Ministry of Economics’ actions and decisions on compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity (OI) and control groups”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. For control groups.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U307	Colleagues! Yesterday, the Ministry of Economics came up with a loud statement that it has carried out a test on 39 stations. In its statements, the Ministry has stated that it has always controlled everything. The question is: how have these controls taken place so far, if now everything needs to be checked again suddenly? In addition, stations which obviously do not meet the conditions to which they were authorised by the Ministry of Economic Affairs shall be inspected. So the question is, what else is to be tested here? It should have been decided for a long time that these aids should be abolished. However, instead of withdrawing permissions from these 39 stations, the Ministry of Economics is teaching the fact that three permits have been revoked as a great heroic work. So the correct statement in this case would have been: the Ministry of Economics continues to cover more than 30 stations. And punish every ten. Just like in the past, in Roman times, in the legion, every tenth who ran away from the battlefield, killed, and left the rest of them all. He said they were not guilty. The Ministry of Economics seems to act on the same principle.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U308	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Members Zarins, Cilevičs, Jakimovs, Zemļinskis and Urbanovičs submitted the question “On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and on the moratorium set by the government”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U309	This is another interesting situation which shows the hypocrisy of the Ministry of Economics and, in fact, efforts to cover and promote the OIC. What has the Ministry of Economics done? It imagines that it is in the public interest to take care, and in order to limit these decisions to one set of rules, it declares a moratorium, but at the same time continues to issue these permits intensively on the other. We ask the Ministry of Economic Affairs to explain the whole situation. The Ministry of Economy has refused to reply. This is another proof that it is a politically covered area that the Ministry of Economics is still dealing with.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U310	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Tutins, Jakimovs, Zemļinskis and Arturs Rubiks submitted a question “On the replies of the Ministry of Economics regarding the activities of the Ministry of Economics and the decisions taken regarding the compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and on the establishment of a start-up and deadline for the right of the operator to sell the electricity produced within the framework of compulsory procurement”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U311	This question was also submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, in violation of the Constitution and the roll of order of the Saeima, has refused to answer that question. If he answered that question in substance, it would appear likely that all these OIC producers, relatively, are already losing their authorisation periods and losing their ability to make full use of the compulsory purchasing aid, and what the Ministry of Economics is telling us at the moment would turn out to be false. The public is again being misled. We are putting this question back on the table, because we want to get a precise answer from the Ministry of Economics - an interpretation of when this aid period begins and when it expires. We hope that the Ministry of Economics will answer this question.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U312	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Members Zarins, Tutins, Jakimovs, Zemļinskis and Arturs Rubiks submitted the question “On the action of the Ministry of Economics regarding the implementation of its administrative act on compulsory procurement”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U313	Execution... Can you look at that question?
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U314	No, no. Questions shall be made available to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U315	This is one of the important aspects of this whole field of OIC to show what role the Ministry of the Economy was then playing, since the Ministry of Economics issues these permits and sets certain deadlines and specific amounts of aid on the basis of the information provided by the economic operator. On the other hand, if we look at even all of these 39 stations, which the Ministry of Economics seems to have evaluated, one of the signs shows that none of these stations has fulfilled the conditions for authorisation. The question is: why has the Ministry of Economics so far not made any decisions to cancel this aid, but will continue these games, that as if something is valued, something is being done? The Ministry of Economy has avoided providing an answer to this question. We are once again calling for a response.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U316	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Tutins, Arturs Rubiks, Morozovs and Potapkins submitted the question “On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the actions and decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding compulsory procurement of subsidised electricity and the competence of the public energy trader”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U317	This is another issue that was submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs because the Minister for Economic Affairs said that it was effective and... ( In between: “Disable the microphone of the Member Zarins! ” ) I want everything to be precise, so I don’t know anything. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” )... a control mechanism that ensures adequate control of the stations. The question is: how is this control carried out if, let us say, the question of heat is assigned to an institution which has no connection with the production of heat and has no appropriate competence at all? The question of whether heat is produced and used in a useful way is of fundamental importance to be able to assess whether such a trader qualifies for aid. The Ministry of Economy has avoided replying to this.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U318	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Zarins, Tutins, Arthur Rubiks, Morozovs and Potapkins submitted the question “On the decisions taken on 10 December of this year on the information contained in TV3’s “Nothing Personal” programme”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U319	Since, for the time being, the order of things is that, under the law, the Ministry of Economics must provide a mechanism of control over these producers of subsidised electricity, but in reality we see that they are journalists who are doing it, we pointed out to two other operators to help the Ministry of Economics and asked the Ministry of Economics to submit documents and take action to make sure that these traders are controlled and what the Ministry of Economics has actually done, and why, contrary to what has been discovered by journalists (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Thanks to journalists!” ), the Ministry of Economics considers (Applause) That everything's okay. Now let's find out who's right. We hope that this time the Ministry of Economics will be able to answer this question.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U320	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U321	We hope we get the answers.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U322	Members Stepanenko, Šymfas, Platopers, Viļums and Krūmiņš put forward the question “On the extension of the deadline for public consultation in the project “Access to learning content” due to lack of timely availability of materials”. The word for motivation to Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U323	Colleagues! The Ministry of Education and Science has given 130 days for public consultation on the new content of teaching. At present day 88, and more than half of the time the most important part of the project - education standards - has not been available for work. Teachers and parents either had to pick up the raising glass or spend money on poster A1. Colleagues! A public consultation will be concluded on 1 February and we believe that it is fair to extend the deadline in proportion to the wasted time when the material was not available for work. The Minister has been ignoring this parliamentary request for more than a month, and we want to finally make sure that the public consultation will be extended. We also want to know why more than 75 days teachers and parents were not provided with materials, and we want to know how much Latvian taxpayers and European funds were spent on this useless technical solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U324	The question is referred to the Minister of Education and Science. Dear colleagues, ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Dear colleagues, I remind you that at 12.30, everyone - both Members and Saeima staff - is invited to the Christmas traditional reception event in the Saeima Red Hall! On December 19, 65th anniversary was celebrated by our colleague, Inesis Boķe. And today is a birthday for our colleague Mihail Zemlinskis. (Applause) Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Inese Lībins-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U325	Dear colleagues, Today is the last sitting of the Saeima, attended by Member of the Saeima 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, and President Solvita Āboltiņa of the Parliament 10 and 11. We truly want to thank her for her work. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U326	Thank you. Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U327	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Ringolds Balodis, Nally Kleinberga, Inese Laizāne, Rihards Melgailis, Romanas Naudiņš and Renārs Putniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2017-12-21-PT12-458-U328	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
