ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs! Please sit down, prepare for registration. I also welcome journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, TV and radio. Today's Thursday, December 14th. Now the MPs will register, we'll start the morning session. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:45]] There are 434 card MPs in the hall. The morning session is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy of Leščinský Aleksandr Mihajlovich. Let's welcome him. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, as well as with the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council on December 12th, I inform you of the election of the leadership of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the head of the faction has been elected the national deputy of the Ukraine of Boko Ivan Sidorovich, the deputy head of the deputy faction Savosin Gennadija Anatoliyovich, Filindash Evgen Vasilovich. We welcome them, we wish them success in this difficult mission. You have an agenda for today, and we're moving on to these issues. It is proposed that the draft Order on the Liberation of the Drizzle from the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service be considered. A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council will report to Zvaric Roman Mikhajlovich. He's given the word. The chairman of the Kinakh committee, Anatoly Kirilovich, will then speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! To the exclusive competences of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as defined in paragraph 12 above. Part of the first article 85 is the question of whether to authorize the appointment and dismissal of the President of Ukraine as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The exclusive competences of the President of Ukraine, as defined in paragraph 14 of Part One, of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, include the authorization for the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the appointment and discharge of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. In accordance with these constitutional provisions, the President of Ukraine submits an application for the release of Drizchny Igor Vasilovich from the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u3	Is there a question for Roman? Well, please, five minutes to ask. Sign up. Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u4	On a large scale, two questions. Question one: Where is Drizzany, and can I ask him a question? And question two. Some strange model comes out: the President has already conducted all the assignments that are needed there, and we have to make some decisions in the back. Please explain why such a procedure has been chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u5	First, it is not necessarily the presence of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when the submission of the President of Ukraine is under consideration. This is the first time. Second, regarding the appointment of Igor Vasilovich as Deputy Secretary of the Security Council. I would like to point out that, first of all, this post is meant for the Undersecretary -- it is not prohibited to reconcile this position with that of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Well, there were no obstacles for the President to appoint Drizchny Igor Vasilovich as Deputy Secretary of the RNBO.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u6	Okay. Roman Mikhailovich is also a member of the Security Council. Right? I'm in charge of the service. Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u7	Well, Ukraine and the Ukrainian people will no longer be surprised by the circus that is taking place by the team of our distinguished President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk. Professionals in capital letters. And on another occasion, they're putting the President on the table, and I think they're going to make fun of not only Ukraine, but the whole world. Tell me, please, if you're saying that the head of the Security Service is able to lead, to reconcile such a position as the President has assigned him, so be it. And if the Supreme Council doesn't support us today, it won't satisfy the President's request, what will the President do next? Will Ukraine continue to be ridiculed? Is that, you couldn't make a submission in advance, decide with the Supreme Council, and then make a further decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u8	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u9	Let me tell you, Alexander Alexander, I'm not going to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u10	Please. Paul Gnatovich, you asked this question, you see, that there is no answer to it. So let's think about Roman Mikhailovich's position, he's right. Alexeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Catherine Samuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u12	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I see that the Kuchma case lives and prevails. These were unique cases with Kuchma when we were the last to know that a person was being released, even though he was going through the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But, Roman Mikhailovich, do you not consider nihilism to be legal nihilism that man has not yet been released -- here you are in front of us in the rostrum asking to be released -- and it is already assigned to another position. Well, how to judge it. That's the first one. And second of all. Well, if you'll excuse me, according to his status and the position of the Drizzany, she's much higher than the one he's in today. And I ask you very much: if you are a great lawyer, you will teach the President of Ukraine to respect the Constitution of Ukraine and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u14	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that neither the Constitution of Ukraine nor any legal act that is valid today prohibits the consolidation of the post of Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, who is a member of the RNBO, with the position of Deputy Secretary of the RNBO. And that's why there weren't any legal collusions on that. Similarly, the minister of justice of Ukraine combines his office as minister with a member of the RNB, and his workbook, Peter Mikolaiovich, is in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u15	Catherine Semenovna, well, you're not satisfied with the answer, I see, but Igor Drizcany has not been released from office yet, because he's only being dismissed by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u16	I know, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u17	Well, as you know, it's okay. Roman Mikhailovich, please sit down. Anatoly Kirilovich, head of the Committee on Defence and National Security, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies, the National Security Committee, the Defence Committee, in carrying out the Supreme Council's mandate, reviewed a draft decision by the President of Ukraine of the Supreme Council on the release of Drizcan from the post of head of the Security Service. At the same time, this has practically coincided with time, and the committee in the framework of the strengthening of parliamentary control has considered the situation of the Ukrainian Security Service as a whole and has taken a decision on this matter. The Committee notes that the task of reforming, transforming Ukraine's security service into a modern special service in the context of enhancing its efficiency, protecting Ukraine's economic, political interests, including strengthening, above all, counter-investigative activities to protect the economic, energy, information, transport, other areas of security of our state. At that time, the committee notes that there is a high risk of the lack of necessary results in the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service under the conditions of Ukraine's unapproved national security strategy, as required by the National Security Framework Act adopted in 2003 by the constitutional majority of the national deputies. The Committee also notes the need for substantial reinforcement of the work on strengthening the human resources component of the Security Service, the inadmissibility of politicizing the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service in the context, including the authority and trust of Ukraine in the world co-workers. We also define the need for a very serious strengthening of the coordination of the Ukrainian Security Service with other law enforcement agencies in our country, especially in the areas of countering the external impact on economic and political processes, affirming the rule of law, protecting human rights, combating corruption. The Committee also identifies the need for a substantial strengthening of public policy on issues relating not only to the optimization of personnel, but also to the improvement of the level of material and technical security and social protection of Ukrainian security workers, and for this reason cautions against the emotional statements and assessments of the Ukrainian Security Service. On the basis of the above, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduces a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which proposes to be accepted in general and to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine. As part of its decision, the committee makes a proposal on the need in general in the context of the transition to the parliamentary-presidential form of the state system of strengthening the civil parliamentary control of the rule of law system of the State, including the Security Service, primarily on the basis of concrete measures, the concept, the reform of the Ukrainian law enforcement system as an integral part of the democratic rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u19	Thank you. There's a question before. Ask Ruslan Petrovich. Calm down, calm down, please. Sign up for five minutes. Here comes the recording. In the meantime, I'm addressing the deputies. I understand that you were excited by the question, and now you've organized a few groups, and you're starting to discuss it. Take your seat and exchange your thoughts quietly. Vasil Alexandrovich, Hennaday. Vassil Alexanderovich, let your colleague go. Please sit down. Zybenko, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u22	Anatoly Kirilovich, I want to address you as a man who served all regimes without exception. Served honestly, served well. Please tell me, from a safety point of view, what does a titanium-magnetic factory mean for an ATS? And will your committee and next head of the U.S.S.A. decide on these issues? Because you've read us a good lecture on how to live. How, though, have these questions not been resolved today, including yourself? Why are we cleaning up Drizzle? Isn't that why we put strategic objects together -- and goodbye, Ukraine? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u23	Thank you. First of all, I am proud that, in 15 years of independence, Ukraine's Ukrainian voters elected me four times to the higher legislative body of the state, and I worked in all positions, starting with the district manager and the district council to the prime minister of Ukraine. And he worked so that he could always have the right to be honest with people -- and that's the main result of my work. That's the first one. It's different. It's about the Zaporozhye Titanogne combination. This enterprise has been the work of the Ukrainian governments, including myself, since 1995, when we practically raised the enterprise from the ruins and approved the first Titan Ukraine programme as the basis for the development of the strategic sector. Now it's an enterprise, Zaporezian Titanogneic, it has the status of a state-owned casino. Effective management works cost-effectively and competitively. But, as always, many sticky hands and, unfortunately, some political structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u24	Thank you. Chernobyl asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u25	Anatoly Kirilovich, I hope that, unlike Mr. Zvaric, you are a man who respects the Constitution and parliamentaryism in Ukraine. That's why I have such questions for you. First of all, how do you appreciate that not only does the President appoint Mr. Drizcan to another position when he is not yet released by the Supreme Council from this office. Moreover, he puts a person in a position not to be dismissed. The second moment that I'm interested in is how you feel about what, in the background, is based on the unification of the President's Secretariat and the PRN, is essentially a structure that should be the second government that is essentially trying to dominate the state and something very similar to that of Kuchma, the Medvedchuk administration of the President. And thirdly, have you personally considered the committee and studied who specifically established the President with these decrees and other decrees in violation of the Constitution? Who is the performer, the one on each document who prepares those documents?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable national MPs, I am once again addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not to allow Ukraine's strategic interests, such as foreign policy, the defence of the state, the Ukrainian Security Service, to be transformed into political shows in this room. Therefore, the decision of the committee is aimed at determining, in accordance with the constitutional procedure, the Parliament, and again, according to the requirements of the Constitution, an appropriate human resources decision has been taken. Both the committee and I will personally do everything I can to ensure that this personnel decision is based not on the political colour of any candidate, but primarily on his professional, moral qualities to protect Ukraine's security interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u27	Simonenko asks questions instead. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I believe that the time has come to identify some very fundamental issues when we are talking about the security of the country. With regard to the position of Head of the Security Service, we are talking about economic security, about defence, and about the strategic development of our country. That's what I'm talking about. The time has come and we have a colleague, our comrade, standing on the rostrum of the main people and telling the truth. He was Deputy Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Secretary of the National Security Council. Anatoly Kirilovich has just stated that there are sticky hands to which he has attached the Titano-Magnieu combination. I wanted the former Prime Minister on the rostrum here to say to whose hands the Titan-Magnium combination had been attached, through which 200 million dollars had been stolen over the past two years, had been pumped through offshore zones. $20,000 was worth 1 ton, $6,000 was bought into their structures, and through commercial structures, the same ones in the off-shore zone were taking money into their own pockets.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u29	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. I fully share the concern of the people's deputies for the future of Ukrainian strategic enterprises, including the effects of titanium-magnesia. I want to inform you that a planned meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee is scheduled to address the issue in the context of economic security, including what concerns the titanium-magnesia sector as a whole. And while I take advantage of the possibility, once again, I appeal to the Supreme Council not to allow the privatisation of strategic objects in Ukraine in 2007 to occur without the approval of the Ukrainian Act on the State Privatisation Programme 2007. This is our shared responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u30	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Have a seat, please. The questions, come up, he'll answer. Please. The question is very specific. In accordance with the Constitution, the President requests that the head of the Security Service be released from office. This is a matter for the Supreme Council to decide. You have a draft ruling on your hands. I'll put it to the vote. Please. [[10:24:37]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Let us propose that we return to this question later when the details and order of compliance with the Constitution are established. A draft Decision on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Korž Viktor Petrovich is under consideration. In this regard, the head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kozub Aleksandar Andriyovich, is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u31	Dear Head, distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine! On December 5th, the Committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy Korž Viktor Petrovich on the formation of parliamentary powers. On December 1, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed Korža Viktor Petrovich as Ukraine’s Minister for Family, Youth, and Sports. On the basis of the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, the Committee has decided to support the application and has made an appropriate draft decree to terminate the powers of Ukraine’s national deputy Korža Viktor Petrovich. The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u32	I'm asking you to support the draft decision to terminate the term of office of the People's Deputies of Korja. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:26:24]] For 370. Decision taken. A draft Decision on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Tsushka Vasil Petrovich in connection with his election as Minister of Internal Affairs is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u33	On December 5th, at his meeting, the committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Tsushka Vasil Petrovich concerning the formation of parliamentary powers. On December 1, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed Tsushka Vasil Petrovic as Ukraine’s interior minister. On the basis of the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, the committee decided to support the application and made an appropriate draft decree on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Tsushka Vasil Petrovich. The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u34	The procedure is similar. You have a draft ruling on your hands, and I ask you to support it by voting. Please put the order, registration number 2669 on the vote. [[10:27:44]] For 390 Decision taken. Thank you. The issue of amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy Head and Secretary of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization" is being considered. Says Alexander Andriyovich Kozub, take it easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u35	The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2670 is under consideration. At its meeting on 5 December, the committee considered the application of the Ukrainian national deputy Lechenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, a member of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” to elect him as a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications. Taking into account that the calculated quota of the Deputy faction of the “Our Ukraine” Block in committees of up to 20 persons is 3.1, and that the Committee on Transport and Communications is working from this faction of the 2 National Deputies of Ukraine, i.e. not used, the Committee has decided to support the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leszczenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, and to submit an appropriate draft regulation for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u36	I'm asking you to support the draft decision. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:29:32]] For 410 The decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u37	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2735 is under consideration. At its meeting on 13 December, the Committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Kulchinsky Mikli Georgiyovitch, a member of the parliamentary faction of "Our Ukraine" about his election as a member of the Committee with the rights of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons. The calculated quota for the bloc's parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine" in committees of up to 20 persons is 3.1. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons has no representative of this faction. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Kulczynski Mikli Georgievic, and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u38	I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the election of the People's Deputy of the Parliamentary Committee, please. [[10:30:44]] For 426 For a total of 426 national deputies, the decision has been taken. I would like to wish you success in the work and the deputy of Kulczynski and the deputy of Lechchenka. Why? And where it says it's for motive. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u39	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! At the Conciliation Council meeting held on Monday, the faction "Our Ukraine" raised questions about the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of the Order of the Supreme Council on the election of Skler Vladimir Borisovich as a member of the Justice Committee. On October 19th of this year, the Supreme Council voted in favour of this decision. The same decision was taken on the same day with regard to the People's Deputy of the “Regions” faction. However, one ruling is signed, the Sklar ruling remains unsigned. Unfortunately, there was no response from the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk. In this regard, today the faction at its meeting and in connection with the situation has decided to block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u40	Mikola Vasilovich! What do you want? So I'm explaining. This issue was discussed at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and I commissioned the Regulatory Committee and the Administration of Justice to find out the substance of the matter. It's being considered, and I've made a proposal to the Conciliation Council -- let me re-supply it to be elected to the committee, and I'll sign it right away. Please. You're demanding a break, I understand, right? I'm not signing anything now. I sign the orders properly registered. Wait! Voted and duly registered by the legal service. They, these projects, are very different, so I gave you an assignment to do just that and I explained it to you. You want to solve the issue in a final way, let's solve it this way. I think the MPs will support it. That's what you think. That's right. I said I'd look at it and I'll give the orders right, and I'll sign it if there's no objection, if there's no point to the point. Nobody's pushing! I'm here to make him a member of the committee. I'm not signing anything right now. Two factions: The Communist Party and the Communist Party are asking for a break for half an hour. I'm calling a break for half an hour. Please. Until 11.05.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u41	I'm asking you to sit down. I'm making information on the first question that concerns the election of a national deputy as a member of the Sklar committee, is about a member of the Sklar. In view of the fact that the election of members of the Committee of Rozganyev and Sklar took place, I would say so, the formal difference between the content of one vote and the other. Because there was one vote on the project, and there was another vote on the proposal, the proposal on the committee. So in order for there to be no ambiguous interpretations, after lunch we will prepare a draft decree where both deputies will be recorded in the same document and voted unanimously. The point is that the agreement between the representatives of the faction of “Regions” and the faction of “Our Ukraine” is for this reason, the document will be prepared and we will be prepared after lunch, and after this document has been prepared, we will take down the colossion itself. It's about the first, the first reason, the announcement of the break. The second reason, at the suggestion of the two factions, was that a break had been declared and they had the right to make a small statement on the grounds of the break. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u42	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine. As a result of extremist statements and the actions of political forces interested in the repression of hostility and chaos, the political and economic situation in Ukraine has reached a critical limit. We will not hide, as a result of extreme opposition, the country is on the verge of a breakthrough. From political provocations, shulers from opposition are already moving to direct physical pressure on members of the Antichrist Coalition. So yesterday, December 13, an unknown gun was fired at the window of our colleague’s office, a national deputy of Ukraine, a member of the Party of the Kovalovo Region. This office is located in the premises of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But since this cabinet is next to the heads of the faction of the Party of the Co-ordinator of the Anti-Crist Coalition, we consider yesterday's event to be an attempt to provoke against the leader of the Anti-Crist Coalition of Raisa Bogatyrov, in revenge for its consistent political and civil stand. The anti-crisis coalition believes and claims that we will not be intimidated by political adventurers. We demand that law enforcement authorities exercise strict control over the course of the investigation of the incident. We look forward to an objective investigation. The anti-crisis coalition, on the other hand, is addressing political extremists who are in charge under the slogan “the target justifies the means”, we call for: stop at the last frontier that separates the country from chaos. We urge all the political forces of Parliament to join forces and make sure that the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Prosecutor’s Office expose this crime as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u43	Wait. Complementary to the application? Please, Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! I'm the fourth caller on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but I'm meeting for the first time when I speak with a deputy, a colleague who's really, really been ardent in the anti-national regime in all positions, and he warns me: don't touch me, don't touch me. Well, I realize it must be very embarrassing. But what puzzled you, the magnetic titanium combination? So let's create an investigative commission that's going to study the working conditions of this combination. Let's take a look at the prices where money is spent on products. Someone's hands are stuck or hands are stuck. But what I'm saying is, I'm addressing you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, that I don't have a team other than the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I'm addressing everyone. Protect me from this jealous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u45	Please. Since the name wasn't called, it's different to treat. If a person speaks, don’t touch me, it can be considered as a request, you can appreciate how. Please. Let's leave this subject alone. We're not going to be around her. I turned, more faithfully, yesterday I was informed by the Minister of Internal Affairs that the shooting was practically solved. I ask you to prepare a protocol to the minister, he will give written information to the MPs, you will receive an answer to that question. I think that's enough. Once again, I explain to those who ask for words. Two factions took a break. They're a tradition that's set up here, and they're entitled to three minutes of information. Kiselov took one and a half minutes, and less than a minute, Catherine Semenovna. All right, we're done here. The question is being considered: a draft decision to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies. National deputy Olijnik Svetoslav Vasilovich reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. On July 25, this year, the Supreme Council decided to establish a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the obstacles to the activities of the national deputies. Those who were interested in the topic already know for sure that all the facts that were to be the subject of the commission were due process. That is, in all the facts, criminal cases have been committed, and in these criminal cases, persons have been brought to criminal responsibility and cases brought to justice, some of them have been decided. Thus, since the legal process on this issue has taken place, it is obvious that the relevance of the investigation has become much less so that this commission of inquiry is obviously not working very actively in the commission of inquiry. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering a draft order for the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry to investigate the issues of the facts by preventing the Office of the Attorney-General from disclosing the killings, which, unfortunately, has not even taken place contrary to the decision of the Supreme Council Committee. Such a situation was a formal basis for the regulatory committee to draw a negative conclusion on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission on the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General. Considering that, in accordance with article 7, part 7, of article 82 of the Supreme Council Rules, the National Deputy of Ukraine may be a member of only one commission of inquiry, I have filed an application for the withdrawal of the interim commission of inquiry from July 25 of this year and I ask the Supreme Council to support the decision to exclude me from the commission of inquiry to obstruct the rights of the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u47	Okay. I think there's a perfectly clear position for the MPs, so let him sit down. And the committee will say the word Sergey Sass, please. Sergei Grigorovitch! Sergei Grigorovitch!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u48	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. At its meeting on 15 November this year, the Committee considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council Order on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of the rights of the people's deputies since 25/07.2006, submitted by the national deputy Olijnik, registration number 2452 of 01.11.2006, in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The draft decree proposes to exclude the members of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council from investigating violations of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies of the People's Deputies of Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovic. The Committee notes that the draft regulation is made in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. And the committee decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council the proposed draft decision to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u49	You have a decision on your hands, the point of the question is found both on the one hand and in the position of a profiling committee. I ask you to support this decision and put it to a vote. [[11:18:11]] For 401 Decision taken. Is it possible that one of them voted against it or not? I would like to take up the question of the appointment of Mr. Seljenova Anatolia Alexandrovich as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In this regard, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Korniychuk Evgen Volodymyrovich, has the floor. Please. Let's listen to the committee. Where's Cornichuk? I'm asking you, you have a ruling in your hands, Anatoly Alexanderovich Seljinov, professor of legal science, and he's been a representative of the Supreme Council before the Constitutional Court. For this reason, since the deadline is over, and there are many jobs, there is, so you have to do the specialist, I ask you to support this decision and vote. Anatoly Aleksandrovich is here – an authoritative lawyer. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. Please. Order 2308. [[11:19:44]] For 402 Decision taken. For – 402 people's deputies. Well, the man wanted to talk, he insists. Is that why you're here? A single thought? Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Actually, Alexander Aleksandrovitch, the husband did not want to talk, but he wanted to say that, according to the rules of the Rules, the candidates appointed by the Supreme Council should be discussed. And during the discussion, I wanted to say that, Anatoly Alexanderovich, we know you as a high professional and wish you in the Constitutional Court to represent the interests of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u51	Please, Bespallian, post facto, let's just say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u52	Boris Bespali, in this case I represent the position of the Legal Policy Committee, because, well, we didn't speak because you actually saw that Anatoly Alexanderovich's candidacy was fully supported by the session hall. That's why they didn't speak. I want to say that this candidate, Anatolia Alexandrovich Selivanovic, has been very carefully considered on the profile committee and has been unanimously supported because he is not a new person in this position since 1999, he has already worked as a permanent representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court and worked in a qualified manner. That is an argument that no one can deny. Well, professional circumstances -- doctor of legal sciences, professor, member correspondent of the Academy of Law, merited lawyer of Ukraine -- no one questioned either. Therefore, the committee unanimously supported the proposal. I think this is a candidate, and that's why there was such a unanimous decision in the practical and sessional room, so I think a warning in this case, well, can be removed. Thank you. And thank you for supporting this candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u53	Thank you. I think your performance will be remembered by Anatoly Alexanderovich. Therefore that ye should not have reported from the committee, but that Korniychuk should have reported. So let's just take this into account. Question under consideration, registration number 2581 of the draft Repeal Order of the Néciporenko O.L. from the position of a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Ukrainian National Deputy Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! In accordance with articles 75 and 76 of the Ukrainian Law on Sudokus, the Supreme Council appoints two persons to serve as the Higher Qualificational Commission of Judges. Last year, the Council of the Fourth Council appointed Alexander Lavrovitch. At the same time, it should be noted that after amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine and reform, in contrast to the composition of the previous House of Parliament, a fully-elected Supreme Council was elected on a proportionate basis. This raises some questions, including Alexander Lavrovitch’s work, regrettably whether I personally do not know him, so I refer to him in the principle of the perception of good manners, but there have been instances when Alexander Lavrovitch left the board meeting — a college body — because his personal position was different from that of a college body. By the time the judges arrived for an assignment from all over Ukraine, you may feel that it was difficult to make constructive decisions. So my determination is only to take into account all the positions of the Supreme Council of this calling. You know, there are two candidates, so we need to identify ourselves in this room. So in more detail, I've explained everything in an explanatory note. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u55	The question is to the reporter? Please sign up for five minutes. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u56	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter! I've come to realize that the only fault is that someone wants to eat. Since he works in this body, he is appointed according to the laws of Ukraine. But someone wants a vacancy there. And they're starting to draw arguments by the ears. You see, there have been elections to the Supreme Council on a proportionate basis, and so the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges needs to change the composition of the commission. Well, dear colleagues, it comes out of the state's legal system so much that, believe me, if this decree is voted out, it's going to be a laughing matter. I understand that most people have voices, but let us, at least a little bit, adhere to the principles of the rule of law and remember that the personnel assigned by the Supreme Council can only be reviewed on the basis of the reasons established by legislation, not because someone wants to “taste”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u57	Well, unfortunately, I didn't hear the question, but I can answer you this way: it's not us, it's not your fault, it's not your fault. You know where the wine is. And I said that there's no claim to non-Cyprus in his plan of work, but some of his personal behavior, that is, leaving the commission, doesn't agree with the decision of the college body and such an ultimative tone of his. So I don't think you can talk about setting up the guilt here. That is not the reason for the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u58	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u59	Matvienkov, socialist faction. Dear Valery Anatolyevich, please tell me that there are really questions for the judges to work on. And we wanted the mechanism and the formation of this commission, and the procedure of work to be much clearer, much clearer and much clearer, because our treatment there often comes back with some kind of discount. But we are now talking about a specific candidate, a specific fact, a specific person. You're saying there's no claim for his work, there's a claim for his behaviour. Would you like to understand more clearly and in more detail what kind of conduct is involved? What decisions does he disagree with? If he doesn't vote like everyone else, that might be his personal opinion. If he's acting in some way inadequate, then let's take a look at what a person's behavior is. I would like to hear more clearly from you than any other reason, and the reason why it should be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u60	You know, not dealing with a personal matter is the subject of this order. All I have said is I will not say any more than I have said, because I really treat a man, because his guilt is not established here, as Jury Bogdanovich has suggested Klukkowski make it in this decree. However, the Supreme Council is represented by two candidates on the Commission. You know that nominees have already been made in this room. Regrettably, in this format, this Council did not vote here, and this was the last nomination for the Supreme Council. Let those who brought him take responsibility for him. I'd say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u61	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u62	Dear reporter, please tell me, by joining this in the principle of indignation, which has just been expressed by the previous two speakers, I will only say one thing. You argue that we have had, political reform has been completed, and this has seriously expanded the mandate of the Supreme Council and so forth. Well, first of all, we haven't finished reforming, we've only had some constitutional reform in part, but I don't see an extension of powers in this part. We can't talk like that just brutally, that's all. thinking that we think that this part is the same. What is more, please say, and if the Supreme Council disagrees with the decision of the Supreme Council, does that not automatically mean that the question of the termination of the powers of deputies is raised? Finally. The committee did not want to invite this person to its meeting, even if it did get to know him, to hear his own opinion. Thus, “we have been told, we have heard that he is leaving the meeting and will have to be released.” Have you not made a previous decision even if you had listened to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u63	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u64	The committee considered this question and there are conclusions from the committee, there will be another reporter. As far as you're concerned. Indeed, I can only agree with you in such a way as to be responsible for my duties, including by working in a college body. And as for your analogy with the Supreme Council, it's not very successful here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u65	Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u66	Vladimir Viezowski, faction of "Our Ukraine". The logic of your statement tells us that this would be a disgrace to vote in favour of such a decision, because otherwise we will have to examine not only the individual concerned, but perhaps many other judges and members of the qualified committee have been approved by the Supreme Council, and then logically they will all be reconfirmed by this composition. I would not want this practice to be, and therefore I would suggest that we not all vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u67	You have the right to your position, and I thank you for that. But there is no analogy here: neither with the Supreme Council nor with other representatives. There's no claim to the President's representatives, there's one representative, and there's seven judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u68	Okay. Have a seat, please. Mr. Andry Volodymyrovich, representative of the Portnov Committee of Profiles, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. Andrew Portnov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In this case, I'm representing the committee as deputy head of the Justice Committee. I would like to point out that our faction will not support this decision. At the same time, according to the commission of the committee, I will inform you of his decision. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered, at its meeting on 29 July 2006, a draft decision by the National Deputy of Ukraine Bondik of the Supreme Council on the withdrawal of Vice-President Alexander Lavrovitch from the post of member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine. In accordance with articles 75, 76 of the Law on Sudokus of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints two persons to serve as the Higher Qualificational Commission of Judges. On February 23, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Neciporenko Alexandre Lavrovič. A new Supreme Council of Ukraine was elected within a month. The committee therefore asked whether to lend credit to active representatives in the High Qualifying Commission of Judges on Parliament’s quota or to appoint new ones there. Taking into account the above, the committee decided at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept as a basis and as a whole the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of Vice-President Alexander Lavrovitch from the post of member of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges and to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u70	Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up for five minutes. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u72	Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u73	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. My question is not to you personally, but to the committee you represent. Part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the authorities of the State act solely on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. Please refer to what law of Ukraine the Committee has taken as a basis for its consideration of the question: Should it lend credit to previously appointed representatives on a higher-qualified panel of judges? Is there such a Law? And if there is no such Law, why does the Justice Committee violate the Constitution of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u74	Thank you for asking, Yuri Bogdanovich. First, the committee had a discussion on this subject, and the committee acted in accordance with article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary, which provided for the order of appointment of the official. With regard to the dismissal of this official, there is no specific basis for the Courtship Law. At the same time, the committee adopted this decision using the following logic: there are special laws, such as the Law on the Superior Council of Justice, which provides for an exclusive list of reasons, such as the release of a member of the High Council of Justice. And it's not possible to get out on these grounds. With regard to the Law on Courtship and the members of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, this Law not only provides for an exclusive list of reasons but also no grounds for exemption. Thus, the committee considers, by granting authority to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to determine this issue at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u75	Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u76	Pass the word to the national deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u77	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Have other candidates been considered on the Justice Committee? Because there are two drafts registered to this important commission, and one of the candidates is the son of a national MP from the Party of Regions who has no experience in the judicial system, but has recently defended doctoral dissertation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Through the Committee on Justice, two representatives were recommended to serve as members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges – Yuri Pritika and Vladimir Pilpenka. These candidates have passed. As for the candidate you mentioned, he's really a young scientist, he's the author of the dissertation study. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to ask him questions in this room and decide on the appropriateness of his appointment as a member of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges. One vacancy is, the other is occupied by Alexander Lavrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u79	Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u80	Dear reporter! Tell me, please, that bill, which is already registered in the Chamber and distributed to the deputies, which allows for the selection of judges and national deputies by the Higher Qualifications Commission, is it somehow in line with our ruling or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! A bill registered by the Party of the Regions of Ukraine regarding the possible representation on the Higher Qualifications Committee of Ukrainian National Deputies has not yet been voted on. And only, as far as I know, is he in order for the next meeting. In this regard, according to the current law on the judiciary, Ukraine’s national deputy cannot be a member of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine forms a composition according to its quota of representatives who have relevant professional and educational data, but one of the main postulates is that this cannot be the Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u82	Andrey Volodymyrovich, there's an invalidity that you said earlier, you allowed. You said one job is still occupied by Alexander Lavrovitch. You can't say that because there's a vacancy when a person doesn't work in this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u83	I'm sorry, I'm just sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u84	Please. The word has to do with the Mountain.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u85	Dear reporter, I'm here, on this side. You didn't try to analyze, really, somehow it just looks like a saviour -- either of which or this person wants to take off and make the artificial vacancy that the political power has presented it, which is the composition of this commission in general. It seems that a person is neither willing to get rid of it nor willing to get rid of it. What was the motivation of the committee members when they supported such a proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, each of us will now have the opportunity to make a political decision on this issue. I've already said, I represent the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, our faction will not support this decision. At the same time, I will now report as deputy head of the Justice Committee. That's the first one. The other one. As for the activities of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges in general, our committee has had a great deal of questions about the relevance of such a membership in this Higher Qualifications Committee, such a composition and representation as it represents. I mean the merit of being judges in the High Qualifying Commission, representing other participants in its formation. And when it comes to voting, we're going to define. And I can't be responsible for all the members of the committee. That's what we're going to define right now in the hall. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u87	Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss the matter? No one insists. Please, you have a determination on your hands, make up your mind. [[11:39:14]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Obviously, the question is not prepared enough. And the committee should come back to him later. The following question is being considered. Draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in April 2007. [[with the agenda "About the state of social protection and ensuring the vitality of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster"]] Reported by Ukrainian National Deputy Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u88	Olena Bondarenko, Faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the Draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in April 2007. [[with the agenda "About the state of social protection and ensuring the vitality of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster"]] I would like to point out that on the eve of the next anniversary of the great tragedy that happened to our people on April 26, 1986, the Ukrainian Parliament has always given and paid attention to issues that have become less painful, sharp, and relevant for years. On October 12, 2006, there was an extraordinary session of the Žitomir District Council, with the participation of Ukrainian national deputies, executive heads and representatives of executive authorities and local self-government of the areas most affected by the Chernobyl AES accident. The session indicated that there is a wide range of problems, including the current lack of solutions to the vast majority of these problems, which are related to the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl accident. The Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster is not properly implemented. In particular, despite the introduction of a whole range of measures to protect the affected population, the health status of the inhabitants of the populated areas of the radioactively polluted zone has a steady downward trend, as evidenced by the increase in disease, mortality, and disability rates. The number of citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster has increased to the courts of all levels. Motivation of these references is the inadequacy of the size of the bills and compensation payments to the requirements of legislation. There has been considerable debt for the budget program to compensate for the loss of property and for the cost of moving to a new place of residence for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The issue of financing a budget program for families with children and the cost of feeding children victims free of charge as a result of the Chernobyl disaster is extremely acute. A solution is also needed to move families out of the area of mindless forced eviction. The problem remains to provide housing for the first-group families and families with children with disabilities, whose disability is linked to the Chernobyl disaster. With the rest, most of the benefits provided by the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster have, unfortunately, become an empty declaration today. So, in order to solve the problems of eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl accident and of fully implementing the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, we propose that we be a team of authors belonging to your humble servant, as well as a member of Mr. Jurassic's faction and a member of the “Our Ukraine” faction, Mr. Zebrowski, we propose to spend the Government's Day with the topic mentioned in April. We are convinced that this will contribute to the comprehensive consideration of the problems that have been caused and to the identification of possible solutions. The adoption of a regulation does not require additional costs from the State budget, nor does it require changes to existing legislation. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u89	Please, is there a question for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. And the word is Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich of the Committee on Environmental Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u90	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster reviewed the draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in April 2007. Daytimely on the state of social protection and ensuring the vitality of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Given the importance of this issue, we recommend that the Supreme Council support the project as a Supreme Council ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u91	Any other thoughts on this? There are no questions and no suggestions from others. That's why I'm putting the draft ruling on the vote. Please. On the basis of acceptance and in general. [[11:44:45]] For 379 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Government's Day in April 2007 is also being considered (with the agenda: "The implementation of public cultural policy in rural areas" is a project by Yavorowski. Javorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, reports on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u92	The distinguished winners of the 2006 election race, our respectable voters! I would like to remind you of the truth that applies to any nation, any nation. And it is that talents and geniuses are born in the province, born in deaf villages, but in the glow of glory they die in great cities. Ukraine is no different from that logic. Because if you look at the brightest stars of our, of our literature, of our art, that's mostly what I'm stressing, most of the time, is that it's usually the way out of the village. I think you've figured out where I'm going with this, that if this is a rural source that we call that that gives birth to people who are talented, observant, people who are able to then come into great culture and great art, if this source gets cloudy, we just don't have to talk about it anymore. I don't think there's a need today to convince those who are sitting in this hall and being elected by the people about what is happening today in the Ukrainian village and in the queen of its economy and in the queen, above all its spiritual development. The fact that this is a decline, that this is spiritual Chernobyl in some way, is absolutely an undeniable question. Ruined cultural buildings, huge brown castles in rural libraries. In fact, the film was completely destroyed today, which had previously come literally to every deafest village. I think that every nation, every nation, with such a situation, really should be ringing the bell and making some radical decisions. Because I want to remind you, and myself, and those who listen to us today, that if they weren't there, you can walk in old shoes, and then, six months or a year later, change them very easily into new ones. Maybe even a little bit, if you'll excuse me, but I'm sure it's true, somewhere not even to eat, but then to get fat. But if we lose something in spirituality, in conscience, in culture, it's lost incredibly quickly, literally within a short period of time, but then catch up with it, fill it up, increase the necessary decades, and if we put our hands on our hearts, it might take a few generations to catch up. I, believe me, I wouldn't want to be overdramatic here, and I want to tell you that the last dot, the last stroke, is to prepare this draft decree for the government's day, has just returned from my homeland a national MP from the party of the regions, I emphasize, a national deputy from the party of the regions, a member of our committee, Vladimir Grigorovich Litvinov. I don't know, there he is, there he is in the hall, and when he told him that when he was in the village, and he got these cultivators who are already nominally called cultivators, and they told him how to live when people get one-quarter of this miserable bet, the total bet is about 500 bracelets, and people get one-fourth. How to live with this ruling house of culture and all that. And believe me, it's this last dot that we've already gotten so much, that on the committee we've actually adopted unanimously yesterday that we need not to listen, because listening -- it's going to be crying again, we're going to hear again about how hard it is, how it means to survive there, and so on. It's government day. It's a government day for us to hear what the strategy is, how we can save this situation today. Because once again, I would like to point out that, actually, when we're taking the budget, we haven't solved the rural culture issue again, we're left with the same quarter of the bet, we're going to be left with the low-income jobs that we have in the village today. In fact, there are very little funds available to fill the library Fords, in fact today the Ukrainian book is published in such a way that it is available only for friends there, a few critics to pass on and so forth. That is why we ask you very much, regardless of our views and our opposition. Culture, the Ukrainian village is a state of culture in the country, it's sacred to everyone. I think it might not interest just a person without conscience and any kind of worldview. Because we think that maybe even together, let's say, in April, in discussing the problems of the Chernobyl, the post-negrobile disaster, I'm very glad that we voted today for this decision, because I headed the first one, then he's not yet a committee, and the Chernobyl disaster commission, I know this subject, and I think maybe even these two issues to discuss in April would be very appropriate. To hear a report from a representative of executive power, as they plan, what is the future, what is the new minister now, is actually a new government and it would be very interesting to listen to them, and someone from the committee will speak from our Parliament. I would very much like to support the decision on the government's day to consider the prospects for cultural development in the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u93	Is there a question for Vladimir Alexandrovich? Please sign up. Five minutes. Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u94	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Vladimir Aleksandrovich, here, also, supporting your proposal to have a government day on which you think, or perhaps this will be a matter of concern. Today, for rural libraries, for example, there is absolutely no money available to buy books. So this is a paradoxical situation: there's nothing to buy Ukrainian books for rural libraries, because, let's say, these tiny costs that are allocated, they don't come to buy books, and this subject, too, could obviously be broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u95	My dear colleague, you have a very good question. I want to say that besides having this tiny cultural budget, today, unfortunately today, there's got to be a college of the Ministry of Culture, and I'm definitely going to go to it and I'm going to break it down that almost half of the money that's being allocated to culture today is doing everything to keep it from being used and write it down at the end of the year. To this day, December-month, the year is ending, no tenders have been made to buy books for both rural libraries and scientific libraries. It's the end of December. It's all done to write this money down. This is another proof that we need to listen to the government, and all of these sharp, dagger questions have asked him. This is our common concern, and I am convinced that these problems need to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u96	Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u97	I am very happy to support the draft decree on the government's day for culture in the village. And I would like to suggest to you, Mr. Volodymyr, that the committee should give the government the task of monitoring active clubs, because, let's say, where I went to the villages, which were a few areas, in most villages destroyed clubs. The managers of these cultural establishments are held at 0.25 bets. You have to have a complete picture, and then you can also demand the money that would be invested in these villages. In addition, I want to emphasize that the village has always been a cradle of Ukrainian culture, where a mass of outstanding writers, poets, political and cultural actors came out. And what is happening today is that the infrastructure of the village is declining, including cultural infrastructure, and it's also overturning the possibility of creating new and new outstanding figures.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u98	That's a good question. There's really nothing to answer here, because I've been dealing with this problem. I just want to remind our voters that there are about 11 representatives of creative intelligence in today’s Ukrainian Parliament, seven members of the National Writers’ Association, sitting in Oświętenko, which we will obviously receive to the Writers’ Association in the very next few days, that is, and we will definitely be. about monitoring, that's what we need to do. If I tell you now, dear colleague Kulčicki, if I answer for the fact that in Russia, the minimum cost of a state's culture for 1 person is about 14-15 dollars, in Ukraine it's 7.5 dollars. Can you imagine what that amount is?Oh, my God! It could go to a movie that, by the way, doesn't. So all of these things need digital exhibits, we're going to force the government to do it and people will hear about it. But the main thing is not just to hear, but to change the situation for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u99	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, you haven't been to the movies in a long time, you have to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u100	I walked, I walked, but, Alexander Alexander, you and I go to a movie in Kiev. And go to the village of Victory, where I have a house, or in my Teklovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u101	That's not what I'm talking about. Run for 7 bucks in the movie.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u102	Ah, seven is the right thing to do. There you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u103	Locked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u104	So you were in the movies, if you know how much it costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u105	Alexandersky, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u106	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u107	Alexandrovskaya, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Alexandrovich, of course, the Communist faction will support this proposal, and I would like to say that it is not only from today's Russia, which is indeed more than a few times as likely to allow for the culture of its people, but also the Soviet Union, the Soviet Ukraine. I want to remind everyone who can hear us at the time that all the libraries were getting free books. Therefore, today, of course, only the partners are able to work, and we must be grateful to them that today there are people working in rural clubs and libraries who continue to bring culture to the village. But please tell me, why did you and your faction vote in favour of the previous budgets that led to this funding of culture? Why does President Yushchenko propose to send so much money to the “mystical arsenal”? Why is this money not being channeled into rural culture today?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u108	I'm answering. I agree with you that examples should be taken from what was good, regardless of political formation and so forth. Smart people simply set an example of the intelligent things that happened. This is my position, and I think it's supported by everyone. As for the vote, well, let me explain. The committee, whose secretary is the beautiful Ukrainian actress, Zaklunna, who sits here and gives you the word, she'll confirm that, representatives of all factions, the committee put within, I emphasize, society, within that meager sum that was allocated, 867 million per culture. I say again, that's twice as much as Slovakia does culture. But within this sum, we've made a reasonable redistribution, let's say we decide to cut off huge funding at the University of Culture, which was headed by our colleague, Floodsky. He takes half of it to his institution, which cooks and wigs even. Because we were in charge of distribution. Did they listen to us? Of the 33 amendments, none are accepted. Because I vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u109	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, this is my suggestion: Since you have taken the initiative to hold the hearing day, I believe that you can be rewarded by the publishers of this book for such an initiative. It's "On the Silk Ices", an anthology of Ukrainian village poetry. Here, from Taras Shevchenk to Drevijanka, there are fine works about the village. And you use it to go to different political parties to find an opportunity to support this initiative: create a library for rural communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u110	This is the Writer's Association, by the way, now gathering these libraries. But what can one Writer’s Association do about Ukraine? Alexander Alexandrovich, I invite you both to go to a movie.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u111	Let me give you this book, but that's what the Socialist Party of Ukraine does. I'm giving you this book. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u112	Alexandre Alexandrovich, this is an ad, you're abusing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u113	Thank you. You have a decision that you may not need to discuss, and it has a mandate to the Government, for the deputies to prepare this hearing. That's why I put her to the vote. Please. [[11:59:40]] For the 220. The decision has not yet been made. I think we'll go back to him another time. Thank you. I didn't break any of the paragraphs in the Rules, and I offered you my word. You could take it and say it, you didn't say it, now you're talking about motive. It's going to be a riot right now, you don't need it. In factions, please make your announcement. Region Party 4, Block Timoshenko - 110, Our Ukraine - 59, SPI - 23, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 3. Who's in charge of voting, please? [[12:00:41]] For 238. I'm re-voting this motion for a government day according to the draft ruling that you have on your hands. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:01:05]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. [[Applause]] The factions, please. It is important that zero is “against”. Is there anything else we need to announce? Region Party 6, Block Timoshenko - 118, Our Ukraine - 72, SPI - 30, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 3. Please. A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "Technologically Loaded Regions of Ukraine: Ways to Get Out of the Ecological Crisis" is under consideration. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Artemenko Yuri Anatoliyovich, is the author of this decree, this initiative. And he will report to the Committee on Environmental Policy, Paul Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u114	Dear National Deputies! By the 21st century, most countries in the world, including Ukraine, had entered into a set of global regional and national problems, one of which was the most dangerous of which was the global violation of the safety of the environment, the depletion and deterioration of the quality of natural resources. By the Constitution, the State has protected the right of each of us to a safe environment and health and to compensation for the violation of this right. Sadly, though, today’s environmental situation cannot be called one that ensures the realization of declared rights. The analysis of the environmental situation over the last 10 to 12 years shows that, despite the decline in production and the measures being used, the state of natural resources in all spheres has not developed a trend towards improvement, but has worsened. As a result, several numbers. Ukraine’s technology - related environmental load is 4-5 times higher than that of developed countries. The resourceability of the final national product is three times higher than that of the world. Land destruction reached 80% of the agricultural area and 57% of the state's total area. Each year, a thousand acres [1,000 ha] of humus is reduced in the soil of Ukraine. Water use is 2-5, and about 10 times more than modern technology. Water resources, for example, are used three times a year by the same River of the Sea. Subterranean pollution has reached a critical limit. Each year, the city’s population produces some 40 million cubic feet [40 million cubic m] of solid household waste, which is far from always properly stacked or damaged. As a result, today the natural state or its proximity is slightly more than 12% of the territory of Ukraine. I could probably give you a lot more numbers, but you all work in regions and you know the real picture of what's going on. The most dangerous situation was in those regions of Ukraine, which are called technogenically loaded -- Dnipropetrovska, Zaporizka, Lugansk, Kharkiv region, where there are more dangerous chemical, metallurgical mining enterprises that are the basis of industrial production. Reasons: Use of outdated technologies and equipment, high concentration of potentially dangerous objects, high wearout of core funds. And all of this poses a real threat to the emergence of technological accidents and disasters with severe environmental and safety consequences. Not only is there a potential threat, but I'm telling you, real and examples can be cited again. The proposal to hold parliamentary hearings was made on this subject. The Committee on Ecology was addressed by representatives of the social organizations of Zaporozhye, various levels, women’s organizations, public organizations, and political parties. But the committee focused its attention, focused on the fact that such problems are not just Zaporozhye, but again, I say, all those areas where there are such harmful productions -- Donetsk, Dnipropetrovska, Lugansk and so on and so forth. Therefore, the committee unanimously approved the decision to hold parliamentary hearings for the purpose of analysing the environmental situation and to conduct them in May 2007. On the eve of this, we would like to hold committee hearings or field meetings of committees on environmental issues, the Committee on Economic Policy, and so forth. Parliamentary hearings, in our view, will help to resolve issues of environmental crisis in technologically charged regions and to preserve the environment. Here was my colleague, Mr. Yavorowski, who said that parliamentary hearings, unlike Government Day, were such a day of crying. Of course I don't agree. But what I'm going to say is that in order for us to hear the public voice again, we need to hold these parliamentary hearings. But at the same time, invite government members, representatives of the central local executive authorities, local self - government bodies, public organizations, international environmental organizations, and scientific institutions to immediately make a balanced and realistic decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the “Technologically Loaded Regions of Ukraine. The way out of the environmental crisis" and to hold these hearings in May 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u115	Is there a question to the reporter, the author of the initiative? None. Have a seat, please. By the committee, Burlakov Paul Mikolaiovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u116	Mr. President, honourable national MPs, the project is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings in May 2007 at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of representatives of central and local authorities, local self-government bodies, public organisations, international environmental organizations, scientific institutions on "Technologically charged regions of Ukraine: ways out of the ecological crisis". The aim of the hearing is to identify the challenges and threats that exist for the environment and populations of the techno-loaded regions and to propose ways out of this situation: legislative, administrative, financial, public initiatives, etc. The imperfect structure of Ukraine’s farm complex has been formed for decades without taking into account the ecological potential of the territories. Morally and physically outdated equipment has involved both intensive use of fuel, water, other resources, and practically uncontrollable discharges of pollutants. As a result, huge areas have created catastrophic environmental situations that seem to have no way out. It is worth reminding that the Horn of Curvature is not only a threat to the health of the region’s population. For 15 years now, more than 20 million cubic metres of sewage, which contain virtually the entire Mendeleiev table, has been in the Kravbasu and Ingulec reservoirs in Dnipro and Yellow Falls. You can talk about Donbas, Zaporozhye, Kirovograd, other regions. There is probably no area in Ukraine that cannot be attributed entirely or in part to technologically charged ones. With each year of such farming, we are approaching a critical limit when the situation is difficult, not to improve, but to stabilize, and the state will have to bear the enormous financial burden of coping with the consequences of the disaster. And at the national level, we need to be aware of all the danger as soon as possible, identify the key sources of threats, and start a concerted and purposeful work to ensure the constitutional right of our citizens to safety and the health of the environment. Therefore, the committee at its meeting supported the holding of parliamentary hearings: “The technological strain of the regions of Ukraine. Ways out of the environmental crisis.” The voice science and expertise agency noted that the draft regulation does not contain regulations and therefore does not need to be concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the decision to hold parliamentary hearings: “The technological workload of the regions of Ukraine. Ways out of the environmental crisis.”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u117	Thank you. The question is to the reporter? Kulchinsky's got it. Please. Stop! Wait! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u118	Please tell me, is the committee planning to hold parliamentary hearings to make the committee's exit sessions in the most highly technologically charged areas? If he's planning, if he's not planning, I suggest you plan and come to Kremenchuk, invite you, and ask about the Kremenchuck oil refinery, which has poisoned the water in several parts of Poltavščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u119	Thank you for asking. Of course, as my colleague Yuri Anatolievich said, this is a whole plan of preparations for these hearings, including the Committee's retreats, which is also a preliminary discussion with the public, with various public organizations, on the acute key issues that today characterize each region. I said in my statement that in each region today is a mass of environmental problems and very acute ones that need to be discussed and adopted as a programme and our vision of how to get out of these situations. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u120	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u122	Is there a need to discuss this? I have one proposition. In view of the fact that this is both an ecologically wide issue and a purely professional question of action, rather, a technical nature that needs to be used to reduce environmental pressures, to recommend the conduct of these hearings on the committee, to the committee with the invitation of all those involved in the matter, to the media, and so forth. Let's make sure it has a good resonance. I'm voting on this proposal along with the draft ruling. Please. On the hearing committee. [[12:12:08]] For 364 Decision taken. Thank you. Break is announced until 12:45.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u123	We continue to hold meetings and consider holding parliamentary hearings. Excuse me, I'm sorry. Not yet announced, not yet announced. Therefore, the question of the election of judges. Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov is there? Please, the question of the election of judges, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u124	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, is present. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice reviewed the submission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the higher-level specialized courts on the selection of judges on an open-ended basis, as outlined in the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 2654 of December 1st of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the procedure I have concluded, I read the names of the judges. The judge rises from the scene, and if there are no warnings to him, the national deputies report it from the scene. Such judges are temporarily removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u125	Sergey Vasilovich, if there are warnings, they will be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u126	I'm sorry. If there is a warning, the national MPs report it from the scene. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling and returned to its consideration after voting on another. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. The committee proposes to elect judges on an indefinite basis from the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine: Blue Galina Kirilovna, fish of Anatolia Alexiovich
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u127	Just a minute. Please, Savosin. Give Savois' word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u128	National Deputy of Ukraine Savosin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Sergey Vasilovich! We have made decisions over and over again after the MPs have been approved on an uninterrupted basis. And the analysis of the candidates in the judge shows that we have a very large number of judges on a temporary basis from 1974 to 1975. Please tell me, isn't it a dangerous trend when we approve of young people who have worked, well, five years in this position, untimely?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u129	These are the requirements of the Constitution. This is provided for in the Constitution. There's nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u130	So let's think about it this way. I'm going to Hennadia. ‘ you read the Constitution carefully, because you are a member of the parliament recently. The timeliness of the election of judges is the norm of the Constitution, and there are no restrictions to which you refer. Of course, it does sometimes raise questions, but today it's within the law and the Constitution. Hence, there were no questions about the name of Doubieva, the Fishman, and there were no objections. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u131	Fedorov Mikola Alexiyovich, Štulman Igor Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Kiz Svetlan Ilarionovna; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Lobovo Aleksandra Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of the district Grjørnek Mikola Petrovich; Dnipropetrov’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Korsun Anatoly Alexiyovich The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Głuschenko Jan Borisovna, Intervich Mikhail Volodymirovich; Odessa Administrative Court of Charity Michael Mikolaiovich, Stas Love Vasilovna; the local Schwatsky District Court of the Maculski region of Viktor Volodymyrovich; the local Royal District Court of Žitomir Voslana Anatoliyovich; the local Kyiv-Svetoshin district court of Kyiv district of Ivanov Irina Vitaliyevna; the local Frankiv district court of Lvova Hindou Oksana Mikolayevna; the local Domanov district court of the Mikolai district of Yakimenko Ludmila Mikhailnovna; the local Mikolai district court of the Mikolai district of Strětzelov Dmitr Vasilovich; The local Ochakov Regional Court of the Mikolai district of Chaus Ludmila Volodymyrna; the local District Court of Poltava, Maksimenko Ludmila Valentinovna; the local Chugiyiv City Court of Kovrigin Alexander Sergiyyovich; the local Pridniprovsky District Court of Cerkasa Bondarenko Sergio Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u132	One moment, please. Name it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u133	Bondarenko Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u134	Do you have a question about Bondarenko? Let's leave Bondarenko now, then you'll ask questions later. Bahmach district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u135	The local Bahmach district court of the Chernigiv district of Novikov Oleg Mikolaiovich; the local desnian district court of Chernigova Clopot Sergio Leonidovich. Local Economic Court of the Donetsk Region: The richer Kostin Viktorovich, Gavrischuk Tetjana Grigorovna, Prince Alexander Evgeniovich; Local Economic Court of the Odessa Region: The corner of Natalia Vasilovna. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next draft of the order by number.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u136	Wait. We have this block of determination and we have to vote first. Therefore, if there is no objection to the deputies except Bondarenko Sergey Ivanovich, whose question will be raised immediately thereafter, I place the appointed judges of Doubiewa, Ribchenko, Fedorova, Štulman on the list announced by Sergey Vasilovich to vote in support of their election as judges on an indefinite basis. Please. [[12:56:55]] For-360 The appointed judges are elected termless. Let us welcome them and wish them the success of a just judiciary. Please. Thank you. Now regarding Bondarenko Sergio Ivanovich. Please come to the microphone or take the floor. Oh, Pacheek. Give me the word of Pachesuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u137	Deputy Pachesuk, Chercassie. Dear friends, I have received a call on Bondarenko, and I ask that you do not make a decision in the hall today and allow the committee to study the questions and to make an additional contribution to the consideration of the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u138	Sergey Vasilovich, what's the offer in this case? Roger that. Is the committee going to take a separate look at any more questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u139	Yes, he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u140	Portov wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u141	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Andrew Portnov, Yulia Block Timoshenko Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'd like to pay attention to the Bondarenko vote, and please support him for why. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian national deputy who has just spoken has a personal conflict with this man, this judge. They had a situation in which they two as individuals had certain differences. There was either a car accident or something, I don't know. But it is precisely this MP, and he has a personal interest. That's why I'm asking you now, maybe a judge to listen. That's the first one. Whether we put it to a vote, because putting it down is taking an unfair stand. That's the first one. And the second. If we stimulate the appointment of judges in this way, that at the last minute someone will speak and take out important people from consideration, then we will not build an effective system of appointment of judges at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u142	I am addressing the author of such a proposal. You're doing the bear service to the possible appointment of Judge Bondarenko. Therefore, if Parliament does not determine positively, we will not return to this issue in the near future. And I'd like to find out things that you don't know and we don't know about on the committee. That's what the committee's for. Let him identify and make his own offer. And then everything will be clear. Please, Bondik asks for words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I have to deny my colleague the faction. Indeed, the matter is carefully studied by us both on the committee and on the subcommittee. Because if there is a complaint, it is necessary to either appear on the committee or file a complaint when examining the judges ’ nominations on the committee. Because right now you're forcing the Supreme Council to make or not make a decision. So I'm asking you to be very careful not to create certain trends so that we don't make decisions about a judge. Everyone to the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u144	I give a protocol commission to the committee, Sergey Vasilovich, to carefully examine the issue and report to the next Parliament when the issue of judges is being considered. I don't think Judge Bondarenko will be offended by such a careful approach to his candidacy, and in fact, we won't make a mistake. Thank you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next draft of the 2730 decree of December 13th of this year. Under the same procedure, the committee proposes to select judges on an indefinite basis: The Supreme Court of Ukraine - Berdnik Innu Stanislavna; The Court of Appeal of the Winnitsk Region - Onichtuk Vitali Volodymirovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region - Barsukov Olga Ivanovna, Legostiev Aleksandr Andriyovich, Receburin Jury of Josephovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir Region - Zlatchuk Mikola Sergiyovich, Alexien Mikolaiovich; The Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye District, Babak Allu Mikolayevna; Kyiv District Court of Appeal - Capochon
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u146	Capichon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u147	Capichon, I'm sorry, Olga Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region - Monastiretski Dmitr Ivanovich; Herson County Court of Appeal - Polycarp Olga Mikolayevna; the local Cherniewec District Court of the Vinnitsk Region - Superson Sergey Petrovich; The local Lyubeshiv District Court of Volin County - Truša Valerija Alexiyovich; The local Petachat District Court of the Dnipropetrov region - Mitoshop Volodymyr Mihajlovich; the local Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovska – Čornobuka Valerija Ivanovich; The local Novosanjar District Court of Poltava Region - Stelchenko Tetjan Grigorovna; the local Kyiv District Court of Poltava - Siyan Volodymir Mikolaiovich; The local Lozov Regional Court of Kharkiv District, the district of Polyehin Andriy Yuriovich; the local Ripkin district court of Czernigiv district of Putov Vasil Ivanovich; The local courts of the Donetsk Region of Nautical Catherine Hennadian, Sklaruk Olga Igorovna; the local court of the Kharkiv district of Kovalczuk Lydia Vasilovna, Mamalouya Alexander Alexiyovich, Meinkowski Stanislav Volodymyrovich, Pelipenko Nina Mikhailnovna, Plachov Aleksija Viktorovich, The pool of Olenna Anatolyevna, Savchenko Angelika Anatolyevna; the local court of commerce of Kyiv Vlasova Jurija Leonidovich, Kovtuna Sergija Anatoliyovich, Cripun Oleg Alexiyovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u148	No comments were made on these candidates. I'm paying attention to Gennady Anatolyovich Soustin, you said 74th. Look at all the women in 84. So there's no problem. Please, I'm putting to the vote a draft decision on the election of these judges on an untimely basis, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:04:52]] For 396 Decision taken. Let us also welcome these judges to their election on an untimely basis. We also wish them success in their work on the occasion of tomorrow's Judge's Day, the festival of their professional. To wish they would never regret choosing this profession. But that is not the same as those who meet with them in the judicial process. Thank you. Good for you. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on “Protection of intellectual property rights in Ukraine: problems of law enforcement and enforcement” is under consideration. Please let Catherine Semenovna Samoylik, head of the Committee on Science and Education, report on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u149	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, me and the Ukrainian national deputy Polodimir Ivanovich, the initiators of the meeting, more loyally, the initiators of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We offer them to be held on March 21, 2007. This was also preceded by a committee hearing. And we all know very well that the problems of developing new technologies, of commercializing the intellectual potential of the nation today are considered key in most countries of the world. In this field of activity, there are still many questions that we need to resolve together. First of all, this is the unsolvableness of the following problems. First. More than 20 times the number of inventions and rationalizers in Ukraine is declining. A small proportion of companies are engaged in inventive and rationalizing activities. Next. The management and administration of intellectual property rights created by the State Budget and the state-owned central funds are not determined in specific cases in which a state order may acquire and use property rights for intellectual property. Third. The transfer of technology abroad, according to the President of the National Academy of Sciences, Boris Patton, to targeted selection in Ukrainian technology by foreign firms and the implementation of such technologies often takes place at no cost. Next. There are no legal mechanisms to prevent applications for inventions in foreign countries passing Ukrainian patents. In recent years alone, 107 patent applications have been submitted by Ukrainian inventors to the United States. Even more patented authorities in Russia as well as other states. This leads to the uncontrolled flow of new technologies abroad. The Criminal Code of Ukraine does not have sanctions for the actions that have been taken, although such sanctions are foreseen, particularly in large countries such as Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom, and others. The next problem we need to find and solve is the protection of commercial secrets. There are also marked gaps in the protection of business information, as well as know-how. Next, an estimate of the value of intellectual property and intangible assets, inventory, and intellectual property accounts. Next, the introduction of more effective protection of scientific, intellectual property against violations in this area, which are becoming increasingly common. We even had an attempt in the state to patent a natural person for the development of the Rings. It's also an adaptation of scientific work in the form of fictitious co-authorship, a publication by the employees of state structures on their own behalf of the results contained in the scientific and analytical materials submitted to them by subordinate organizations, a replication of the results of scientific works without reference to the authors or simply without permission of their publication and so on. At present, the national legal framework in the field of intellectual property law is basically consistent with international norms and standards, but there are still many inconsistencies. And so it was a very important task for us to harmonise national intellectual property legislation with the European Union of Ukraine legislation, which is also a prerequisite for Ukraine's integration of international structures, as well as the necessary harmonisation of intellectual property legislation with the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil and Master Codes, and the improvement of legal regulations. And we should, during the parliamentary hearings, really get information from the first lips, how and what standards of the Ukrainian Civil-Economic Code need to be clarified. It is a very important and extensive work that requires the active participation of legislators, representatives of public organizations, creative associations, inventors, and so forth. There are many problems in protecting intellectual property rights. Today, it is carried out by authorities of the state of executive power such as: Ministry of Internal Affairs, State Customs, Antimonopoly Committee, Ukrainian Security Service, Ukrainian State Tax Administration, etc. But we're, really, and it's not an accident that the conversation tells us that there's an unsupervised baby in seven. The protection of intellectual property rights is implemented through civil, administrative, criminal and customs legislation. The right holder also has the opportunity to seek the protection of his rights in administrative order to the State authorities of the executive branch. And as evidenced by the analysis of the judicial practice of dealing with disputes related to this subject, the number of such cases is steadily increasing and not all of them are making a clear decision. Only last year did the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the State Department of Intellectual Property participate in 335 cases, which, well, by about half, 35 percent more than two years ago. At the same time, changing the application from a natural person to a legal person can take years to go to courts of various jurisdictions. It has long been a matter of creating a specialized patent court in Ukraine. However, the matter is not resolved. We too need to consult in this room. The more effective anti-piracy mechanisms introduced by legislation contributed to the removal of trade sanctions from us. But not all questions are solved. There's still a problem with us being 20 pirates. And Ukraine and Kazakhstan are practically leading. Although the pace of the decline in piracy is positive, it should be borne in mind that the global rate is 35 percent. We certainly have much to do to strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights in the state. These issues are very important and require active cooperation between the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of government. We ask you very much to support the bill, the draft decree for parliamentary hearings. In addition to what the initiators of this decision ask you to do, me and the Ukrainian national deputy, Pololo, are asked from the Hall to support this decision and the National Academy of Sciences, the branch of the Academy of Sciences. This is really what we need today to study and develop a clear system, a state system, a legal system to strengthen our legislation. And I think that after the parliamentary hearings, we will be able to work with you in this session room, involving all the interested people to resolve this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u150	There's no question about Catherine Vasilovna? There's a question. Please sign up for the questions. That's it. Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u151	Dear Catherine Seminovna, there is no doubt that the question of protecting intellectual property is one that needs the attention of Parliament. At the same time, you know that there is such an informal consistency among all the factions that at parliamentary hearings, that is, here in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we bring either too significant social problems, or those that are already, well, for which committee hearings have already been conducted. I know that such committee hearings came from these questions. Could you describe their results and the need for consideration in the session room now?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u152	Okay. Well, first of all, I think the question that we're proposing today is, in fact, quite significant, quite significant. I brought the facts. We cannot stand away from these problems that exist today, and we must protect our intellectual property. As far as committee readings are concerned. They were formerly held in the calling of the past. I can't tell you right now, but the fact that it's the national deputies of Ukraine, that it's the National Academy of Sciences, other institutions, public organizations that are asking us to go back to addressing this issue at a higher level, as well as solving these problems is evidence that, indeed, the problems have not been solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u153	Matvienko. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. He's out. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u154	Since a colleague of Oneschuk asked me what I wanted to ask, I am taking down my question. I've already received an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u156	Baby? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u157	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Although my colleague Onischuk had already asked what I too wanted to ask. But I'm not taking my question off, and I want to propose that this issue be protected by intellectual property rights, an extremely important question, yet to be considered more carefully by the committee. Because just now we've been looking at the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings in relation to the techno-loaded regions of Ukraine, it's no less relevant and important than what you are now, the Honourable Catherine Seminian, report, and nevertheless have made a decision on the committee, and I think that this was quite the right proposal to be Head of the Supreme Council, and in this case it is necessary to prepare a draft decision from the committee on this subject, where to anticipate all the moments that you've reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u158	I want to tell you, dear colleague Easy, you don't think we're going out in March months without any analytical work at all. Those colleagues who work on the committee from your faction, and Tkachenko, and Polohalo, and Kurilo can tell you that pre-parliamental reading is going to be a whole series of actions -- that and round tables -- that and meetings, that and processing will hurt the decisions of parliamentary hearings, that and analysis of how today's legislative base affects this problem, that and how Ukraine looks at an international level. I think I don't want to say in any case that the problems are technological, that they are somehow secondary, but I think today is not just a perspective, it's today, and I would still ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support and consider in the regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u159	Thank you. Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u160	Thank you. Catherine Seminal, this is a very important hearing, of course, the only thing I would advise, is to look at two aspects, even three aspects of the preparation of these hearings. First. It's an adaptation of our internal legislation to the TRIPS Treaty positions for the protection of intellectual property. Another aspect. We need to deal with the enforcement of existing legislation, because, as far as you know, we have criminalized the violation. As far as anyone is aware of the statistics, no one has ever been planted. I mean, even administrative violations, you know, they're kind of weak. And the third one, you know, for discharge. Let us consider what to do with our colleagues who steal the laws of other colleagues and write their names?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u161	Thank you. My first question just didn't count the time, and I let him out a little bit. Oh, second question I touched when I reported it. As for your third question. Sergey Anatolyevich, I agree. I was really surprised to see that those bills that I had written in the past, that I had not reached into, and I saw, no matter what the word, two words had changed, a word in a word, and given under another's name. I went to these colleagues and said, "Excuse me, please, I don't want to offend you and insult you for nothing, you've offended me." Take the bill off. You stole it from me. They didn't even steal it, they stole it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u162	Thank you, sit down, please. Who would like to make a statement? Yeah? Did you want to? Mother wants to say something. Please. No one writes anymore, so I don't give a word to anyone else. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u163	Mother, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, faction of our Ukraine. I'd like to support Katherine Simeonovna and support why? It's not just a solution to someone's pay for some kind of law or little invention, it's a whole new economy in the country, it's millions and billions of money that the state doesn't use today, because there's no point in doing some things. And the cost of that is huge. I can say that in any country, an invention is a great material achievement. You don't have to do combinations sometimes, like we're used to or others inventing other ways, a good, smart offer is big money for the country and for everyone. So I support that this is a matter of the Supreme Council, not a committee, and it should be very well prepared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u164	Thank you. Is that what you have in mind? Please. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u165	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The issue of legal protection of intellectual property rights in Ukraine is indeed relevant, especially in connection with the optimization of preparations for Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. In this context, it is an important task of the Supreme Council to bring domestic intellectual property legislation to the norms of the European Union, to create a system of effective legislative protection of intellectual property rights, to put in place effective mechanisms for its application. As respectable colleagues, we really need to discuss the subject proposed as the theme of the marked hearings. So the MP's faction of the Party of Regions, which, as part of the anti-crisis coalition, actively supports the efforts of the government of Viktor Yanukovich at a faster pace. After speeding up Ukraine's entry into WTO, he advocates hearings on such an important area as the protection of intellectual property rights in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u166	Thank you. A member of parliament was spoken out of various factions. I just want to pay attention to one detail. Listening cannot be less than the value, greater than the value, higher status or lower status. This is a hearing in Parliament. The shape of them may be different: it may be. It shall be held in sessional plenary mode in the session room, not even in plenary mode, because there is no voting. It's not going to go, but it can be held in a committee where it can take a closer look at the problem, given that the protection of intellectual property rights is an extremely important topic, it applies to the whole of society, but in its legal sense it affects about half a percent of the population and state structures that are responsible for how to protect people's rights, because when we have a discussion in general there regarding patents, copyrights, law enforcement or the content of legislation on this issue or, frankly, we're not going to make the topic very interesting for those who don't directly deal with it. And on the other hand, to write it all out so that there is absolutely no confusion in this regard for those who are involved in this matter, as in other countries, we are obliged to do. That's why I'm convinced that we should do this kind of hearing on the committee. This is a deeper consideration. If we need any room, we'll give this room a listening room. But I'm asking you to support this proposal. And we're going to vote on the draft ruling, referring to the procedure that I said. Wait a minute, wait a minute! However, I am voting on a draft ruling, which states that a plenary meeting is being held, so the committee proposes. I'll make this offer first, please. [[13:26:38]] For 344 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the study of the situation in connection with the holding of the election on November 26 of this year, after the election of the head of Kirovgrad and the provision of the constitutional rights of citizens during the elections, is under way, in violation of Ukrainian electoral legislation. There are two projects: Deputys Oplachuko and Klukkowski. So let us give them a word to reason on our position. And from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Sergey Sass will take the floor. The word is "Zlatko Volodymyr Mikolajovich". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u167	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. During the election of the city head of Kyrovgrad on 24 November 2006, individual candidates for the city's head were under pressure from members of the municipal election commission, district committees to prevent the commission from holding meetings, blackmailing and attempted bribery. Such actions are directly contrary to current legislation, such as articles 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 86, 88 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, City Heads. To clarify all the circumstances regarding the issue of the city’s election in Kirovograd on November 24, 2006, it is proposed to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine into the investigation of violations of legislation in the conduct of the above - mentioned elections. Draft regulation No. 22651. The proposed composition of the commission included all the proposals, all the factions. And they proposed a draft ruling, but this morning, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block made an offer to replace Vitenko Olen Andriyovna with Petrenko Andrija Mihajlovich. We, the drafters of the bill, agree with these changes and ask you to support the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u168	The question is to the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. Lachka has a question, please, I was just wrong, I couldn't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u169	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymira Mikolaiovich, of course, is your right to make proposals for the creation of those or other committees on topical issues. And in our Supreme Council, there are almost daily commissions. Do you think it's worth continuing this bad practice of creating countless commissions with the result that has been known? That's one question, and two: last week you tried to break the rules for closing the session already to consider this question, what motivation, why are you in such a hurry? Maybe there's some interest, let's say, undeclared now from the rostrum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u170	There were no declared and undeclared. The point is that today there are protests against the decisions of the committees, against the decisions of the courts. They are leaving today and will continue tomorrow. So in order to expose this situation to the Supreme Council and not to repeat these violations again, I think we need to create this commission. We ask you to create this commission just for seven days to react quickly to these. And by the end of next week, report on the outcome of this committee's review. And as for the fact that many committees, I think we have to look at this issue on the regulatory committee and make proposals to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u171	The gardener asks for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u172	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Sadov. I really witnessed what was happening in the city of Kirovograd during and after the sessions of the territorial election commission. That's what happened in Kirovograd, which is the 100th constituency, where we haven't placed a dot until now, and we've had a squabble in the city of Kirovograd, essentially since 2000. There is no measure, and there was no governor for a long, long time. Thank God there is today. I support the very idea of creating such a commission right across the city of Kirovograd, because there are the most crimes. There was Hilchenko, today is Ushakov. They work in the same way. So do you think the effect in seven days is going to be from the work of this committee, or maybe the terms continue a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u173	I think if we work with you in an orderly fashion, that's enough, because a number of facts, they already are. And those MPs who left earlier without the Temporary Commission, but to empower this commission, we're creating a commission. If you think it's a bigger term. Let's make proposals, vote for a bigger term.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u174	Have a seat, please. Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u175	Thank you. Highly worthy Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues. My draft ruling is considered to be an alternative. Although I want to start by saying that I fully support the arguments put forward by the previous reporter and I want to deny to my colleague Laszko: this commission is very much needed. Unfortunately, Kirovgrad was glorified in the sense of elections, and finally, we need to get a good look at what is going on and why the elections are falling apart. So why did we register an alternative draft decision, and I would like to emphasize once again the very idea of creating such a commission? First of all, it's a little bit surprising the composition of the commission offered by my colleague. Five deputies in total. In fact, one of the factions. But factions have the right to a proportional representation. And for example, our faction did not refuse this right. In this regard, we offered the full composition of the commission. Anyone who doesn't want to go, he won't go. But in any case, there are 4 from the faction of the Regions, 3 from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, 2 from Our Ukraine, and one from the Socialists and Communists. We suggest that Mr. Nicholas Sadowy, a colleague of the Socialist faction, lead this commission. The second difference actually applies to periods. Believe me, seven days for the commission is a little funny. Even organizationally, it won't work. So we're proposing a month with an interim report to be made within a week or two. But do not limit the term of office of the commission to 7 days. And the third difference is probably more of a principle. Comrade Plaček, speaking here from the rostrum, mentioned the need to study all the circumstances associated with these elections, what there is, are still protests against the decisions of the election committees that have been taken there, which in the middle of the night before the elections remove candidates from registration. But the draft decree, which was introduced, provided for some study of the activities of only the authorities there, only the administrations. By now, studies of the activities of candidates, election committees, and other subjects who are involved are already, as it were, separate from the study. We believe that there is no basis for narrowing the subject of study by the commission, and we suggest that we study all the circumstances involved in the election so as not to create prejudice, some aberrant purpose in the commission’s activities. So once again, once again, the idea of our project is completely in line with what we've reported before is three different points: in composition, in terms of terms of authority, and in terms of goals that are set before this committee. We're asking you to support our bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u176	Is there a question for Yuri Bogdanovich? Lashka's. Good thing there's a question. 3: 35:58
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u177	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. Jury Bogdanovich, I do not deny that both Kyrovograd and every city in Ukraine have little to do with the parliamentary commission, because we know the problems that are being done now in the Kiev City Council when there are MPs beating there, when there are absolutely groundless and unjustifiably raising tariffs, there are illegal sessions, but what violations of the Rules tried to raise last week about the establishment of a commission on Kyrovograd raises some suspicion of some interest. Because if it's all right and there's only a desire to figure out how to break the law in elections, then why break the Rules and keep it under the curtain of a plenary meeting without any discussion, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u178	Well, first of all, I'm not breaking any Rules. Second, it seems to me that we have come back to this calling, which is always the case, that perhaps we should add you to the coauthors of the decision, and then there would be fewer questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u179	Thank you. Well, then, all decisions must be taken by his coauthor. It's not like that. The marbles ask a question. Marmazov asks questions. Eugene Vasilovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u180	Yuri Bogdanovich, well, here's where you propose to set up a commission, there's 20 to 30 people to get them to work together. That is, the commission should be here by the time the re-elections take place, that is, when the silence will be like the cemetery. We need to get out of here now. There's nothing to do, it's clear and clear. The committee will be fine in a week. But there's trouble that your colleagues, your faction, are creating a divide, starting with the governor of the area, your Tretlyakov, your Zeynalov, that's where they create an abyss. So stretching it out is unacceptable, and it's important now to come and report what's happening in Kirovograd, the same paralyzed city, the rally after the rally, and we'll be here in a month. In no way can this be allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u181	Well, I would ask you not to twist the content of our decision. You're not going anywhere in our project to find a proposal for a commission to go there in a month. That is not what we offered, nor was it intended to offer. I'm a little concerned about your prejudice. You, as it were, have been offered a commission, but I see that there are certain problems, you already know who is to blame, not yet considering the situation. So this is a bad point of view for a member of the commission of inquiry. A member of the commission of inquiry should be objective, not prejudiced. So once again, our proposal for a commission not to be made up of 30 people, but in a composition that meets the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a regulatory requirement of proportional representation. The other one. The commission can leave at least the next day after creation, it will be ready early, please. But we're giving her at least a month of authority, so that if she has to take a longer look at something, so that she has this opportunity, not that she loses her authority within a week, as suggested in your project.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u182	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I see there's no one who wants to speak? It is, isn't it? At Refata Chubarov. Please. I hope that no one will ever ask for a word again, so we will consider this. Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! I would just like to draw attention to the motivation with which Yuri Bogdanovich spoke. This is a proportional representation of the faction in the interim commission of inquiry. It seems to me that Alexandre Alexanderovitch is honored that here and you have to show your position in order for us, based on the fact that the anti-crisis coalition has more votes, not to destroy one of the fundamental positions that we use in creating the commission of inquiry. So I would ask all of you to support the decision that provides for a proportional representation of members of the political factions within this Temporary Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u184	Thank you. I made a procedural mistake, I didn't give the floor to the committee. Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich concludes from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u185	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Sergey Sas, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Works of the Supreme Council. For example, I would like to inform my colleagues that I had a slightly different opinion on the committee’s consideration of the matter, as shown by the position in the committee’s decision. It's not about the meaningful side. Violations in the elections in Kyrovograd of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine took place. That's a fact. And I think the commission will deal with all of these. My individual opinion applied mainly to the procedure. But in this case, I'm authorized to report the position of the committee itself. Therefore, on December 13, 2006 and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Martiniuk Adama Ivanovich, at the meeting of the Committee on 13 and 14 December 2006, the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council held on 6 December 2006, discussed the draft decrees on the establishment of the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of violations of legislation in the conduct of the elections of the city head of the city of Kyrovgrad on 24 November 2006, introduced by the People's Deputies of Lamentation and Alexey to replace the previously distributed, registration number 2651 from 13.12.2006, and the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission for the Study of the situation in connection with the holding of the extraordinary election of the head in Kirovgrad on 24 November 2006. The project’s authors propose the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to study the situation in connection with the holding on November 26, 2006, of out-of-court municipal elections in Kirovograd, and the provision of constitutional rights for citizens in elections, and the violation of Ukrainian electoral legislation. The committee concluded that the draft decree made by the People’s Chamber of Appeal, Alexiev, was prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the committee recommends that he be supported. With regard to another project, I note that the draft decision introduced by the People's Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in violation of the requirements of part one of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine” and part seven of article 82 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, according to which a national deputy may be elected at the same time as a member of a committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a member of a temporary investigating or temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft decree proposes to select members of a committee of national deputies who are already part of other committees, such as the national deputy Zeynalov Eduard Djangirovich. He is a member of the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the verification of the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas and the possible violation of existing legislation in the Ukraine energy market. Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich is part of three temporary commissions. I'm not going to call the name for the economy, I'm not going to read the names of these committees. Marmazov Evgen Vasilovich is also a member of the Follow-up Commission to examine the situation of providing natural gas to Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas, and the possible violation of existing legislation in the Ukraine energy market. Therefore, the committee decided to propose to the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council Rules, that the draft decision of the subject of the legislative initiative be returned without consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u186	Thank you. Is there no need to discuss? Yes. Well, you've already discussed it. If you have any questions for the reporter, please give Klukkowski a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, dear reporter. It seems to me that we need to take a little look at our regulatory mechanisms for commissioning. After all, the authors of the decree do not take their name from the ceiling, but they take it for their respective factions. And if we continue to do as your committee now suggests, any faction will always break any decision, offering names of people who do not meet the requirements of the Rules. If you want to introduce such a know-how, it'll be a good mechanism to sabotage the creation of any commission. Therefore, if the names are repeated, it is the task of the factions to change them rather than to consider that the authors of the legislative initiative have violated the Rules. I don't think the qualification here is the point of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u188	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. The fact is that the commission of inquiry is actually formed at the suggestion of MP factions. The following or special commission in accordance with the Rules may include no less than one representative per delegation, but if the relevant faction has not sent representatives to the commission, the commission may be created without this proposal. As for your opinion on the procedure for the establishment of special and investigative committees, my individual opinion at the committee meeting was also relevant to the procedures for the consideration of issues, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And today, at a committee meeting, we came to the conclusion that 20 numbers will be considered at a committee meeting, and the committee on this subject will accept its recommendations. So I take this opportunity to invite you to a meeting of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u189	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Sergey Volodymyrovich’s explanation is very useful. And what I'm saying is that in terms of proportionality, one and the other committees are roughly the same. In one three and two, most of them are opposition, most of them not most, I would say that; and at the other six and five, the ratio is roughly the same. And for those who repeat practically one last name, two repetitions that speak of trust in the capabilities of these people. I will base my first decision on the basis of Olatschko and Alexeyev. [[13:47:53]] For 224 It didn't. Then I'll bet. Oh, here's 150 votes. Excuse me. I was wrong. 150 votes required. Copy that. Now there's an offer, let's say, not seven days, but 11 days to get the commission to work, right? You want 12 days, right? Well, 12 days. Two weeks. Okay, for two weeks, for 14 days. I'm betting on a total vote of 14 days. I'll take the vote, please, in general. Please support me. [[13:48:47]] For 262 For 262 national deputies, the decision is made. Please review and report to the Supreme Council on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, let us move on to the section “Other Readings”. Now you and I are supposed to consider for the third time the Law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Code of Land. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u191	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! We're really going back to a very important consideration of the state of the Law on Privatization of the Earth, if you're going directly. And really, from where this bill is going to be adopted, it can affect the economic security of the state. Thus, mistakes are unacceptable. Some more consultations are needed to really make a balanced decision, taking into account the interests of the State. And there is a request to move this issue to Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u192	There's a project transfer proposal. Who's in charge of the transfer, please vote. [[13:50:30.]] For 229 Dear fellow, I remind you that the word is not asked, but written down! And that's the second reading. On the basis of the offer. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the delimitation of the number of cases assigned to the courts and to the general courts]] Please, we have a report from Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u193	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Respectable owners of corporate rights! Now we're going to be looking at in the second reading the same anti-residence law that is going to end a situation where, in the case of corporate disputes, at the same time different courts across the country are taking mutually exclusive decisions that are essentially used to capture property, redistribute property or other illegal actions. I would like to remind you that the purpose of this bill is, inter alia, to establish a procedural rule that, as this law becomes effective, all corporate disputes will be dealt with solely by one court, in particular a commercial court, at the place where a legal person is found, i.e. an economic society in which a corporate dispute is directed. In doing so, this rule will be extended regardless of who is the plaintiff or the respondent in this matter. That is why we have, and Parliament in particular aims to achieve such a legal position when, irrespective of whose corporate rights are violated, it has to seek the protection of this violated right to a court determined by law, which will be a court of territorial jurisdiction, in particular, which in the territorial jurisdiction of which a legal person or other legal person is to be found. Thus, in fact, the local general courts in Mokraki and other areas will not be able to apply for decisions and approvals, including the provision of a lawsuit to ban and enter the premises, and the conduct of manufacturing activities, the release of someone, the release of someone, the sealing of someone, the refusal of someone. You already know that the situation of such approvals by local courts is, in fact, absurd. And that's why people's deputies, I want to list all those who made the effort to do the right legislative initiatives, and there were only three of them, almost at the same time introduced three draft laws -- they were discussed in the first reading -- that are meant to end this process. In particular, the drafters of this bill are the national deputies: Onechuk, Pritika, Portnov, Prashenko, Tsushko, Klavov, Bogotyrov, Polishchuk, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u194	Mikola Vasilovich, I'm sorry, this isn't the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u195	I have time to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u196	You don't have time, you don't have 10 minutes for second reading, it's wrong. Let's go through the second reading procedure. All of this should be discussed on the first reading. Please, why not take into account the positions that the committee offers. And we'll go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u197	Adam Ivanovich, I don't deny that this is how we do things, but I would ask you then to apply the same standard when the bills are reported in the second reading, referring to the fact that at this very time, 10 minutes are being used by many people's deputies according to their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u198	Mikola Vasilovich, nobody. I promise you, they won't use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u199	I completed my report. That's exactly what I was going to say to the national MPs. And we can get to the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, then let's go, with your permission, I will continue to complete the adoption of the question for 15 minutes. Damn, don't you insist? Don't insist. Otterrine, the 4th amendment, doesn't insist. So, 6th Dusty, Pritica? They insist. Hit the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u201	I urge you to vote for my and the powdery amendment why? Because Mikola Vasilovich, reporting from the rostrum, correctly said that this was the essence of the Anti - Raider Law. But if we divide the consideration of matters related to privatization and separate cases regarding the recognition of invalid acts, we will not achieve that goal. So I'm asking you to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u202	So, what's the committee's opinion, Mikola Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, the committee has rejected this amendment from our distinguished colleagues. For what reasons? The point is that, first of all, it only applies to non-corporative disputes, and the privatisation disputes, it only applies to these relations. And you and I know that there are two stages in privatization. The first step in which a State in its body decides to privatize certain decisions, such as the inclusion of an object on the list, the privatization orders, the commission, the evaluation of an object, is all the actions of officials. And the second part of privatization is civil law relations, that's when the state actually sells. So there's an auction, there's a sales agreement and all that. Thus, according to the rules that we have provided for today in accordance with the Administrative Code, the Code of Administrative Justice and Economics, we have divided the jurisdiction of the courts, bearing in mind that public-law disputes, when the decision is being challenged, or acts of officials in the privatization process, are being considered by the administrative courts. And the disputes, in fact, are all the other ones, which are the laws of the farm courts. This concept was supported by the committee and is reflected in the corresponding amendments that are included. Our colleague, Dmitry Mikitovich Pritica, also suggests that Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko unite, regardless of the nature of relations, public-law or private-law, so that they can be tried by one court, the household court. From the point of view of relevance to this proposal, we can agree, but then we are violating the rule that we have established with you as a Parliament: if it is an administrative relationship, then public rights, go to the administrative court, if it is a general, civil relationship, go to the appropriate court. That's actually the committee's argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u204	Yes, the author insists that we vote. I'm voting for amendment number six, Dusty and Pushy. [[13:58:27]] For 323 Supported. Yes, the ninth amendment, Kiwalov, does not insist. Okay, the 13th doesn't insist. 22nd Amendment, Vidrine. Don't insist. Okay, 25th. On page 12. Oh, no? Long, 26th. Don't insist. Pritika, 29th, on page 13. Don't insist. Long. It's a mistake here. 32nd, so. On page 15, he doesn't insist. Yeah, Cruise, 36th. Don't insist. So, dear fellows, we've been through all the adjustments. Please, Mikolo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u205	Adam Ivanovich, one request to you as chairman. Dear colleagues, in preparing the draft for Parliament's second reading, we agreed with the Ministry of Justice, I mean the committee, some editorial clarifications. And I would like to be able to give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Justice so that we can put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u206	No, it's not. Dear colleagues, we will not make any specifics out of the voice. Please, Pretika. Yes, we can re-direct to do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u207	I have a technical note. Here's the 40th amendment, technically released one paragraph of the proposal. And that paragraph didn't go to the right column. This is the fourth paragraph. It's very important, and it happened technically. Mikola Vasilovich and I talked about this before the meeting, and he agrees. The final position is paragraph five, paragraph four.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u208	Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, it's really a single paragraph when you're typing a text, it's about transitional regulations. We can support this proposal from Dmitri Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u210	What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u211	For example, see the “Transitional Positions, ” page 17. Voted edition, paragraph 4 on page 17. I mean proposals and amendments to the project. The text “unaccused court rulings on cases” continued by text.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u212	The fourth paragraph states: “After this law has become effective, complaints of cassation, court decisions in the cases provided for in paragraph 2 of the final provisions of this law are subject to review under the rules of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure.”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u213	Adam Ivanovich, referring to the fourth paragraph, is the proposal made by the People’s Plenipotentiary of Pretika, in the text of proposals and suggestions and revisions to the project, which becomes paragraph 4 and paragraph 4 basically the fifth, respectively, changes the numbering. That is, the fourth sub-paragraph, the words “unaccused court rulings” as a proposal by a national MP, it moves to the right column and becomes paragraph 4 accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u214	So I don't understand, why two different fourths? This is not in the author's proposal. Sorry, this is not in the author's proposal. It's written that it's accounted for, and it's written in a very different way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u215	That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u216	No, Mikola Vasilovich, let's take a look together. There are two different fourths. So who's left? Will Pritika remain, or will your editorial stay?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u217	Respectful colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u218	No, the numbering's right there, Pushes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u219	Adam Ivanovich, we counted, you correctly noted, amendment No.40 of the People's Deputies of Pritika. This Amendment No.40 contains a fourth paragraph in its text, which, for technical reasons, I emphasize, did not fall into the text of the right column, which is particularly approved as a law. Thus, paragraph 4 of Pritika’s amendment becomes paragraph 4 and paragraph 5 of the right column becomes paragraph 5, and paragraph 4 becomes correspondingly fifth, sixth, well, we change.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u220	I see. So it's skipped and it's renumbering. After the fourth one, the fifth one goes and the sixth one is added.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u221	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u222	Do you understand? Yes, Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u223	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the law is truly necessary, the law is really complicated, difficult and I have such a proposal. If Minust really has notes there, today we are trying to make such serious changes and amendments. Let us vote on the second reading again, take it out on Tuesday, and we will gladly vote, but we must see that we are voting in what form. Because this is the moment that we, you know, give the surgeon a scalpel to heal, but this scalpel can be cut. Now that we're fighting the raid, we'll create conditions that we won't deal with on our own. And now we're going to have these moments, and then we're going to take each other's heads with our hands. So I have a convincing request, Adam Ivanovich, that we send it back again, they'll work in a week, Tuesday or Thursday we'll be happy to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u224	Mikola Vasilovich, which is your opinion, more so, you ask for further clarification. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, we actually have enough one day, we could vote tomorrow to agree on all these things. Thus, if we take into account the proposal made by our colleague Matvienkov, we would ask him to be transferred to tomorrow, and in the meantime we would also agree with the committee in the established order and the Ministry of Justice, we would vote tomorrow. Do you understand? It's an anti-rider law. Every day, businesses, tens, hundreds of us put off because of technical, technical issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u226	Okay. Mikola Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I'm just asking if technically you can hand out a new chart tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u227	We can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u228	You can do it! Then let's, let's move on to tomorrow's final consideration of this issue. Is there no objection? I'll put it to a vote. I'm voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u229	A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-14-m0.u230	Move the discussion to tomorrow. [[14:05:41]] For 365 So, we'll look at it tomorrow. As agreed, questions were considered. Therefore, we have reason to announce a recess. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. It's the beginning of the evening's work at 4:00 p.m.
