ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u1	And just so they don't say, the spring is still coming, feeling your applause, the energy is more coming. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the council system, let's register. [[16:04:13]] There are 396 National Deputies cards registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Yes. We have a chance to make a decision, I see. I'll put it to a vote. I'm voting on the Resolution on the Summary of the Rest and Health of Children in the Summer of 2005 and on the steps taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to organize rest and heal children in the summer of 2006 at the Government Day that we listened to. Please vote. [[16:05:12]] For 234 It's been decided. Thank you. Yes, don't relax, we have a few more decisions to make, yet to take. Yeah, are we ready for the next question? Is there a committee? Yes. The question is: Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of implementation of government and local budgets for 2005 and the impact of the current economic situation on the implementation of the budget in 2006. Now I'm going to see what we're planning here, what we're proposing for a rule. Yes, a report by an authorized representative of the Cabinet of Ministers is 15 minutes. The answers to the questions are 15 minutes. Report from the Budget Committee - 10, answers - 10 minutes. Information from the Head of the Court of Auditors is 10 minutes and 30 minutes for discussion. So, an hour and a half. No objections? Yeah, then we're on our way. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski, Deputy Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In March last year, the government, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, carried out substantial constructive work on its balance sheeting and ensuring the real sources of increased social benefits, which were not fully included in the 2005 budget adopted in December 2004, since such social guarantees were approved after the adoption of the budget. At that time, the budget and pension fund imbalanced about 24 billion people. The budget deficit was estimated at 8 percent to GDP. The main common objectives for 2005 were in the social sphere of combating poverty and equalising the social imbalances accumulated over the years, and in the economic sphere, combating corruption schemes, detining imports and improving the control of state-owned enterprises. Today, the Ministry of Finance can report that despite the difficulties of last year related to structural and macroeconomic problems, the main objectives and objectives of last year have been met, and more so, budgetary policies have maintained financial stability and consistency. According to the 2005 results, the real income available to the population increased by 20.1 percent compared to the previous year, the average monthly real wage by 20.3 percent, the increase in income increased the savings of the population and the part of the cost spent on investment. The volume of personal deposits in 2005 increased by 76 percent and accounted for 73.2 billion dollars. Consumer price growth slowed by 2 percentage points to 10.3 percent in 2005 compared to the previous year. In 2004, they accounted for 12.3 percent. The actual rate of consumer price rise was almost equivalent to the forecast rate that was taken into account when the budget was approved. In comparison with the previous year, producer prices rose by 2.5 times to 9 percent and 5 percent, and in 2004 they accounted for 24.1 percent. The International Reserves of NBA in the past year have grown to nearly $29.4 billion. The slowing pace of real GDP growth in 2005 has not led to a reduction in budget revenues. The economy was freed from virtual added value, which did not generate income from the budget last year. This led to a record growth rate of 49.6 percent in 2005 and 62.4 percent in the general budget. In 2005, the government’s general fund accounted for 84.4 billion dollars and rose by 32.4 billion dollars against last year. Overcoming amounted to 905,1 million dollars or 1.1 percent. Only two major sources of government revenue and corporate income tax were over-planned to receive 2.9 billion dollars, with VAT revenues rising by almost 2 times over the previous year and 43.8 percent by income tax. At the end of the year, the outstanding debt for VAT compensation was fully repaid, except for the amounts left uncoordinated and in court cases totalling about 0.6 billion dollars. Some of the government’s income - related articles were not up - to - date due to objective factors. So reduced compared to the planned amount of revenue from the excise collection of goods produced in Ukraine was due to the reconstruction of domestic oil factories. Reductions in revenues from imported vehicles due to reduced car rates and taxes on international trade and external transactions due to changes to the only customs tariff. The failure of the State Budget Special Fund approved by the Supreme Council is 1.8 billion dollars: the plan is 22.6 billion dollars. This is due to technical difficulties in the calculation of citizens' lost savings, in terms of debt to the population for residential services. Unrecovery amounted to 1.6 billion dollars. The lack of congregation funding in the form of a target supplement to an active tariff on electricity and heat is caused by legislative changes over the year, both in payment methodologies and in the increase in its planned volume and in natural gas in connection with the actual introduction of this tax in the second half of the year. Without these articles, the implementation of the Special Fund of the State Budget would be more than 100 percent. This once again serves to ensure that a stable tax system is put in place. However, the increase in Specfona’s arrivals against 2004 amounted to 2.4 billion dollars or 13.2 percent. It should be noted that nominal amounts of tax debt and, so called, overpayments to the State Budget per year have changed slightly, but their drinking weight in income has decreased from 11.7 percent to 8.5 in 2005 and from 13.4 percent in 2004 to 10.5 respectively, indicating an improvement in payment discipline. The 2005 government budget’s cash expenditures amounted to 112.8 billion dollars, exceeding the 2004 target of 33.4 billion dollars or 42 percent. The level of cash execution of the state budget expenditure in 2005 was 96.1 per cent of the plan approved by the Supreme Council, including the General Fund 98.8 per cent and the Special Fund 85.4. The General Fund of the State Budget is made up of 93 billion dollars, which is 31.4 or 51 percent higher than the corresponding figure in 2004. The actual expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget was 20.9 billion. bigger than the plan that was adopted in December 2004. Social spending on the state budget totalled 45.9 billion dollars. a bracelet representing 99.4 per cent of the 2005 appointments. Of these, $15.3 billion has been allocated to public budget workers. These are pensions, aids, scholarships, 27.6 billion. That's right. Practically total expenditure has been made on medicines, retreading materials, food, Chernobyl, social programs, pension insurance for military and military personnel, reform and development of the Armed Forces, coal programs, the provision of prosthetic and orthopaedic products, means of movement and rehabilitation. The implementation of the budget’s social articles allowed the minimum wage to be offset by the minimum pension, thus eliminating the imbalance that deprived the Pension Fund of its own resources for pension payments. The average pension increased by more than 28 percent from the increase in the minimum pension, which was the first step towards the restoration of pension differentiation. The average wage in the budget area was rising at a higher rate than in the economy as a whole, thus reducing the imbalance between wages in the budget area and average wages in the economy. [[Education, Health Care]] The increase in the real population’s income and the introduction in 2005 of budget allocations based on local financial institutions, that is, in line with actual needs, some state budget subsidies have achieved significant savings — almost 800 million. In the absence of outstanding debts at the end of the year for these services. Thus, at a formal rate of less than 100 percent of the level of implementation of these articles, the actual cost requirement was fully met. In addition, last year's economy achieved expenditure on government debt services -- 83 million dollars. The money, the other budget economy, accounted for $141.5 million. This applies to the economic spending of the budget on each of the schedules, the conclusion of contracts on the amount less than specified in the tenders and the reduction of insurance payments on the salary and its increase. The economy of the Kabmina Reserve Fund amounted to 67.6 million dollars. The same applies to other general fund expenditure, which is based on a small piece of work, aimed at enhancing the efficiency of budget use. A preliminary analysis of non-expenditure budget programmes has revealed a number of systemic budget problems that need to be addressed legislatively. This is the first, norm, to ensure the use of funds or, as they are called, the use of funds for budgetary programmes other than budget support costs. This provision is needed once a year for the text of the Budget Code rather than for the annual regulation of the budget. This is a matter of principle, since there must be a close technological connection between the use of funds and the result. In the absence of order, no expenditure was made on 72.9 million dollars. Secondly, the unwillingness of the main funds managers to fully exploit the resources allocated. Each month, the remaining funds in the funds’ accounts amounted to over 2.5 billion dollars. We need to move away from the principle of using money at any cost for a valid number. As a result of the untimely preparation of documents at the end of the year, a single treasury account of 737,3 million dollars was written off. Thirdly, there is a need to clearly write down the procedures for amending the budget. In our view, without agreement with the Government, the Supreme Council cannot make changes to the budget and adopt laws that increase or reduce the spending of the budget or pension fund. Since the large number of expenditures that were made by changes to the budget in November 2005 was not technically feasible. And not taking into account the government's thinking when changes are made to the laws that affect the budget balance is a threat to financial stability. Fourthly, it is necessary to ensure a clear distribution of powers between branches of government and self-government with regard to the implementation of the budget and to adopt legislation on the procedure for granting investment subsidies. This law has previously been passed by the government, and I think it will serve the overall efficient use of funds. A detailed analysis of the budget programmes will be carried out in the time frame set up by the Budget Code for reporting on budget implementation. However, the Supreme Council has sent a tabular report on the implementation of each budget programme and the corresponding accounts payable and payable. By the way, the debt of general budget institutions increased by only 9.1 percent -- 92.9 million dollars. This is at 42 percent of the budget. It means debt, other than lending, the ones we issued last year, and they're supposed to go back to the budget in 2006. According to receivables, the total amount decreased by 36 million dollars. In 2005, the government budget was implemented with a deficit of 7.9 billion dollars, or 1.9 billion dollars, in the year plan of 11.1 billion dollars, or 2.7 GDP. Maintaining the state budget deficit and at an economically safe level contributed significantly to reducing inflationary pressures in the economy in 2005. The government and guaranteed debt was reduced by seven billion dollars, including a direct debt of 4.5 billion dollars, and its GDP weight dropped from 19.6 to 15.1 percent by the end of the year. The implementation of the 2005 budget not only allowed the achievement of the objectives to be achieved but also created a good basis for the implementation of the budget in the current year. Yes, operationally, according to January-February, 15.2 billion dollars went into the State budget, 3.4 billion, or 28.5 percent more than last year. The two-month income plan was implemented by 101.1 percent, the total fund was 12.7 billion dollars, or 104.1 percent to the plan. Local budget revenues have also been made. And those incomes that are included in the definition of transfers are 101.1 percent of the plan. Similarly, the Fund’s income figures have been improved. The actual expenditure from the general fund was 13.4 billion dollars, increased by 43.9% compared to the previous year, and the level of execution was 85.2%. At the same time, in two key positions, the target tariff supplement did not receive electricity, and we received 10 times more than in January - February 2005. And they've already received 81.1 million sums of congregation revenue for gas tariffs, which will allow us to fund all the debt that was in last year's construction projects. With regard to the availability of resources to cover additional costs in connection with the increase in gas prices, it should be noted that by 10% all expenditures have been increased, both by the main cost managers and by subsidies from local subsidies, or by municipal services. In addition, the unallocated resources of local budgets can be directed towards this goal, which is determined by the determination of $1.1 billion in inter-budget transfers. And the cost of an investment subsidy. And the right funds for lending energy saving projects. With regard to the lack of resources from the funds managers, we are asking these questions, if this seasonal is affecting, we are dealing with these issues expeditiously. On the other hand, there are considerable risks of balancing the public budget in connection with the adoption of legislative acts that reduce the budget’s revenue and increase its spending. The “Social Protection of Children of War” Act has the most important influence. In addition to this Law, budget imbalances have already been affected by the laws passed and signed by the President. The amount of their influence is 5 billion dollars. In addition, by 2007, the laws already adopted amount to 18.6 billion plus. And all that's accepted, which affects the 2007 budget is 46.1.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u4	Thank you. Even I would like to say that, over the last plenary week, bills are also being put into the order of the day that balance the budget. According to our previous estimates, since many bills do not have Minfin's conclusions, these, these are about 40 billion dollars. In our view, the rebalancing of resources and the cost of the budget and the Pension Fund will require changes to the State budget as a result of the analysis of the economic performance of the current year and the approval of new macro-indicators and constructive proposals on the degree to which the laws adopted are implemented, unsecured or transferred. Thus, the implementation of the Budget Act in 2006 requires the consolidation of the efforts of the executive and legislative branches of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u5	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u6	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, please tell us about the state of implementation of state and local budgets. How do you understand, I mean the government and Minfin, evil, hypocrisy, or just a lie when Minfin uses such a receiver? I talked to you all the time, and the faction talked to you, and they said, please tell me if the standards in the budget for gasifications and investment will be met in order to complete what we have already started. In 2003, the government of Yanukovitch budgeted 100 percent. You reported that the budget was 100 percent. Why is there not a penny of money today, and instead, through the Treasury on December 14, money was taken away. Is this called budget execution? I think we're dealing, of course, with cheating and juggling approaches, and we can't do that. We voted in favour of this budget visually, we thought you were.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u7	Thank you for asking. I've stopped short in my report because in 15 minutes we can't estimate all the programs, their thousands of budget programs in the budget, one thousand. Hence, everyone needs an appropriate response. In addition, with regard to the availability of funds and the cost of gasification of objects. That was last year because we only changed in March and defined this type of tax in March 2005 and worked in the second half of 2005. We only got 30% of the cost plan, but in January, we got 81.1 million dollars in January and January, it's already this year. And in order to use the funds that were approved by the government for gasification of population sites, we wrote that these funds are primarily aimed at those objects that began in 2005. I think we're going to be introduced. We provided funding last year 100 percent. Is it from the Reserve Fund or from where? No, it's 100% investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u8	In short, you realized that all the things that we owed you in 2005, we're going to give up in the sixth, but at the expense of 2006. School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u9	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to go back to the captors again, to the kind of money that, in principle, we have all the attitudes that we have as a majority MP, so far as majors. And as a representative of the 121st constituency, this is the westernmost point of Ukraine. So far, with enormous effort, we have been able to break out the debris into the gasification of another Westernmost bridge region in the country, and so far there are some, I don't know, games. I've brought to Minfin's attention several times before that the allocated funds for the purpose are clearly, well and purposefully written out, they're being diverted by local authorities, that's on the one hand. On the other hand, there is always a third of what has been agreed. No, we can play this until the end of the game, but somehow, we're talking about a gas crisis, and we have the westernmost regions that are just not gassed. There, indeed, people somehow did not survive the gas crisis, having their own, or their own, Ukrainian gas deposits. Can we ever solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u10	Thank you for asking. It's similar to the past. The point? What we did last year, in March 2005, was to change the taxation system, to define a new type of tax -- a two-percent gas tariff collection, and actually it started to come because it was a new tax, it wasn't an instructional base in the second half of 2005. As a result, we could only get 30 percent of the planned volume, and since this source is in the special budget fund, i.e. we can't re-credit at the expense of the general fund, so the expenditure was financed by 30 percent. And in 2006, we continued this rule, it's already in the tax system, and the stable tax base gave us 81 million dollars in two months. I think we're going to go over the plan of the one that was set this year. And I've already said that we've decided that the government is going to use these gasification-related funds, where we've predicted that the funds are primarily projected for completion of the initial construction in 2005, so we're going to fund this creditor that was last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u11	Quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u12	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! A fast, socialist faction. Anatoly Ivanovich, I have been addressing you as an expert in this field for many years. Please tell me, if you come out of the last line of your report's name, have you ever noticed that there is a positive trend today to a new concept of budgeting? I mean, when we adopt the amendments to the Constitution on the second part, on the autonomy of the possibility of local government, when there's a real way of using the possibilities of business, the State budget and the local budgets to ensure the financing of local self-government. That's the first one. And the second. True to what was in the media, ten percent of what was obtained from the sale of “Crimsonstali ” will be directed to the development of the city of the Horn of Crimson. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u13	Thank you. You know that the budget code adopted in 2001 has already taken a number of steps that you said relate to autonomy in the budgetary process of local self-government. So there's a certain amount of income behind them, there's a transparent procedure for determining inter-budget transfers. The second part of this question is after the constitutional or constitutional changes have been adopted and we will make changes to the Budget Code accordingly. And with regard to the revenue from the "Cruvoristals", you know that the Supreme Council has passed the law, it's signed by the President, one percent, it's 200 million. The bracelet will be aimed at solving the social environmental problems of the Horn of Curve and the areas surrounding it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u14	Colonies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u15	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to pass the word Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u16	Mikola Nightshenko. It's been a while since you heard the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u17	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the topic of our conversation today is the implementation of the 2005 budget, but there is also a second part of the “Impact Economic Situation on Budget Implementation 2006”, which you have been somewhat shy about. During this time that we have adopted the budget, the government has concluded gas agreements, renounced barter schemes and increased the cost of gas transit across Ukraine. That's about 4.6 billion dollars if you throw away the cost of gas to fill the pipe. Why don't you talk about it as a source of additional budgeting to cover the expenses of the Children of War Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u18	Thank you. The thing is, even if you say 4.6 isn't supported by any calculations. We have no balance of NAKA “Naftogazu”. When we see the full balance, we can tell you how much extra resources we can get out of here if we get it. And the second question. 4.6 is not enough to cover the expenditure under the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War, as there are 11 billion children. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u19	It's Anatoly Ivanovich, if you give everyone an immediate pension. And it says, "Secondly," that is, you can give it, you can not give it. So there's no 11 billion. You certainly won't, no $11 billion. It's not set up there. Tissue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u20	Thank you. Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine Anatoly Ivanovich, I have two questions for you. In the past year, substantial investment costs were allocated, but the “disease” remained old. At the end of the year, these funds were certainly not available to the local authorities, and local authorities have often signed acts that have led to the discovery of a number of criminal cases by the prosecutor’s office. The second question. You've rightly noted that the method of paying back the population's contributions to the Savings on the basis of the compensation for the municipal payments was unsatisfactory. How do you see the outcome and the situation especially for the rural population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u21	Thank you. As far as distribution and spending of investment subsidies are concerned, those coming from the general budget are concerned, unfortunately, there is a negative practice, and we have more serious analytical notes from the Audit Authority, audit of these two programs. It contains information that is included in lists of objects, even that do not exist at all. So I think we need to make appropriate changes to the Budget Code or to adopt a separate law on how to grant investment subsidies, where we clearly prescribe responsibility and a full chain of funds on this issue. And that way we can avoid these misunderstandings in the future. As for compensation for savings deposits, unfortunately, this program did not produce the expected results last year. We had originally planned a fairly serious resource that could be used for this purpose, but in fact we were able to provide only about 1.3 billion dollars, to cover these undervalued savings in housing and utilities. We've continued this year's budget rule last year, and I think we can still get 300 million dollars to finish this job. In general, we do not think that we can apply such calculations in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u22	Nastyek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u23	Thank you, Mikola Onichtuk, faction of the Political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the constituency of “Our Ukraine”. Anatoly Ivanovich, two questions, if you please. First. If possible, give more details on what the gasification situation looks like in the current year, referring to the costs already accumulated for the purpose of gasification and the state of preparation of the government's draft decision on this issue. And the second. As you estimate the state of the State budget in the current year, in terms of income and expenditure and how they relate to macroeconomic indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u24	Thank you. After the gasification, I said we have a real 81.1 million to date. That's 450 planned dollars. I think by the time we get this 450, we'll be overrun by the end of the year. We have established an order in preparation for those objects to be approved by the government. And I think that the Ministry of Economics, maybe Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich, will tell us where we are in the situation of looking at objects that will be financed by this source. And the state of the government's income. I've already said that in two months, we have the whole system, both the state budget, and the local budgets, and the pension fund, they've completely dealt with the plans that we've written down. The issue of macro-prediction can be addressed by the results of the implementation of the budget in the first quarter and by taking into account the tariffs and the stage in which they are introduced into residential-communal energy services in 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u25	Is there a nigger? Yes. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u26	Thank you. Vladimir Černjak, “PRA-PRP block”. Dear Anatolie Ivanovich, the systemic disadvantages of the state budget include the lack of a balanced state and local budgets. And it's an old disease, it's not solved. In the past year, and in the current year, there is good reason to believe that it is not being resolved. How do you feel about what you need to do to solve this problem? Not every time you make a decision, but you decide, for example, by making changes to the Budget Code. To the State Budget Act of Ukraine for this year. Maybe we should ask questions about fiscal federalism. We have all kinds of federalism, and there's a lot of talk going on. I think the main question right now is budget federalism, do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u27	I don't think so. I believe that the main problem with our budget is that we cannot provide the financial resources of the consolidated budget for the commitments made in the laws. That's our main problem. If we want to achieve balance, we need to completely review legislation and balance it, that is, balance these positions. And then, if we balance the whole system, then it'll be easy for us to distribute the funds between the local budgets, among the main funds managers, among the top priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u28	Porovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u29	Dear reporter, Mikola Porovski, faction of the Rebirth Party. I found no regret in the information materials, information on the implementation of the budgetary programmes in the transport sector, particularly the “Travelways”. Do you know that the Crucifixion in the State Budget provides six billion dollars out of its income? At the same time, today, the debt of all budgets is equal before the Crucifixion for the transport of the population, pensioners, other pensioners, 160 million dollars. What is the mechanism for the settlement of the Crossroads, which, by giving almost everything of its profits, also carries the burden of the debt of the local budgets? After all, this has to do with the wages of railways, which has now moved from fourth to fourth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u30	Thank you. We have in our budget some of the expenses planned in the local budgets, this is about the cost of transportation in public transport and electricity, in suburban electricity. And second position, that's what we have in Minosvita the appropriate program for compensation for the free passage of students. I think there's, really, a problem in passenger accounting and, I think, given the availability of creditors' debt, the principal of the funds should make appropriate proposals for the use of those budgetary resources that he generally has. And the second position in terms of the revenue or payments of the Railroads to the budget. What I'm saying is that for 2006, the railway was financially projected to cut payments to the budget. One tax on the part of the revenue that falls under the national budget is $1.1 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u31	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Have a seat. Sophia Pauline has long been ready, at the start of the report. Please, 10 minutes from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Questions about the state of implementation of the 2005 state and local budgets and the impact of the current economic situation on the implementation of the 2006 budget have been suggested by the Budget Committee for consideration by the Supreme Council. Looking at what happened in 2005, we can clearly say that there is no balanced economic policy in the government. Everything that happened in the 2005 budget and in the economy is related to only one thing — the thoughtless, economically unwarranted fulfillment of post-election or electoral promises. And this, in turn, led to the fact that, with the general increase in the revenue of the state budget, unfortunately, people didn't feel that their lives were better now. How does a citizen feel about authority? There's only one sign. If he sees that he has more money in his pockets and that he can buy more for this money, pay for the services, the citizen says, “I live better, the authorities work for me.” If a citizen does not feel that way, it means that authority does not work for a person. That's why we're concerned that when the government budget rises by more than 40 percent, the budget today can't channel citizens' support costs. It can't direct the cost to the basic programs, which are the basic tasks that Ukraine faces. Why this is happening. Let's see where the government budget money is spent in 2005 and where it's going in 2006. There's money in the budget and there's enough. But today they're closing the pension deficit. The government has not adopted any instrument, no legislation to legalize the economy. Instead of legalizing the economy and giving economic incentives in the first place to develop our production, the economy is even more in the shade. Today, official money accounts for 25 percent of the total income that citizens receive. 75 percent in the shade. And that means that businesses don't trust that kind of economic policy, that kind of government, or that kind of authority. This is a problem. Because in 2007, under these conditions, we can't do anything about the pension fund. No one can raise pensions. No one can increase the welfare of citizens. And that's why today we need to look at what happened in 2005 and what we should do with the 2006 budget. Today, there are several dangers in 2006. First of all, it's a change in the value of energy carriers. They argued for a long time: whether or not it affected the budget. It's working. Of course, it does. It's because we finance from the state budget all the budget institutions that pay for utilities, energy services. And if the cost of gas goes up, we have to transfer more money so that we can completely close that debt. Today, citizens feel that since January 1, 2006, they have already received bills from utilities that increase the cost of gas. And that means that citizens will lose their income. If people lose their income, the state is obliged to compensate the damage to a citizen. This means that you and I need to consider transferring additional subsidies to the population so that citizens do not lose their money. Are there any suggestions from the government on this issue? But there's no offer. Unfortunately, the answer to our letters to the Cabinet was only one: the indicators remain the same, the cost of the gas will remain the same. But in fact, life speaks very differently. And these things affect the state of implementation of the 2006 budget. These things affect the welfare of citizens. The 2005 budget showed that even when the funds were in government accounts, it could not be used effectively. Thus, the funds of the Environment Fund remained unused, and nearly 100 million remained in the State budget. And that's under the conditions that people ask for on their knees: give them clean drinking water, finally let them breathe clean air. But at the same time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as the principal manager of the funds, has never used the 100 million dollars that were budgeted next year. This is a complete irresponsibility in the lives of people. It's irresponsible for your job. It's impossible to deal with. The same was true when money from sales came into the State Budget. during the privatisation of the “Criminals”. The government was simply not prepared to propose strategic directions for the use of such funds for investment development, and so part of the money went to eat because the corresponding debts to the Pension Fund were closed. This problem will await us in 2007. Untimely and incomplete implementation of planned expenses has led to a deterioration in payment discipline. To date, as of January 1, 2006, the government has never been able to make use of a $1 billion 100 million money, and think about it, my dear colleagues, 1 billion 100 million remains at the expense of the government. The government says it's a good thing we didn't spend. That's bad, because behind every line we put money on, the fates of the people and the fate of the country and many areas. Why is it not a funded transfer to municipal property that should be transferred from mines that were destroyed in the city of Makiyivka, the Donetsk region? Why was this program blocked? What, our utilities no longer need such funds? They don't have to fix the housing fund anymore? No, you do, but at all costs, I can see by the signs, the color begins, one is given the cost, the other is not given the cost. There is another reason why the Law on the State Budget 2005 has not been implemented and has not been implemented carefully. During the reporting period, the government made decisions that did not meet the requirements of the State Budget Act and the Budget Code. I have already set such a vivid example of smuggling sugar purchased at the expense of the state - owned enterprise, and changes have been made to the government’s respective decisions, which are an example of neglect and irresponsible treatment of the law and its obligations. I'm not going to focus on this case right now, but I can say that the money that was included in the state reserve, as the money that was obtained from the sale of the sugar that was without the owner, was never accounted for in the State Budget. And today, the Ministry of Finance is trying to accuse the Supreme Council and MPs of refusing to allocate any extra money to repeat this procedure with the sale of sugar. And that's what the whole Internet is all about. When it comes to making changes to the State Budget Act, which the government learns about on television, the problem is not in the Supreme Council, but the problem is that everyone in the government has become involved in political struggles and elections, and they have forgotten that even while they remain in charge, no one in the government has been obliged to work, to work in the budget, to engage in economic activities. And even when ministers say that they go on vacation two days before the election, it just sounds insolent, because everyone is actually doing the election today. We don't have the state budget allocated until now. We have set aside 2 billion dollars for the transfer of funds to local budgets to order local agriculture, to build schools, to hospitals. To date, no cash has been transferred to the local budgets, no cash has been transferred to the residential sector until now. We have foreseen money to prevent inflation in food products, but this money is still in the treasury accounts, and so far it has not been available to support the agricultural producer. So if there's a problem -- bad, when there's no money, it turns out that our government has a completely different problem -- bad when there's money. What can be done to prevent the economy from breaking up in 2006? But simply meet the clear requirements of the State Budget Act. This is the only way to keep the economy from falling, to get a little bit out of the polls, and to do what you have to do is do what you have to do, do what you have to do. We have another problem that almost no one is talking about today – there is actually a labour dispute between the Cabinet of Ministers, the All-Ukrainian trade unions, trade unions and employers' organizations. And this could lead to another balancing of the State Budget Act. We have proposed from the committee an appropriate draft regulation proposing to the government that a number of measures should be taken immediately to prevent budget imbalances and to do everything possible to ensure that the economy of Ukraine in 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u33	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u34	So that the economy in 2006 in Ukraine was stable and people felt that there was power in Ukraine and that this power was working on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u35	Thank you. Please register, 10 minutes per question, Ludmila Pavlovna. Let's sign up. Show me, please. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u36	Ludmila Pavlovna! [[Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine"]] One brief question and I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Vladimir Costinovich, to move the barracks of the city of Zaporozhye. [[Paul Kickas]] For two years, the funds were set aside. There's not a penny this year. How can I act, how can I act, because these funds have been recorded in the budget? Paul Kickas of Zaporozhye Please pass the word to your colleague Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u37	Bronnikov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u38	Ludmila Pavlovna, was there an objective reason for delaying subsidies to prevent technological catastrophes? And in your opinion, isn't that why Alchevsk and the other frozen cities appeared to us in the winter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u39	As for the first question. If it wasn't funded in 2005 for the transfer of barracks, I suggest the following. We expect the government to order the distribution of subsidies this year, the same subsidies, and we will necessarily write down a committee that will first close the debts of previous periods and then start sharing new money. This will be just in relation to those who have never been given the funds to move people. As for the use of money in 2005, subsidies, including Alcevsk. We analyzed in detail, Vladimir Kostinović, what happened in Alcevsk. It was there that the money was spent, and 420,000 were left unused, and they returned to the State Budget at the end of the year. Why? Because the money was for the renovation of the cooperative house, equal to 420,000. According to experts, this amount would have been sufficient to prevent an accident in Alcevsk, since certain parts of the water supply and heating system had to be replaced. This money would be enough to eliminate or prevent an accident. Unfortunately, this situation has become possible because local authorities, local administrations are completely misunderstood at work with money, and the money for 3-4 months was on the accounts and only after a certain period of time were the administrations aware of it. The government didn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u40	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u41	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, first of all, that list of the vacchanals that are going on around the budget can be continued. In particular, I could add to this how much the war was fought to finance article 57 of the Education Law and it turned out that in December some regions had money come back and three days later came back. Although this money was fought for a long time. But another question I'd like to ask. You know very well that in many local budgets today, there is a complete ruin because, indeed, the situation is extremely difficult. What do you think, as an expert in this field, is it not time for the Supreme Council to take note of the overthrow of this budget pyramid in order to start the process of creating budgets from local budgets and then to go up? Because maybe then it'll be an incentive for the government at all levels to deal with, well, the real problems of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u42	Dear Peter Stepanovich, we have a registered draft of the Supreme Council Regulation, which I am the author of, regarding the continuation of this session even after March 26, because I believe we are obliged to amend the budget code and prepare the country for budgetary reform. Because constitutional reform has begun, but no money will be included in the budget if we do not change the budget code. And that's why our proposal will be: we suggest that the Supreme Council continue its work. I think the MPs will respond with understanding and will fulfill their duty to the citizens. We can build a beautiful, transparent, understandable and money-based system of local self - government. This requires two things: first, political will, desire and knowledge. And I'm sure we can do that, because these kinds of work and projects already exist on the committee today, and we're going to hand them over to the Supreme Council. I ask you very much to listen to this offer. I'm sure this is the only chance to change the situation in the country -- to give money to those who earn it, not to those who want to lift it up and distribute it by 20,000 to get people to come here to repair the elevators and get money in the Cabinet of Ministers. It's an outrage, it's a disrespect for both its people and local self-government, and the territorial communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u43	Suskevich, I can't see. Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u44	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Ludmila Pavlovna, please tell me as a specialist. We have a problem not only with the allocation of funds, but also in gaining them to the recipient, and in particular, there are industries, such as agriculture, where they say the grant will come at the end of the year, in the fourth quarter, so I'm sorry, it's already like a dead man's hangover. Please tell us what we need to do, and first of all what we need to do to the Cabinet of Ministers, so that the money that needs to come on time comes on time, not when an official wants it. In any event, the members of the People's Block of Lithuania are concerned about this, including agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u45	Dear Vassiliy Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this figure, at the beginning of the year, there were over 11 billion dollars in treasury accounts. And these funds are constantly in circulation, directly in the knowledge of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the government doesn't use this money, it sits on it like some people do in a written bag. And in that case, they're not going to finance the cost at the beginning of the year, because everything's going to be moving by the end of the year. The government is artificially inhibiting economic development. He's artificially inhibiting the execution of government budget orders. And I'm sure there's only one thing we need to do. Today, they answer: Why do they keep the money in their accounts? Why do they need them? Who wants to distribute them after the election? Who wants to do what with them? There are calls for a change in the budget after the election. I can say he's balanced today. That this budget is imperfect, but it's also good, that it's a development budget and that we have to spend money on the direction that we set out here in the hall, including agriculture. And to support today, not at the end of the year, because then you have problems using that money. I did not give an example, but I must now say in this room that during December, for example, programs such as School Bus, “Computer for Rural Schools” have been implemented. So all the social programs are moving by the end of the year. Why? Because then you don't have to do them. But the law enforcement agencies are funded from day one to 100% -- that's the priority of people who are sitting and planning to spend money today. I'm going to the government and please make some changes to the budget schedule and give it to those who need it more today than the government does to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u46	Mikola Sadowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u47	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I have a brief question, and after that, I pass on the word to Shibko. Which usage control is installed. For example, “Alexandriaugil ” received about seven million dollars. Where did they go? Is there any control or not? May I have a word with Shibku?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u48	Quick, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u49	Ludmila Pavlovno, I am asking you to hear this information on the materials you gave us, thank you for it. Once again, however, this information material refers only to the State Budget. Nothing is said, like Anatoly Ivanovich, but how are local budgets formed? What are the trends today that are the figures for today? Who forms these local budgets? Is it even possible to carry out the reform that we are looking forward to today? That's what this is all about. Don't we have statistics on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u50	I'll start with the last question. Unfortunately, on January 1, 2006, we did not have 14.2 local budgets. So 98 local budgets are not implemented. We have a mechanism by which the government can provide, the Ministry of Finance, money to those budgets that haven't implemented the plans, so they don't suffer from it. We've developed this mechanism on the committee, so God forbid the local budgets are affected by reckless planning. But what you're talking about is changes to the Budget Code. And we want to bring them in. And we are confident that this same Supreme Council has the political will to carry out such a reform. And so we suggest that we hold a meeting after March 26. That's the first question. As far as control is concerned. Controlling the use of funds is a very painful issue of our budget. And we've been trying to predict in 2006 the following, that all of the ways in which development funds are used are fully agreed upon in our committee. Unfortunately, the government is not responding. He still makes decisions today, not agreeing with the committee. Although we do work around the clock. Nobody's gone anywhere. As soon as the papers arrive, the next day we try to get a quick look at them. And we're making recommendations to the government that are flawed and that these documents should be removed. So this year we're going to control every penny that goes down. And ask the government about using these funds. This is the possibility today in our 2006 budget. The important thing is that the government acts by law, not by voluntary means, and does not violate legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u51	Have a seat, please. The word is given by the Head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine, Valentin Costinovich Simonenko. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, members of the government. The success of Ukraine's State budget in 2005 has already been heard from many statements by members of the Government and media comments. The Court of Auditors, as an independent monitoring body, has concluded, on the basis of its analysis and monitoring of the rapid reporting of public entities, that Ukraine's State budget for 2005 as a whole has not been implemented in terms of income or expenditure. I would like to emphasize that the main reason for the budget failure last year was the poor budgetary policy implemented in the context of poor economic activity. GDP growth reached 3.2 times lower than planned. The uncertainty of public policy, and, of course, its lack of ownership rights, small business, the revaluation of the bracelet, has led to a significant deterioration of the investment climate and to the deterrence of structural changes in the economy. Foreign investment had to become the main engine of economic growth, but it did not, although according to Goskomstat, foreign capital growth was 7.3 billion dollars, which was 3.3 times higher than in 2004. This is said to be true, but $5.8 billion is not a capital investment in the economy and is due to the transfer by non-residents of ownership rights to the Criovorostal and the Aval Bank. The real increase in foreign direct investment has declined by almost a third. From 2.3 billion dollars in 2004 to one and a half billion dollars in 2005. [[Is that what you're ……]] The substantial increase in social benefits has stimulated the inflation processes that the Government has tried to cover through increased imports. As a result, inflation did not hold back and, as a result, for the first time in six years, foreign trade in goods had become negative at $1.8 billion. In the current fiscal year, the situation is not improving, the delayed inflation expectation is beginning to decline, and the consumer price index for January-February 2006 is 103 per cent. As a result of January, the real increase was 0.9 per cent and the output of industrial products even decreased. At the same time, the adoption of the 2006 State Budget provides for an increase of 7 per cent of GDP and 9.5 per cent of industrial output. Uncertainty with natural gas prices, the pay system, other problems have prompted the economy to reverse its economic and social development projections for 2006. It's been a month and a half, what's next? It is repeated, but is already in the frame of error in 2005, when the business centre has no clear macro-economic indicators and signals to develop its activities in the context of the constant adjustment of the business centre's projections. But back to last year, the State budget totalled 105 billion dollars or 99 per cent of the amount approved by law. The main reason for the lack of income is the Special Fund. This is primarily a failure in the work on compensation for savings for citizens. Of the planned amount, only 42 per cent were compensated. In 2005, almost 35 billion more income was generated than in 2004, which is good. But it is estimated that three quarters of the increase, over 28 billion, has been achieved through subjective factors, an increase in the fiscal burden on payers due to the abolition of a number of tax benefits, an increase in the rates of individual payments, the particular accounting of VAT, intercalculation, and an increase in overpaid taxes, these trends continue this year. The main reason for this is the paradoxical situation where the decline in economic performance is achieved by an increase in income from the budget. Unfortunately, there are no positive changes in payment disciplines, and taxpayers' debts to the budget increased by 600 million in 2005. In January of this year, it is estimated that a total of $150 million will be allocated to the United States of America. This is with 1.7 times more debt cancellations in the past year than in 2004. It's about spending. Despite the overexpenditure of the general public budget income fund last year, its expenditure has not been met by nearly 1.2 billion. As in previous years, Minfin and the State have artificially restrained expenditure, so in the fourth quarter it was almost 37 per cent of the annual volume and in December it was more than 16 per cent. As a result, as has been pointed out here, 630 million people were killed. The bracelets have been returned to the budget and have not been used. There is no need to talk about the quality of the budget used in such a storm, and we will talk about this at another meeting. However, from the implementation of the budget, which remains undetected, this is budget lending. Last year, a $1.6 billion loan was presented from the State budget, and only 65 per cent was invested in the budget. This year, this credit was not carried out at all, the main reason is poor work, particularly by Minfina and other ministries, and by the agencies to recover the loans previously issued. This situation has led to a breakdown or incomplete funding of a number of important budget programmes. For example, just over 100 million bracelets have been allocated to form a public food reserve and purchase agricultural forms in 2005. This is only 32 per cent of the budget, although there was money in the budget. In such a situation, the Government needs to examine the current practice in detail, and perhaps at all, it is necessary to give up the limit on lending directly from the budget by handing it over to State banks. During the past year, old budget implementation practices with surpluses have been used in the approved budget deficit. As a result, the balance of the budget as at 1 January 2006 amounted to 14.7 billion grevens, mainly through the sale of Krivorozstal. These funds enabled expenditure to be effected at the end of the year. Oh, my God! and to finance the resulting deficit of 7.9 billion bracelets. But once again, the spending part of the budget is underfunded. Transport policy remains a problem. In 2005, only 91 per cent of planned transport received local budgets and 73 per cent implemented local budget subsidies, in particular only 77 per cent of those covered by the protected articles of the subsidy for the benefit of individual categories of citizens. Subsidies to local population gasification budgets amounted to 124 million or only 30 per cent of the annual plan, total local budgets in 2005 only 94 per cent of the approved local councils. However, the share of local budgets in the consolidated budget decreased by 1.5 per cent, although the budget resolution provided for growth, at the same time the share of transport in local budgets was 43.5 per cent. Although it was nearly 2 times smaller five years ago, it was 23.2 per cent in 2000. This confirms the extreme need for real budgetary resources to be transferred to the field. Events in Alcevska and other cities are tragically reiterating the need for decentralization of budgetary resources; the 2006 freeze should not be repeated. In sum, I would like to point out that we are extremely concerned about the state of the economy, the amount or the system of outstanding issues balanced at the edge of the crisis, which poses a risk to the implementation of the approved budget. I hope that today the condemnation will not become another event, but will bring concrete benefits to the determination of the painful economic development of the State and the implementation of effective public budgetary policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u53	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? The one recorded last shouts louder. Let's take 25 minutes. Please, Basil Nadrag, get ready for Carmazin. I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u54	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, today we are discussing, in my view, the principle of something, if not strategic, in general. The bottom line is this. What is the budget, what is the budget perspective, what is the underlying issue that concerns the country and which has a real impact on the lives of all 47 million of our citizens? So what can be said about the 2005 budget? I will not repeat much of what has happened here, including the last rapporteur. But the point is, I got to the next one. Had it not been for the sale of Krivoroztal, the 2005 budget would have been like a soap bubble and the country would have been a financial bankruptcy. This time. And the second. On 1 January, the Treasury account, which was held by the Cabinet of Ministers, accounted for 14.7 billion United States dollars. Grieve. This raises questions, and if you don't mind, I'll ask them. Question. When the Lithuanian People's Block, the deputies will say that we will not vote in favour of the budget unless you add 500,000 in 2006. for the acquisition of medicines in local budgets. What was the noise and gamma of the Cabinet of Ministers? "will bury" our country. When we insisted that 5 billion. We have to give local budgets for health, education and utilities, again we have heard talks: “Deng no, you want to corrupt the country”. I have a question. The 14.7 billion that were in the accounts on 1 January of this year, to whom, why, and who did not “keep” the money and give it to the country, did not give up the budget or give it to the people, after all. Next moment. We've heard a lot with you about how difficult and difficult housing problems are. And it turns out that out of the 900 million that had to be allocated to local budgets in 2005, two thirds of us were missing. I know it's not the only time they're addressing areas, especially from small towns, from towns. People without gas, why? Where and why they kept 14.7 billion and did not give 600 million to close the topic within the framework of the plan. And the last thing I'd like to say. I didn't dare ask the chairman of the committee. Why we have subsidies and subsidies for the last quarter and December. As a person with experience in local self-government, I answer to give 26, 27 banks shut down, and the money will return to the treasury account, and they will tell again that there was no money, no money, and you misordered it. Therefore, the outcome can be summed up in one way. Regrettably, there is a practice in our country where our distinguished Cabinet of Ministers likes to constantly file claims against the Supreme Council for our alleged reckless actions, and in fact, excuse the rudeness of the word, do what they want. Figures speak for themselves in the end of 2005. The method of conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u55	Please, Vitaly Shibko. Get ready for Michael Nightingale. Microphone from Shibku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u56	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. I'd like to start with a surprise. It was a surprise to see what data had been given to the President when it came to the need to finance the Supreme Council's decision on the budget for children of war. There is a figure that has been set up to impose a veto on this decision, and it has been increased or out of order. And here I am today and Anatoly Ivanovich, and Vladimir Mefodijovich, who reported it there, that's when the question arises. Or is there really an opportunity for us to calculate what is happening in our country’s budget and who should be financed today? And only when we, as they say, gathered together by the Socialist faction and calculated so much money for today's Supreme Council decision on the Budget Act, did we find that the money that was made by the decision correspond to reality and nothing had to be invented there. That's the first one. And the second. Today we've all listened carefully to what was in the report, and from the Ministry of Finance, and what is the profile committee, and we haven't heard, and what is the decentralization trend today? Only Valentin Kostinovich, in general, said this in his speech here, and we thought only today about the categories, and how the central budget is being filled, and how is this being done in the local budget, which today is the concept that we have with this, in fact, to decentralize the budgetary area that we haven't heard today because I was asking Anatolia Ivanovich a question on purpose, to ask if there is an analysis of today's situation, really, an opportunity to decentralize A, are we not ready yet? And here in the decision that is being recommended today, I know that we should, maybe, talk about the Pension Fund, and we should start at the first point where we write that this is what we need to start working on, from the production of the concept of the Budget Code, so that we can lay the foundations for decentralization in order to be ready to move forward, into these forms of funding that we now have around the world. And the last. It's like a request, Adam Ivanovich. We say a lot about Alcevsk today. To date, however, the Ministry of Finance has not fulfilled its obligations to sanatoriums that have adopted children. That is, 30 percent of them were funded, and as far as the funds are concerned, the taxes go in full. And to this day these sanatoriums that have adopted children, they can't make ends meet because there's impotence. But at least take it off, if you finance, these are all taxes if the funding doesn't come to these sanitariums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u57	Mikola Nightshenko. Please get Bronnick ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u58	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, “Litvina People’s Block”. Today, almost the same questions are being answered at all election meetings: “Why do most Ukrainians live outside the poverty line? Why is the work of local communities devalued and unblemished?" Budget work has shown that the existing budget code does not allow the country to develop and, on the contrary, sometimes is a force for destroying it. For four years, all governments have been lagging on the ears of participants in the budget process for the formation of the budget from village to Kiev. Such commitments were made by the governments of Kinah, Yanukovich, Timoshenko. And now Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov also promises us this. Sadly, after gaining authority, all worry about one thing: They try to show the Supreme Council who are in the host state and who suffer from it, of course, the citizens. The triumphant realities of success are not always true, driven by situation. For example, the Ministry of Education, the minister, does not come off the screens, reports that the computerization of schools in rural schools is 100 percent. 98 million are budgeted. It's 78. 20 million used for other purposes. However, society is told that the program is 100 percent done. Similarly, by purchasing school buses for rural schools. Another example is the manipulation of its conditional accomplishments. For example, at the request of the members of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania, we have made it possible to have an additional budget to support the local budgets of 5 billion, and an additional agro-industrial complex of 2 billion. But all of this has been done against the will of the government. Once so, there is another mechanism. A proportional distribution is disregarded by the way the budget is drawn up. And as a result, in 2006, the Ministry of Agriculture Support and 2 billion, 1 billion 200 million peasants will receive 4 quarters, 500 million in December. By the way, despite the President's promises, no amount of peasants have ever received. In summary, I would like to draw attention to all voters in Ukraine. We've had enough radical measures and lies. The state needs people who are set up for a full - time job. They are and are assembled by our leader, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u59	Vladimir Bronnikov, to prepare for the Blackout, we haven't heard or seen in a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u60	Respectable colleagues. Vladimir Bronnikov, 81 constituency, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zaporozhye. Dear colleagues, the propagandists say that the faster the mob believes the harsher the cynical lies. But our people are not mobs. People's deputies aren't crowds. And the worse it gets, the funr it gets, the more they don't believe it. He did not believe Alchevsk, did not believe the dead Clothing, did not believe the dead city of Kirovgrad, did not believe 900 people who had died because the 2005 budget had not been implemented, and money had not been directed to prevent technological catastrophes. And about 2006. If there are mutually exclusive trends in one organism, this is a clinic, colleagues. Thus, if the Acting Minister of the Economy declares that the country's development has turned, stopped and developed a trend towards stagnation, and the Acting Prime Minister generously states that the expected growth of GDP in 2006 is 6 per cent, it is either a gross lie to the elections or government dilation. So either the Government does not own the situation or is painfully populism, that is, the disease of the first Orange Cabinet of Ministers was passed on to today's Government. In any case, it is unlikely that the country will need a government whose ministers are in opposition to the Prime Minister. And there was not a word in the report of the Acting First Deputy Minister of Finance of the respected Anatolia Ivanovich, and the threat that we have in 2006: the gas crisis, the rise in the price of gas for the population, the industry, the expected reduction of income in the money budget, not a word of it. Not to mention that we are losing the entire export industry. Not to mention that the second threat is the expected entry into WTO that is being submitted. Indeed, from its documents issued by the Government, coal industry stagnation, telecommunications stagnation, transport stagnation, steel stagnation, and colour metallurgy are expected. These are all from the document, the decrees on the preparation of the Government for WTO accession. Therefore, gentlemen of the Government, let us speak honestly to the people. Either let's leave with 20,000 sons-in-laws and give up that power, or let's be honest that we haven't handled that power and we haven't done it in 2005 before the expected year 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u61	Vladimir Cherniak. Please, Shuma is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u62	Dear National Deputies! In my opinion, we have reason to conclude. That the main drawback of last year's budget and already early this year is the low level of efficiency of the organisation of work in the use of budgetary resources. Not only is it not so much, perhaps after filling, but it is also used In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the essential situation: investment development is crucial now. I often hear the words “stabilisation”, “development”. It's the main task of the budget to ensure development, investment development. The main link of economic policy is the creation of a favourable investment climate. So if you take last year: about a billion dollars, 550 million dollars, has been allocated for development. on the residential area, 420 on gasification, and these costs were not used properly, to the extent necessary. In order to upgrade the machine, it is extremely important that the equipment is physically out of date, that the costs were not even the ones that were available. Some funds were allocated on December 24. That's what the MPs talked about today. That's what impresses me more than anything. Usually they say there's no budget. If there are even budget funds, they are not used or used primarily for development. And it's causing serious anxiety. Take the beginning of this year. Two billion dollars has been allocated for development. No bracelets are used. We've got March-Month already. Why are the developmental costs not used? That's the first question. And the second is about ensuring the balance of government and local budgets. I want to admit I'm a federalist. A federalist, but not in the sense that he was talking about. I'm a budget fed! I'm convinced that the only way to solve the issue of government and local budget balance is through fiscal federalism, when the budget is formed from the bottom up rather than from the top. The budget should not work like a pump that disburses the funds up, and then the official distributes the funds. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u63	Thank you. Come more often, Vladimir Kirilovich, because we've already missed you. Please, Shurma, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u64	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, “The Opposition Block NOT YES!” [[united]] First of all, it is necessary to talk about the wrongness of budgetary information, and it is important to talk about the wrongness if not the crime of fiscal policy imposed on Ukraine by the new authority. All of the so-called successes in the budget were achieved by a largely 4 factors. First, an unprecedented increase in fiscal burden on the economy, which initially caused a multiple decline in economic growth, an investment crisis, a 10-fold reduction in capital deposits. And now it's going down. During the first two months, industrial production declined in relation to January-February last year, money was coming out of the real economy, all the stories about childhood -- it's a bluff. Some of the shades after essentially administrative pressure at the beginning of 2005 are now 2 1/2 years old, as the Ministry of Economics has stated, and have gone into a sharp increase in Tinnitus. Secondly, a colossal centralization of financial resources was made in the State Budget. If the proportion of local budgets in consolidated 2004 was nearly 50 percent, it fell to 40 percent in 2005, a 20 percent reduction. Local budgets have continued to be robbed in the run of budgets. By the way, this is evidence of authoritarianism and the deep anti-democracy of the current regime. Thirdly, inflation was much higher than officially declared and higher than in 2004. It amounted to 13.5 percent versus 9. This is exactly what international financial organizations and leading Ukrainian experts recognize, not those who suggest falsified figures to the President in the reports. Budget revenues are largely available. Inflationary nature. Fourthly, the colossal budget holes were partially closed by the reselling of the “Cruvoristals” to a foreign company with a questionable reputation. Ukraine’s possible significant economic and social losses will become even more evident. Taking all of this into account, the “NOT YES” Opposition Block will stand for not just a budget-2006 review, but a fundamental change in budgetary policy, a change in state spending, and the introduction of fiscal federalism. At least 60 percent of the funds should remain in the regions. A radical reduction in tax pressure, a full public awareness of the implementation of central and local budgets. As for this year's situation. Mr. Kyreyev is here. In Lviv today, Lviv gas is sold for 720 bracelets. Where there's 95, the price of Naftogazu, figure out the profit, and you'll know who has how much to pay taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u65	Shufrich Nestor, please. Prepare Prowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u66	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished colleagues, national MPs! You know, today I want to cry, I want to cry. Today, I recommend that those in Maidan weep in orange tears for the results of the 2005 budget. Let's literally do a few numbers. They had already forgotten the 2005 budget: to close the 2005 hole, they had to sell the Krivorozstal and all the money from Krivorozstali had to be sent to pay off their debts. I want to say again that bankruptcy is the only way to do it! If you've failed, sell yours. There's nothing to sell. Today, I wish to recall the results of the funding in January-February 2005. Two per cent reduction in budget income and a special implementation plan for the January month budget were cut. The same is true in February. As a result, today, compared to 2005 and 2006, in 2006 there are almost three billion bracelets, more or less, with the 13 billion deficit planned for 2006! We are now surprised to see why last year we experienced a fivefold decline in the growth rate of domestic gross product and, for the first time since 1997, we have observed a decline in production by almost three per cent in January. So what is it? What did the Ukrainian people deserve for Ukraine to be abandoned in its development seven years ago?Oh, my God! And look at the innovations that we've been making since April 1st. Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian society should know that, from 1 April 2006, gas prices are raised to 277 bracelets and from 1 September to 393 bracelets for the population. These are the consequences of such a successful gas agreement. We already have a feeling of how much we've become richer. You know, I remember Yushchenko driving the presidential election to the bazaars and eating a bed of medicine and salsa and saying he was happy that it was all growing in Ukraine. You know, Victor Andreevich, it won't be all that soon. And honey bees will only be left on your personal streets, because I am absolutely sure that soon in Ukraine and bees will die as they die today from the bird flu of chicken. Today, when you say that Ukrainians are getting richer, you make fun of them, or you make fun of yourself, a person who just doesn't know what country he lives in. Today, prices are killing us with you, we will not let Ukraine die, we will review both budget policies and we will drive bankrupt people out of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u67	Nestor Ivanovich, don't be afraid of society. Bee's flu isn't there yet. Please, Mikola Porowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u68	Mikola Porovski, faction of the Rebirth Party. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move from the hysterics to the analysis of the situation to what is wrong with the budget system, so that we can answer the other part of the question that we are discussing: the impact of the current economic situation on the implementation of the budget in 2006. To my deep conviction, from the experience of four years of work in the central body, the central executive power is a major budget failure, including in 2005 is an existing practice to allocate 30-35% of budget assignments in the last quarter of the year, or in December at all. At the same time, to stop the 25th, 26th December movement, knowing this and the same Ministry of Finance knows well that in existing practice., under existing budgetary standards, when it takes 45 days from the publication in the Gazette of State Procurement to the implementation of budgetary assignments, it is virtually impossible to absorb these funds. So this existing practice has put at risk, first of all, the implementation of the budget allocations of 1 billion 400 million for grants and state support to agriculture. And now, I'm pointing out to you that in the spring, when one spring day feeds for a year, we have to get there and make sure that 1 billion 400 million dollars are paid to agricultural producers in March, April and not later. Because otherwise these budget assignments become fiction again. Similarly, the money allocated to the state’s most current and most important theme is energy conservation. From 600 million they have decreased to 460 million budget assignments. And that's a topic. The only way to see it is to do it, in the example of “The Crossroads”. A state-owned enterprise needs to allocate 30 million dollars to energy conservation in 2006. And the economy is clear. Allocation of 30 million dollars will give the economy 1 billion 800 million dollars. But there are no such funds for today. No bracelets have been allocated from the energy savings budget. With each year, it's also increasing by this "district" that gives, I repeat, six billion revenue to the budget. On the other hand, we're taking all the profits, and we're exploiting railways, transportation, full-time tracks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I don't know how you do it, but I do, when we listen to similar questions about the report, information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the budget execution, reports are always argued by our Court of Auditors, specifically the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine, which, on behalf of the Supreme Council, is in charge of budgetary control. We always drop a sea of charges against violators of the basic economic law. This has been going on for decades. I don't remember. Maybe one of you will help me remember the results. Not at all. No other official who violates Ukraine’s State budget not only bore criminal responsibility for the violation, even though it is provided for by law, but not even disciplined for the fact that it is managed by billions of states as it pleases. You were absolutely right, because you're roasted because the passersby don't give you gas. You're promised that the debt for 2005 will be repaid in 2006, 2006 and will return the fifth, but you won't get anything in the sixth. The answer, why, is no money. But the answer isn't in the money, I'll explain. It's expensive. The answer was that our government, even in one correct prediction, knew that the gas was increasing and that it would not be, so all the truths and lies he was holding back gasification because he knew there would be no gas. And when it comes to the fact that there were no funds, yes, these are the Special Fund's funds, but over 11 billion in the General Fund are left with funds? What, it was hard to get rid of these funds? Was it difficult to make a decision with the Supreme Council to use these funds? No, it's not. What they left behind, I won't go into politics, we're all perfectly clear. The forecast was more than 8..2% of GDP last year. How much did you increase? At 2.6. At 2.4 first, and then the government reported as a huge achievement to the President: “Our dear President, the state statistics have clarified the score and not 2.4, but 2.6%.” This was the highest achievement of the government he reported on, reporting on the results. And the results are weary. I'll give you the numbers, let the people hear it. Last year, our 47 million citizens industry produced as many as 51 million pairs of socks and stockings. So one pair of socks and stockings per year for one person. In 2005, our industry produced 18.9 million pairs of shoes for 47 million people. One pair of shoes, if I may say so, on two and a half people. In 2005, our industry produced less than 4 million top clothes -- one in ten people. That doesn't mean we're bosses and we're undressed, which means we're financing a foreign economy that we're making money to those countries that we're taking all this stuff away from. What, does it take a lot of brains to make stockings or shoes? No, it's not. It's just not convenient for those who manage the state budget as their own. We're gonna have to make a decision, probably no benefit, no harm in making a decision that the committee has prepared, because there's nothing to talk about. There the committee told, the figures called and recommended the government to work better. There's always a budget committee that seems to attack the government, but when you read their papers, your hand, I'm sorry, it washes. They work in such a way that they do not offend one another. But since there's a draft decree, I'm putting it to a vote. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of the review of the state of implementation of the State and local budgets for 2005 and the impact of the current economic situation on the implementation of the budget in 2006. Registration number 9224. [[17:44:26]] For-65 Please, Noshchenko will now urge you to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u70	160 constituency, Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich. Adam Ivanovich, please note the name of the decree that does not match the name of the question that we have discussed today. Let's put in, let's call it the "implementation status" ruling, not the "recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers". And let's take it as a basis that we can work on this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u71	What's not to be called, but it's clear that 65 means nothing. I'm asking the committee to do the same, even though you work all the time, you say, take the paperwork more seriously. And look at what the agenda sounds like, the question that we're looking at. Please prepare a new draft decision on the issue that we have heard from the report. Let us go to the consideration, to the order of the day, and to the decision - making process. Dear colleagues, those of you on the Conciliation Council know this situation, the situation is that there is somewhere in the Supreme Court today, if I'm not mistaken, about 60,000 cassation cases that they can't handle and can't handle. So there's a whole series of approaches proposed, and we've come back more than once to have the opportunity to refer these complaints to the Courts of Appeal in order to actually consider them and to dismantle the Supreme Court, which is physically unable to deal with these issues. So here's a series of laws, I've explained the situation, and you're determined. There is a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. Registration number 9174. [[17:46:56]] For 236 Thank you. It's on. Yes, please, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich. You won't? Then, please, take it easy. Let's do it in a nutshell. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u72	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! I thank you all for supporting the inclusion of these bills in the agenda. Because, in fact, it's not as many laws for the court as it is for the citizens of Ukraine who, unfortunately, in view of what we've done with a little accumulation of complaints, are looking forward to hearing their cases before the courts of the court of appeal -- both the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court, the Civil Chamber and other judicial institutions. Bill No. 9174 specifically refers to the introduction of appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code and aims to expedite the examination of case complaints before the court of the cassation institution. It's the main lecture of all the bills that we're going to be looking at today on the right hand side. Introduce procedural mechanisms that will speed up the case before the court of the cassation facility. Adam Ivanovich has just argued that the number of cases pending before the court of a court of cassation exceeds 45 thousand and 15,000 have already been brought before the Supreme Administrative Court. And it's the draft law number and 9174, and the 9180 and 8497, standing next to it, that provides for the introduction of certain procedural mechanisms. What's the point? First. The point is that the court of the cassation institute will have a preliminary case. In order for the cassation complaint that came to the court not to listen to the entire Chamber to determine whether there are grounds for a decision to be overturned or to remain in force and to allow the court to have a preliminary court hearing in the case of three persons to determine whether there are grounds for a violation of the cassation or not? And this will thus allow a large portion of the cases that are brought before the court of cassation, if there is no reason to examine them, not to draw what is called, for consideration by the entire chamber, to take up the time of the court and, accordingly, the greater number of the court, or more, the number of judges. [[five, seven]] We will increase the responsibility of the Judge of the Court of Cassation, in particular the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, to take a decision on the case. We allow citizens to have more access to the cases that are being dealt with in these courts, including with the possibility of getting acquainted with the case. The bill provides an opportunity, including an obligation for citizens to submit a complaint, not only to file a complaint itself, but also to add a copy of the contested decisions to enable the court handling the appeal to take the appropriate decision based on these documents. I ask you to support this bill, at least by voting on it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Vote. Then I vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. Registration No. 9164. Please vote. [[17:50:57]] For the 220. According to factions: “Regions” – 28, Communists – 55, Block Timoshenko – 16, People's Party – 17, Our Ukraine – 16, Socialists – 26, People's Block Lithuania – 21, Social Democrats – 4, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Movement – 8, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 7, Rebirth – 13, Reforms and Orders – 3, non-fractional – 6. [[United]] I see that there is potential. Who's in charge of coming back? [[17:51:44]] For 255 We're back. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice. Registration No. 9174. Please vote. [[17:52:10]] For 254 First of all, there's a denial, and second of all, the committee's only asking for a basis. Yes, who is in favour of including and reviewing the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on the procedure for dealing with complaints in administrative disputes]] Registration number 9180. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[17:52:54]] For 175 Let's see the factions. Now, now. “Regions” – 29, Communists – 55, Timoshenko – 17, People's Party – 2, “Our Ukraine” – 15, Socialists – 27, People's Block of Lithuania, Social Democrats have not arrived. Yes. The Ukrainian People's Party, the People's Movement – 10, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 4, Rebirth – 10, Reforms and Order – 4, non-fractional – 2. Yeah, one minute, and we'll think that's a report if we include it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know we have two trials, one civilian, the other administrative. We've just voted with you to put in place a proper procedure for expediting the cassation in civil courts. Now the same, since two different processes, the committee proposes to make the process administrative. So essentially, it's the same institutions, and it didn't really understand the position of why we're backing up in one case and not in the other. The committee asks that this is a purely professional procedural law, where there is no policy. A request for support. What is more, we have expressed our will in a similar situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u75	Mom asks, Dad asks and the committee asks, and I ask, let's put into order the daily draft of the Law amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, Registration No. 9180. Please vote. [[17:54:41]] For 201 Oh, yeah. Work, work. Overruled. Not included in the agenda, sorry. We need to put it in order of day and consider the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, registration number 9183. [[on the violation of a criminal case against a judge]] I'd like to make up my mind. About getting into the daytime. [[17:55:25]] For 171 Explain, please, Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u76	Dear colleagues! You remember that on the following sessional week, you and I considered this bill, referring to the establishment of a criminal case against a judge. In particular, the bill stipulates that a criminal case against a judge of the Constitutional Court in connection with his judicial activity, stressing that, and the Supreme Court was violated by the Attorney General or his deputy. For judges of all other levels, according to the district attorneys or their counterparts. The problem is that today a criminal case against a judge may be violated by an investigative district department of internal affairs. Imagine a criminal case being brought against the judges of the Constitutional Court, the head of the U.S.A., more loyally investigating the district department of internal affairs in connection with his judicial activity, I stress. So it was just suggested that we differentiate this order, in terms of knowing that a criminal case, for example, against a lawyer as a trial participant, could be violated today only by the district attorney. The judge of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, on the other hand, is charged with a criminal case by the district’s investigator. It seems to me that this is the injustice that needs to be removed. And that's what the bill is about. So I ask Adam Ivanovich, if there is the will of the hall, to put the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u77	Now, Mikola Vasilovich, let's check it out. I ask you to make up your mind by including in the order of order a bill amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges on the Involvement of Responsibility, 9183. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:57:44]] For-189 Not turned on. Yes, Your Honor, we need to consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 8497. [[on the provision of a cassational charge against the court]] Please, Mikolo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, this is just a bill, one minute, please, listen, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, this is exactly the bill that Adam Ivanovich had just addressed to justify the need for approval. The point is that one of the procedural mechanisms that will allow the hearing of the Supreme Court to be decided is that it is temporary, temporary, a year before the Supreme Court to refer the cases that have been accumulated today to the appeals courts that would serve as the court of appeal. It's no harm, because the Supreme Court remains a court of cassation and continues to accept complaints of cassation and examines them. It's consistent with the procedural order that we adopted today as a basis. And those cases that are accumulated at the same time are referred to the district courts, appeals courts, which are fully composed of their chambers as a cassation facility. Having completed their consideration of these accumulated cases, they lose this function. Believe me, it's a smart, only decision that the committee has offered to consider the problem that has accumulated. And we really wanted the people's deputies to be supported here by both the committee and the judicial system, namely, the main citizens of Ukraine, who are suffering from two or three years' cassation complaints not being reviewed. Once again, these are not laws for judges. These are laws for citizens, because they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u79	Thank you. I'll continue for 15 minutes. It is up to the vote for adoption in the first reading on the basis of amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8497]] Please vote. [[18:00:10]] For-170. Carmazin, we're about to be summoned. There's no wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I, Yuri Carmazin will not urge you to vote in favour of this law for one simple reason. I would like you and I to understand now that in 2002 there was a fatal error in adopting the Sudokustry Act and then the Kuchma Ivy accepted, pushed it, under the pressure of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Today, the constitutional rights of citizens are widely violated. Massively, I would like to emphasize. And we can't understand that not all of the House has to look at it, but we have to look at it in threes, and everything would be fine. Now, do you now propose to send in the area and those who are being complained about by these people, and people will thank you for that? I realize that once it might suck this clot, but it's still not a solution, because it's a violation of article 22 of the Constitution. It's a reduction in the amount of constitutional rights of citizens, they have the right to be examined by the Supreme Court, they believe in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u81	Who's to go back to voting on this law, I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[18:01:50]] For a hundred and Well, we've already considered three times, if not more in this session this law, so it is. Overruled. Dear colleagues! We need to make decisions on the issues under discussion. Draft Ordinance on Compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, registration number 8656-D. [[on the acquisition of quality education in rural areas]] Vote. [[18:02:35]] For-119 Rodion's, please, microphone. Rodionov's microphone, from the committee, please. You're sitting in your seat, everything's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u82	Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear National Deputies! This bill, which is now being passed, is being passed without an evaluation of the activity. At my own time, when I was speaking, I suggested that I make an assessment “unsatisfactory”. It is also clear that this assessment is given to the Ministry. I want to remind you that this assessment is being made to meet the requirements of the Constitution regarding the quality of rural education. This applies to all previous governments. And she was voted. If it is now unrated, it means that all previous governments, including President Kuchmov, have worked satisfactorily to uphold the Constitution in terms of the quality of rural education. We can't do that because today we appreciate, not the Ministry's work, but the government's work with respect to the Constitution. So the proposal is still to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, there are two proposals for assessing the government's work, and the rest of the comments will not be made. So I'm going to put them to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've voted with you to make an unsatisfying assessment. Now the draft decree says, "Get to know." Then I suggest you wait, please don't spread your hands, I suggest the committee and the secretariat find out what we have to vote on. If the rating has already been voted “unsatisfactory”, why now do the documents with the rating “take to the known”? Please, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, microphone. Yes, please explain the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! At the direction of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Science and Education developed a draft decree on schools in rural areas. We have taken all the remarks made by Minister Nikolaynek, and these are in paragraphs 3.15, 5.4.5 and 8. 3 6 3 5 3.16. We've taken note of the MP's comments and they're in 3.1, 3.3, 5.7. Deputy Kozlovski, they are in paragraph 3.3.38, 3.12; Saddome Mikola Ilić, paragraph 3.16; Carmazina, paragraph 3.15. We've taken the MPs' notes into account. We do. One minute. We have made an unusually meaningful decision by the Supreme Council regarding the improvement of education in rural areas. Honestly, I'm telling you. I have no interest in this government or the government that will be. I am interested in education in rural areas. And the Supreme Council is responsible for this education. We made a decree of the Supreme Council, which honors the Supreme Council. And I'm asking you very much, I'm asking you to vote in favour of this decision, because it's a determination that makes rural education develop. If you want to do as you say, screams are all, well, for God's sake. But let us take the decision that is needed for education. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u85	Igor Raphaelovich! [[Don't make any noise, please!]] Please tell me why the "unsatisfactory" rating was voted, why did the decision come up with another score, who the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u86	Adam Ivanovich, in general, I must be blamed as the acting head of the committee. I thought it was important to make a decision. It was then not accepted, and it will now not be accepted if there are such extreme evaluations. This extreme assessment of this decision doesn't give anything because the trouble with rural school was original, it's still going on even since the '70s, when a huge number of rural schools were closed. And it goes on and on and on. And that's why rural education is, well, I'm asking you, dear friends6, either we're helping out in rural education or we're not doing agitation. [[One minute, I don't want to offend anyone, wait! I don't want to hurt anyone! Oh, don't make yourself a great Communist, greater than I am, for God's sake, I beg you!]] And that's why I'm blaming myself. Indeed, I had the courage to release this paragraph that makes this
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u87	Thank you, thank you. Don't scream, please. As former First Secretary of the Lviv City Party, I confirm that Igor Rafailovich was a fairly disciplined and active member of the CPRS. Yes, Your Honor, I'm putting to the vote a verdict with an evaluation that we've already voted on and that no one without a decision of the Supreme Council has had the right to change except the Supreme Council, with an assessment that is voted on as a whole. What's the order? Rules on what? What words? I repeat, I repeat to those who are very active in counterfeiting: the Supreme Council has already voted on the evaluation. The committee took the liberty of replacing the Supreme Council. What's wrong? I put it to a vote with a vote that's voted: to take the decision as a whole. Please vote. And for counterfeiting, we're going to figure out who did it and why it's a fake. [[18:10:04]] For-154 by factions Ukraine's 24 regions, communists 52, Block Timoshenko 23, People's Party 6, Our Ukraine 7, Socialists 0, People's Block 22, Social Democrats 7, Ukrainian People's Party 1, National Movement of Ukraine 4, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs 0, Rebirth 6, Reforms and Orders 0, non-fractional 2. Dear colleagues, the motives have come to an end. I support the words of Igor Rafailovich, who says that, in fact, this decree sets out everything so that we can improve education in rural areas. There's no politics. But there is a policy for those who protect all governments together in all their years of independence. Because when we gave them an unsatisfying assessment, you, most of you, don't want to go along with it. He doesn't want to. The ruling isn't adopted. That's it, we're done. Draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers on the status and prospects of protecting the cultural heritage of Ukraine, registration number 8671. Decision-making on the outcome of the hearings on December 13, 2005. Les Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u88	I have an offer to move on to tomorrow, because we won't accept it today. Well, unfortunately, this decision is very important to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-14-m1.u89	I'm voting on the decision. Please vote. We vote in favour. [[6:11:53]] For-81 Not accepted. Dear colleagues, we'll move, we'll vote tomorrow, but tomorrow will be the same result. We'll come back tomorrow at your request. Yes, at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
