ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u1	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:32:43.]] We've registered 405 national deputies. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! We continue our consideration of Tuesday’s scheduled issues. We need to put it in the agenda and consider and make decisions on a number of drafts. So that we can get into the agenda, I'm asking the deputies to come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u2	What, what? And we've already made our decision, we've made our decision today. Dear colleagues! I would now like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property, registration number 8357. [[on accounts purchased by buyers in Ukraine]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Here comes the vote, your honors. about the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:34:05]] For 132 Let's think about it this way. We have some questions here that don't need to be included in the agenda. In summary, we will consider a few questions, and then we will return to these questions. No warning? Then let's do it this way. Let us now consider the draft Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law “On National Compulsory Pension Insurance, ” registration number 8043. Yes, is there anyone from the government? From the committee? For free, Vasil Ivanovich, who will report from the committee? This is the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. Let's put the question on hold. Yes, I now announce a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. [[on Juvenile Prisoners]] Kirilo Polishchuk is the author of the draft decision. Is it? None. From the Committee of Aloshin Valeriy Borisovich. Is there an Aloshin Valery Borisovich? Yeah, there's something we haven't all got here. Yes, now, dear colleagues, the draft Law approving the National Civil Programme for the Development of National Adoption of Children in Ukraine "Every Child - Own Family" for 2006-2016. Is there a game of Rest? Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich from the committee, please. This is Bill 7199.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u3	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Your opinion is proposed for a national adoption programme for 2006-2010, entitled “Every Child-Family”. It is no secret that, over the past decade, we have been in Ukraine, and Ukrainian society has witnessed a severe disgraceful phenomenon when not only biological but, above all, social orphanages have become a major source of national disaster. And in view of the fact that children who are homeless, or children who have biological parents, have strayed, are left alone with this problem. It seemed that, as in the past, 15 - 20 years we lived in a land where there were no disabled people, so it seemed that the authorities did not notice these children. And I am extremely happy that Ukrainian President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko at one of the first meetings called this phenomenon incompatible with the moral situation in the country in general and morally of every citizen. And that's exactly what's driving us to do the program that you're thinking of today. The Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood considered this program carefully at its meeting. And no doubt we are ready to call on Parliament to support it. Ironically, there are many countries in the world with a lower standard of living, with a higher standard of living, but let's say in the same countries in Central Asia, where the function of a family where the status of a family is better developed, there are no children like them on the streets, they are taken by their closest relatives. We have something in Ukraine that neither father nor mother carry out those duties, do society, family, and rely on the state. That is why a number of family preferences are offered to adopt children. And all of this together, in fact, contributes to our national adoption, because you and I are on the verge of such a strange situation where, on the one hand, we have negative demographics, and on the other hand, we have children on the streets that no one adopts. That is why I would like to support this bill. And, dear friends, today you and I are working together on the first day of the parliamentary-presidential republic. It's very good that we wanted to put a number of issues in the agenda, but it's very bad that today we haven't put the day's issue of resigning the government into order, and it's very bad that today this anti-national, anti-government, anti-presidential parliamentary majority has sent a government that has adopted a budget that has not allowed an energy crisis to retire.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, the report has been completed by the committee. On this occasion, the presentations were recorded: Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, will you be speaking? Yeah. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u5	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainian people, we are now practically, in an empty hall, the government is gone. The Supreme Council with the blocs that stand in essentially anti - state positions also celebrates the victory. Over what? Is it common sense? Well, to think about it, today, we can't form a government, there's no one to shape, read the Constitution, there's no majority to choose. Well, without the government, perhaps it would be better for the interim to be the government, so the honourable must say clearly that 250 deputies took responsibility today, on the day of President Yashchenka’s visit to Kazakhstan, to put it on his back and say clearly: “Everything, you have no one to rely on in the country. You come to another country with another government.” The President's coming back today and he'll get it on the phone. You have made him a great pleasure. With regard to this law, I would like to say that I would like to thank the authors of this law on the approval of the national targeted programme for the development of the national adoption of children in Ukraine, every child of his own family, for the years 2006-2016. And these are the national deputies of Ostrash, Matthew and Bauer. These people are in different factions, but they're still united. They were united in their concern for the future of the Ukrainian people. And this program is designed to provide adequate legal and socio-economic conditions for the development of national adoption, to improve the conditions for the maintenance of children who are left without the care of their children and parents. The main tasks are to encourage adoption, improve national legislation, provide social protection and support for foster families, adoptive children, and raise them properly. Are there any observations? The observations are only one. What you need to anticipate is normal funding. But I think that at the time of the planned programme, we will be able, Ukraine as a state, to ensure the normal functioning, the financing of this draft law. One. And the second. I feel that the law’s position on composition, responsibilities, and funding of the Board of Trustees should be fully reviewed. There is a need to separate and define the authority of the executive branch, especially in view of the reform of local self - government that will take place now. I am in favour of the adoption of this law in the first reading and in principle it can also be adopted in general because of funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u6	Yuri Solomatin, please. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. We're looking at a very different question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u7	Dear Head, dear colleagues. It should not be said that every child who is temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment is entitled to protection and special assistance from the State. First of all, by creating the right conditions and possibilities for adoption. By ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, our State recognized the importance and necessity of the adoption of orphans and children deprived of parental care, its priority with regard to other forms of child rearing. The world's co-operation has recognized and identified in international legal acts the advantage of the development of national adoption as the most appropriate for the child's higher interests. The programme proposed to the people's deputies in the Igor Ostrash bill should result in an increase in the number of national adoptions in Ukraine. This increase should take place on account of the substantial reduction in the number of orphans who are being raised in children's institutions. It is known that in 2002 23,800 children were needed in Ukraine. Of these, only 7 thousand 972 children were taken into institutions, and 6 thousand 925 children were adopted. There was a practice of braking national adoption as a result of an increase in international adoption, which could only be viewed as a covert fact, especially in 2002, 2,000,300 children were adopted in Ukrainian families and a thousand, seven hundred were given to foreign families. The proposed bill aims to create the right legal, coordination, economic conditions necessary for the development of children in Ukraine, for which it is proposed to use such means as the promotion of adoption, the provision of information to the population on the order of adoption, the study of problems in this area, the improvement of legislation, and the formation of effective State structures that will effectively deal with adoption. So the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will support this bill, vote for it to be accepted as a basis, even taking into account the fact that the author of the Igor Ostas bill was guided by international legal instruments, such as those of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, where the issue was resolved at a more civilized level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u8	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Igor Ostrash, please, the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u9	Thank you. Igor Ostrash, faction of the “Reforms and Orders” party. Dear friends, our bill is also presented by MPs besides me by Matvienkov and Bauer, is really very important to our state and it has a very ambitious purpose, to transform Ukraine from a donor country, that is, a country that gives its children abroad. Ukraine, which will really care for children of orphans and will really be able to have every child of orphans in Ukraine with their own Ukrainian family. Mr. Shevchuk was just speaking here, he was reporting in 2002, and I'd like to go back to 2004, and I'd like to say that in 2004, about 98,000 children needed parental care and care. Of them, there were about 25,000 children in children’s boarding schools and 3,550 children adopted. Despite the work being done through the media to promote national adoption, the number of Ukrainian citizens who want to adopt a child does not increase with each year, but is declining. Thus, in 2002, 2,043 children were adopted by Ukrainian citizens. In 2004, only 1462. Family education is preferred as care, and there is the practice of rearing children in foster homes, foster families, as an alternative form of child support, and in residential institutions. Since such forms of parenting are promoted by the State to a greater extent than adoption, adoption is the best form of the child and gives him more rights and guarantees. I would also like to point out that Ukrainian citizens are trying to bring their children into good health because they are unable to provide adequate treatment and rehabilitation for children with serious medical problems because of their material condition. One more thing is very important. The legislation practically provides for the preservation of pension benefits after the loss of a foster care provider to parents who have died or died. However, of the total number of children in the listed category, only a small percentage of children whose parents died or died, and most children, I stress, are children of social orphans in living parents. Among children who today can adopt children from families who have a health disability, a physical and a linguistic retardation, such children need a special approach to rehabilitation, education, and recovery. So, dear colleagues, I would like to stress in particular that for us national adoption should be a real priority, and now it is up to you and me to really support national adoption and stimulate it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u10	Yes, thank you. Igor Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Since the review of draft Law 7199 has been completed. The proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law on the approval of the National and Civil Programme for the Development of National Adoption of Children in Ukraine "Every Child - Own Family" for 2006-2016 is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[16:50:20]] For 308. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please note that we need to include in the agenda the Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property. [[on accounts purchased by buyers in Ukraine]] Registration number 8357. Vote please, Your Honor. [[16:50:58]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Bank of Ukraine, with respect to the Supreme Council, let's include and consider the issue, then let's define. Who wants to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of bill 8357? Vote please, Your Honor. [[16:51:32]] For 276 Questions are included in the agenda. On to his consideration, we invite the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Stemma Vladimir Semenović. Prepare yourself from the Committee of Philip Philipovich Budzigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u11	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, on behalf of the National Bank, the community and the banking community, I would like to congratulate you on your Christmas celebrations and wish you health and inspired work in your difficult work. Secondly, I would like to say that the Day of Assembly is not far away, nor is the assembly of Ukraine. Well, that's the first day of bankers in this century. You know the number of bankers is 8, 6 plus 2 is 8. So this year, thanks for your attention and starting. Basically, it's a question. Honourable National MPs, active legislation stipulates that, like all other types of payments in Ukraine, national currency should be made. This is also happening under the Privatization Act. But time is changing, and our businesses now have the right to also keep their acquisitions in foreign currency. That's the first thing. Privatization is also sometimes done with foreign investors, and this is sometimes caused by the need to keep accounts in foreign currency. That's why our experience with Chrystal has shown that there are cases where they can't make money to the market, because they couldn't just lower the rates there, which is why we're going to suffer both our budget revenues and the incomes of businesses. In addition, a decision has been made to align the situation of our domestic potential investors with foreign investors and, by the way, it has been held in 2001, in 2002, in the fourth and fifth years, you made a decision to change the Privatization Act every time such questions were raised. Therefore, it was decided to supplement the Privatisation Act to allow both foreign and our investors to make calculations in foreign currency in agreement with the National Bank. Why do you agree with the National Bank? Because according to the current legislation, only the National Bank can allow exclusion to be made in the territory of Ukraine. So if, for example, such a question might arise, in such cases we would have to give permission to the State Property Fund so that it could receive funds in a foreign currency. It also gives you the possibility, you know, that the budget has the necessary payments that they have to make abroad in foreign currency, so there's a difference when they have to buy the currency, and always the buyers, you know, carry as much as one and a half percent of the extra expenses. So in some cases, this is going to be, to some extent, savings for the budget. In this regard, as we came out again of this experience of the “Criminals”, the President made additions to this law and was entrusted to you to bring these to your knowledge. The cost, the cost of any additional budget in this regard, does not mean anything, but merely regulates and speeds up calculations and economics. Thank you for your attention and please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Semenovich. Let's ask now.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u13	I apologize that it was agreed with the Ministry of Finance, with the State Property Fund, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the support received.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u14	Thank you. Now the position of the committee, please, which one? Philip Philipovich? One minute, there's a question. Please sign up for the question for three minutes. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u15	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Semenovich, I would like to make a personal determination during the vote, to understand the logic of the President you are speaking, to introduce this bill, taking into account some categorical reluctance of the National Bank of Ukraine to engage in the real sector of the economy. Please tell me, after that review, the bracelet that happened that caused enormous damage to the real economy, how do you allow the cost of privatization objects in a freely converted currency not only to foreign investors, you don't have a legal license there, but to domestic enterprises, is it calculated? How will such a permit affect the exchange rate of the bracelet and the stability of the national currency? Have such calculations been made? Who made them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u16	Estimates were made. This was a particularly vivid example of “Criminal. ” If we, for example, ours, those investors, you know, domestic investors were involved in this, too, if we made them, for example, advance payments were made first, made in the national currency, and they had some in the national currency, and some in the foreign currency, they would sell the currency, they would get the money. And we did. And so it turns out they didn't win the competition. Now they have to go back, they need it, and they needed it. Now they have to make the advance they made. They buy, they lose one and a half percent. Technical, mechanical, well, the law is so presupposed that we should put it into the Pension Fund. So this is the first one, one of the first ones, is to equalize the terms of these, equalize the terms. And you rightly said that when such a mass of big money, 100 million, 200 million, that's what they're going to do, they can disorganize the market and unwarrantedly fortify it. That's why it's against that. Now it's the National Bank. There could be different currencies. Euro, for example. And we don't need her. We can say stop, it could be foreign currency, but in dollars or, for example, vice versa." So from the structural position of our currency fund, gold reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u17	Yuri Carmazin, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u18	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Head, you know I respect you, but I don't understand the plans for the donation of Ukraine. I don't know when we're going to end up with the question that we haven't had a free convertible before. We've been dreaming about this for a long time. And you said it didn't take much to do it. Why don't we? And I'll tell you more. Well, let's lose one and a half percent in exchange. Why should we care? People are making serious investments. Are we, today, defending their interests, serving them? I don't understand our position here, I just don't understand. Please tell me how this will relate to article 3 of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the system of monetary regulation, where the only means of payment in Ukraine is the currency of Ukraine. It's not currency reverses, it's currency bracelets. How will this relate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u19	Thank you. This is exactly the question of what was asked by Deputy Suhi. You know what I mean. is an investor-specific businessman, a particular economy, and for nothing, which is, for example, what I'm saying. The only advance that he's making and he's losing that 3 percent, as you say there-there, is already going to be talking to the community about the damage he's caused. And this is a particular economy that works for people. There's value creation, there's pay, there's counting into the Pension Fund, and so on and so forth. That's what these questions are. And that's just to avoid disorganizing the market, and in order to strengthen the national currency, that's exactly what it's done for, if we go like this, let's say, big amounts to eliminate it, they go into the economy and give a positive. It's about dollarization. I want to tell you that the previous summary we're going to give you an expanded report on monetary policy last year and we're going to show you how the attitude has been to the economy sector in particular and so on. I want to tell you what last year is, though. But we've seen a significant increase in the gold reserves that we need, including in connection with the issue that you've been looking at before lunch, and it's a critical import. We have to have a currency to do that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u20	Vladimir Semenovich, thank you. Time's up. Philip Philipovich Budzigan of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u21	Dear National Deputies! Budhagan, a faction of Communists. On October 29, 2005, the President of Ukraine, pursuant to article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property and asked him to consider it as urgent, without delay. The purpose of the project is, as you have already heard, to give you the right to pay the value of the property acquired in the process of privatization not only by the national currency of Ukraine, but by agreement with the National Bank of Ukraine and the free convertible currency, i.e. the dollar, the euro and others. Financial and economic justifications for the project. It is said that the adoption and implementation of this law does not require any additional expenditure from the Ukrainian budget. They're given to you, MPs, and the findings of the Supreme Council Science and Technology Authority. They are set out in three paragraphs, particularly the first, that only a foreign legal or natural person may be a buyer when privatizing for a freely converted currency. The other one. More details are given in the draft law as to how the money is sold between the seller and the buyer and whether it has an individual agreement on each object, whether it will be a general order with certain criteria: price, type of currency, amount. And the third point. According to today’s legislation, the only legal means of payment in Ukraine is the currency of Ukraine — the bracelet. Therefore, if the President's bill is to be adopted, it is necessary to amend some of the laws of Ukraine emanating from the draft. Thus, at the Committee on Economic Policy's meeting, Bill 8357 was fully considered and adopted by the Supreme Council's decree recommending to the people's deputies the adoption of a bill amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. And one more thing. On December 26, 2005, a letter came to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the Cabinet of Ministers stating that the Cabinet of Ministers supported the draft by the President of Ukraine on condition that the second part of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, after the words “National Bank of Ukraine”, should be supplemented by the words “in case of acquisition of an object of privatization by a foreign investor”. Thus, only a nonresident buyer can pay the cost of a free convertible object. And just friendly advice to the National Bank. You're not so far away from each other, so agree, the National Bank with the Cabinet of Ministers a bill that you're preparing for the President so that the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't address the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we be determined as to the decision? A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm in a hurry. Excuse me, please. I just jumped over. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Sergey Zizka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u23	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Bank, I want to understand, in the name of whom do we change the laws and adopt them? In the name of the people of Ukraine Really? Really. If so, we have to make it clear that the adoption of laws is not entirely in the interests of the people of Ukraine, for we have not yet reached the point where the national currency, the monetary unit, becomes a free convertible currency. She's not like that, she's a surrogate. Today we have a country of the euro, and today we have a state of dollars. There are no programs to eliminate unsecured foreign currencies in the state. This is one of the threats to Ukraine's national security. This is clearly to be understood. Now let's move on. So the state is contributing to the country's dollarization. And in this case, when article 21 gives the right to make payments in a freely converted currency not only to foreign investors, but also to domestic buyers, then the question of who's interested is completely gone. We are misleadingly creating conditions for a government decree that is legally and legally binding, a system of monetary regulation and monetary control, which determines that only a bracelet is the only means of payment in Ukraine, we are making early changes to that law. I'd like to ask you: can't we live without this law? Can we not live without this law? But we're asking. The president asks the question: Consider this bill as an urgent matter. The government law, which is now retired and in a terrible state, because no one can form a government, the state will be with that surrogate government, as with the surrogate bracelet of today's living state, we will now live with the surrogate government. We do not consider the law on government to be urgent; we do not consider the Law on Deputies Investigators to be urgent; we do not consider the law to be an urgent law; we do not consider it urgent; and here we must adopt an urgent law. Why? Do we care that they're going to lose half a percent in exchange? Well, please. Let them lose, let them change. And they're going to come to Germany -- they're going to change? They'll change, they'll respect that country's currency. Let them respect the currency of our country, it's called "the heat," and our businesses. So let them pay for the bracelet. I will not support this bill, even though it was passed by my President Victor Yushchenko, I will not support it, this bill. And I'm waiting for you to do everything you can to get the dollars and the euro expelled from Ukraine as a means of payment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u24	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u25	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! The successful sale of “Cruvoristals” demonstrated a willingness to come to Ukraine by large foreign investors. It is quite clear that the cost of privatization objects is more convenient for them to do so in a free convertible currency. The adoption of this bill will simplify the cost of privatization by foreign investors, i.e. it is essentially a small tip that will help improve the investment climate in Ukraine. I see. This rule should not extend to buyers who are residents of Ukraine. You can partly agree with the comments made by the Supreme Council Scientific and Expert Office on the need for more detailed regulation of the payment procedure in the bill. In particular, the first paragraph of part two of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property, in my opinion. It would be more appropriate to present the bill in a slightly changed version, namely, that the cost of the privatization object is paid in the Ukrainian monetary unit, or, if the buyer is a foreign natural person or a legal person, in a freely converted currency, in agreement with the buyer with the National Bank of Ukraine. A corresponding change is also to be made to article 3 of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control. These and other suggestions can be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. I therefore propose to adopt, in my first reading, the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of Property of State Enterprises, registration number 8357, introduced by the President of Ukraine, which is in agreement with the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u26	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u27	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, we all remember the speech of the minister of finance when we approved the budget, his indignation and the stalemate about social laws in connection with the fact that the budget of the Pension Fund is quite weak. So when we were looking at this bill at the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, we were surprised at the proposal of the President of Ukraine, and especially those who offered him such an initiative on this bill. The thing is, as you know, there's a position in the exchange of foreign currency on a bracelet and it's going to go to the Pension Fund. It's big or small, half a percent, it seems. But if, as an example of an object like Creebrisstal, the price of which, as you know, is $4.25 billion, the Pension Fund has reached $6 million,375,000. These are pension payments for a higher pension. The bill foresees that this is not necessary; it reveals the only thing for our pensioners. The main thing is to worry about investors. Therefore, as this bill shows, it does not matter which. Not only a foreigner but also a domestic investor can pay for privatisation in a foreign currency. You know, it's causing a whole series of objections. There are states in Europe. Slovenia, for example, decided to enter the euro area. Montenegro as part of the Federation of Serbia, which is already in the euro. This is their strategic course. I don't remember us in the Supreme Council making this decision about the principles of foreign policy -- going to the euro area or making a dollar on our economy. So we think that this bill only works in the hands of those who have large funds, and it's playing the opposite, and it's playing the opposite negative function for the few who have very few pensioners. That is why the faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, has great warnings about the appropriateness of adopting this bill, despite the fact that it is going under the heading “presidential”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u28	Yuri Solomatin, please. None. Eugene Gorenik, please. None. Leonid Chernewsky. None. Leonid Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. Please, Leonid Chernowitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u29	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies and those who listen to us. I believe that the bill submitted by the President deserves attention. Yeah. Leonid Chernovetski, faction of Our Ukraine. And there is nothing special that could threaten the security of Ukraine. This well-weighted bill and the currency of other countries should complete the mandatory funds and the National Bank, including the strengthening of the bracelet, which has been happening recently. I would like to tell you in general that, as an old man in the Supreme Council, and indeed a man who has already spent some time not only in the walls of the Supreme Council, the national currency of Ukraine has been strengthened. And that, including the National Bank and our bill, is perfectly normal, there can be no claim on it. I believe that it should be accepted because, compared to the richest countries in the world, for example, in Switzerland, a country where per capita income is several times higher than in other European countries, two fifths of the currency stocks are currencies freely converted by other countries. And if the free-convert currencies of other countries reach our country, our citizens will live only better. As for Ukraine's national currency, it had become so strong that, frankly, when I started my business, I could not think that Ukraine's bracelet would have such a weight. Today, it is hosted in any store, in any normal service organization, it is exchanged at the points of currency and especially in the 1990s. Everything is going well and if the National Bank of Ukraine, headed by Vladimir Seminović Stemach, supports the bill. He understands what this is about. By the way, I want to say that Vladimir Semenović is a wise and experienced man and his, I think, the fate as a national bank official should only start because, in principle, 65 years is only the beginning of a career in the National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property on Accounting for Purchases in Ukraine of Privatisation Objects has been completed. The committee's proposal to adopt the draft law as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, i.e. on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property on the Accounting of Purchasers in Ukraine. Registration number 8357, please vote. [[17:17:37]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We need to include in the agenda a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on Road Traffic Safety]] Registration number 8339. I'm voting on the inclusion of a very important bill in the agenda. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:18:18]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! Who wants to go back to the issue of the inclusion of registration number 8339 in the agenda of the bill, amending some Ukrainian legislation on the Road Safety Service? To return to the consideration of inclusion in the agenda. Please, let's define the vote. [[17:18:54]] For-182 The factions? Please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 18, Communists – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 30, National Party – 19, Block Timoshenko – 9, SPU – 26, National Block – 21, SDPU(o) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 9, “Rebirth” – 8, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “Reforms and Order” – 8, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 6, “Only Ukraine” – 4, “non-fractional” – 8. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to think about this bill, which is very important. And two factions require a 30-minute recess or an opportunity to make a statement, this is the faction “Our Ukraine”, the “National Movement of Ukraine”, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Please, who will speak from you? Boris Bespali has the right to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, the statement by the Party of the Block “Our Ukraine”. The parliamentary factions of the “Our Ukraine” bloc view the vote in the Supreme Council as an anti-constitutional attempt to destabilize the political and socio-economic situation in Ukraine. The unconstitutionality of the decision taken is evident in legal and procedural terms. Indeed, article 85 of the Constitution “To the powers of the Supreme Council also deals with the question of the resignation of the Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, the procedure is defined by article 87 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is perhaps a piece of paper broken by paint, but for “Our Ukraine” and the faction of our bloc, it is a sacred, dreamy age Ukrainian document. Therefore, we cannot look lightly at the abuse of this document. First, article 87 provides that a resolution on mistrust may be submitted only at the suggestion of the President or no less than a third of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Meanwhile, it was introduced by only two leaders, leading the Communists, Peter Simonenko, and Matthew. Secondly, according to article 87, part 2, the responsibility of the government cannot be dealt with by the Supreme Council more than once during one other session. Meanwhile, this session had already dealt with the issue on December 1st last year, and of course it was not supported by the deputies. So the legal evaluation here is obvious, clear and clear. This decision is such that it has not taken place since its adoption. From the political point of view of voting in favour of the decree, the faction “Ukraine’s Region”, the KPU, the social democrats who have long acted on principle, the worse, the better, no one is surprised. [[United]] The faction of the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko and its political allies, who did not vote in favor of the appointment of Yuri Yehanurov as head of government, as well as in favour of the budget, showed their consistency. Obviously, all these forces are trying to catch political fish and, in the murky waters, are destabilizing the economy, the social and the political situation. Surprisingly, the position of the factions under the control of the Speaker of the Supreme Council, Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Litvin, who have also flocked to show who is in the house of the masters after the reform of anti-government positions. Thus, the factions of the “Our Ukraine” Block urge the Ukrainian people not to give in to an unconstitutional provocative decision and to contribute to the exercise of their powers by the government. Thank you for your attention, and we look forward to supporting and understanding our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, since the name was used there, may I have a word for it? Well, first of all, we don't need to encourage people to act unconstitutionally. I would like to study the Constitution carefully. It's not about distrust, it's about resignation. These are different moments. I would also like to ask a respected man to study the Constitution first, and then to move on to a scream. Secondly, all factions of the Supreme Council are under control in order to organize the work of the Supreme Council. I'm very happy about that. I'd like to say, when we made a legal decision a year ago, that's why you didn't make the right statements. So calm down, please, and take it as a tribute. You should have worked better in the session hall and with the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Two more factions: the factions of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, “The only Ukraine” also require interruptions or performances. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, there was no and no gas crisis in Ukraine. The developed gas highway infrastructure allows Ukraine to have an equal conversation with Russia. But there's another crisis in Ukraine, there's a crisis of misunderstanding about Ukrainian power and Russia's strategic goal, and Russia's goal is not money for gas, it's Russia's goal: to demonstrate to Europe and the United States who owns the post-Radians space, and then to bring Ukraine back to its one-person sphere of influence. And the government of Yehanurov has played against these goals because the signed gas agreement establishes Ukraine's full monopoly on Russia and fully corresponds to Moscow's imperialist strategy. And another gift to the father of the king from the value of Ukrainian officials on the eve of the anniversary of the Pereaslav Council. According to the magnitude of the economic damage, the deal is the most terrible document signed during the years of independence and more than that, after signing this agreement, Ukraine not only becomes fully dependent on the Russian gas pipeline, but also depends on the semi-criminal gas structure "Rosukreenergo", which is founded by people who actually benefit 100 times the cost of Ukraine's interests. The signed agreement provides for a transit fee agreed by 01/01/2011, but does not set gas prices after 1 July. And so from the second half of the year, Russia can set us any fantastic price for gas, and our state is completely indebted to Russia. But the debt pit before Russia means one loss of independence, a loss so difficult for our people to choose from their own state. The agreement was so hastily signed that it did not even provide for anyone to settle disputes over gas issues that might arise between Ukraine and Russia, even the criminal authority of Kuchma envisaged resolving issues with the Stockholm Court and the legal institutions of other countries. Clearly, under this agreement all disputes were to be resolved in Moscow and the disgrace for Ukraine was even the humiliating fact that the agreement was written in Russian, which is contrary to all international standards under which such agreements are signed in the languages of the parties making it. The signed treaty is a clear betrayal of Ukraine’s national interests. Yet, the betrayal of national interests must be the responsibility of everyone, regardless of their position and social status and political declarations. Because everyone is equal before the law and Ukraine. And so the BUT faction strongly insisted that the government of Yehanurov, whose appointment the Supreme Council had granted only through the sad memo by Yushchenek and Yanukovich, should resign as one who had betrayed Ukraine. There is no guarantee that this government will not be able to repeat this betrayal again tomorrow. We call upon the Ukrainian society to be united and united in this extremely difficult period, when imperial Moscow is the one that is affecting the most sacred of all of us -- our nation, Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u34	I think the honourable colleagues who made a somewhat late statement are a little bit behind our dynamic time here in the session room. Dear colleagues, last one now. Let me once again put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the Road Safety Service, registration number 8339. Your Honors would like to determine how to vote. [[17:28:06]] For-138 I would be willing to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Peace Meeting Freedom Act, registration number 7819. Please vote. What, what? No, no. We have here the freedom of peaceful meetings, for inclusion in the order of the day. Please vote. We agreed to consider this issue at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, honourable colleagues. [[17:28:48]] For-137 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, today when we held the Conciliation Council, Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko argued the need to consider the bill. Please, Gennady Josephovich. Gennady Josephovich’s microphone Please. Gennady Josephovich, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u35	He wasn't involved. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for trying to get this bill into the agenda. Perhaps everyone is impressed by what a member of the People’s Movement suggests is unacceptable to the Supreme Council. I am very sorry that the Supreme Council did not include this issue in the agenda. On the eve of the election, we get hundreds and you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, receive hundreds of letters about the need to have a law that guarantees the fulfilment of the constitutional position, or Ukrainian citizens can meet peacefully without weapons and express their civil position. I'd like to vote again. It is not a political law, but today lawlessness can have very bad consequences in elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the Day Bill on Freedom of Peace Meetings. Registration number 7819, please vote. Please vote. [[17:30:49]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u37	I can't hear you. Well, we didn't put in the order of the day, dear colleagues. Your Honor, we didn't put it in the agenda, so please. A draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the holding of the Field Service]] Is there a reporter from the Cabinet? None. Please, the head of the Committee, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u38	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine. Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons I understand that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine no longer needs anything, because the bill, which was initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has no report. Nevertheless, life is not in place. This is about making changes to article 11 of the Act on “On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance”. [[concerning the holding of the Field Service]] This is a matter of very brief changes regarding the introduction of a single reading of various laws, and it is therefore a matter of making very brief changes to article 11 of the law, which refers to persons in charge, the regular composition of the Feldjeger Service, a specially authorized central executive body for communications and information. That is, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons carefully considered the document, supported it. Moreover, we believe that this document, given its technological nature, can be accepted not only as a basis but as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u39	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Minister of Transport and Communications Victor Vasilovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u40	Thank you. The bill is aimed at eliminating the differences between Ukraine's individual laws and Ukraine's primary composition. At the same time, paragraph 9 of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on “Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance” refers to persons who are subject to compulsory public insurance and are contributors to insurance contributions to the accumulated fund. At the same time, legislation on the pension provision of military personnel and members of Ukraine’s primary line of internal affairs is extended to this category. The proposed bill provides for the exclusion from the list of persons who are subject to the mandatory national pension insurance of the persons in charge, the regular warehouse of the Feldjeger service. Thus, we will resolve the legal conflict that has taken place today, allowing the Feldjeger service, pensioners, to receive a proper pension and receive it in accordance with the order that is foreseen for the Ministry’s employees where they are counted, where they are assigned, and where they are now. The implementation of this project does not require additional material and financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The bill agrees with all ministries, approved by the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. It was considered, and the committee supported, and decided to take the matter up to the Supreme Council. Given the above, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatoliyovich, do you mind if we vote on this document? Microphone, please turn on Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, because Carmazin signed up first. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, let us focus and see clearly that the error was its own time and that the inclusion in article 11, paragraph 9, of the Ukrainian Law “On the Compulsory State Pension Insurance” of the persons in charge, the regular composition of the Feldjeger service, to the specially authorized central executive authority on communications matters, was absolutely unfounded. Once this mistake has been made, we have to fix it now. So I want to make a proposal to vote in the first and second readings. Put on this dot and continue to remove this legal uncertainty, which is related to the service such as the Government-Kurrier connection of the Feldjeger service. And I would also like to say that, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, perhaps not everyone has understood about the previous law, about peace congregations. Yesterday, people, including my assistant, were not released to Dnipropetrovsk when it came to committee issues, and preparations for counterfeiting were being prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u43	Yuri Anatoliyovich, we discussed this bill on the Conciliation Council. I suggested, well, there's no support. We'll look for support in MP factions and groups. Sergey Shevchuk, you insist. Microphone, please. I'm the ones who signed up for the show. Then Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Since the recording is happening at midnight, at zero o’clock one minute, I’ll say the same very briefly. That the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will support this bill. It's not that big, but it's people, it's got to be taken care of, especially as far as pension insurance is concerned. The bill was prepared by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, and that is why we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u45	Yuri Solomatin, microphone, please, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u46	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Our faction proposes to support this law in the first and second readings and in general to put it at that point. Let's do this very, very clearly and in a very strict way, this noble procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u47	Honourable National Deputies are voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the first reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[concerning the holding of the Field Service]] Registration number 8043. Please vote. [[17:38:26]] For 243 The law is passed. It's being announced. So we accepted it as a whole. We've passed the law already. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 27, Communists - 55, National Party - 35, "Our Ukraine" - 16, Block Timoshenko - 29, SPI - 25, National Block - 21, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian National Party - 0, "Rebirth" - 9, National Movement of Ukraine - 8, "Reforms and Order" - 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 7, "One Ukraine" - 3, non-fractional - 8. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution, registration number 7498, has been announced for consideration. [[on Juvenile Prisoners]] Reporter Kirilo Polishchuk National Deputy of Ukraine, from the Committee to prepare. Please, who's going to perform? Ah, Peter Stepanovich Zibenko is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u48	Thank you. Kirilo Polishchuk, Democratic People's Party Block. Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution, provides for benefits for former juvenile prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos, and other places of forced imprisonment who were 16 years of age at the time of imprisonment. But real Ukrainian and European legislation considers minors to be 18 years of age. The bill provides for changes to article 6.1. Ukraine’s current law on victims of Nazi persecution, which includes the extension of benefits to former juvenile prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos, other places of forced detention for persons under 18 years of age at the time of imprisonment. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are positive. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u49	Yes, thank you, Kirilo Ananiyovich. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, this document is also of a technological nature in some ways because it makes it appropriate to amend the law on victims of Nazi persecution into Ukrainian law. In fact, in this document, the only thing that changes from 16 to 18 years is in line with European standards and our internal standards, I mean Ukrainian legislation. And so the committee, after a careful consideration of this bill, supported it first, and secondly, I propose, on behalf of the committee, to accept it. This change is accepted not only in the first reading but also in general. Because there's nothing to work on here, actually. The committee therefore supports this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u51	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials. The Supreme Council, appreciating positively the legislative initiative of the People's Deputies of Polishchuk, Boyka, Makeenka, Lvivina, considers it necessary to pay attention to the need for a change and to the other Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. Article six, part one, paragraph 17, of the two current Ukrainian law states that “compared to participants in hostilities”, is the quote, “the former minors, who were not 16 at the time of imprisonment, prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos and other places of forced detention created by the fascist Germany and their allies during World War II, as well as children born in the designated places of forced custody of their parents”. End of quote. And article seven, part three, includes persons with disabilities from the number, third, underage, quote, “who at the time of imprisonment were 14 years old, prisoners of fascist concentration camps and other places of forced detention who were recognized by persons with disabilities from general illness, disability and other causes”. End of quote. As a result of this difference, the same children have completely different rights. This is because, according to international and Ukrainian legislation, minors are considered under 18 years of age. It is also suggested that the article should be amended to include part three, part three, on the termological and age harmonization of the status of juvenile prisoners of fascist concentration camps and other places of forced detention that are recognized by persons with disabilities from general illness, disability, and other causes. To this end, insert the article seven parts of two paragraphs three in such an edition. Minors who were under 18 years of age at the time of imprisonment, prisoners of fascist concentration camps and other places of forced detention who were recognized by persons with disabilities from general illness, disability and other causes or minors who were under 18 years of age at the time of imprisonment, prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos, and other places of forced detention created by Fascist Germany and its allies during World War II, as well as children born in designated places of forced custody of their parents. Further changes to the Ukrainian Law “On Victims of Nazi Persecution” will have to be made, since articles 6, 6-2 of the Act provides for a quote “tolls from former juvenile prisoners, concentration camps, ghettos and other places of forced detention, recognized disabled persons, former minors who were not 14 years of age at the time of imprisonment”. And so, you see, 14, 16, 18, three years goes by, everything about minors. Prisoners of concentration camps, ghettos, and other places of forced detention, recognized with disabilities from general illness, disability, and other causes are granted such benefits. It is also necessary to harmonize the age requirements that I have mentioned. Please consider these proposals, vote either simultaneously with this project or include these proposals on second reading. I believe that this can be done without violating the content of that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u53	Thank you. Please, Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, our constituencies, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution in relation to juvenile prisoners and, indeed, this law envisages changing the 16-year value of former juvenile prisoners to 18-year-olds with the provision of this category of prisoners of appropriate benefits. This will also allow us to introduce the provisions of the bill in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which is a small child constitution and other laws, including a series of laws adopted by our committee, the Committee on Youth Policy, which has been established and established that underage citizens are citizens under 18 years of age. And I think that what we're adopting is this bill after the year that we celebrated, if we can call it, the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory of our people in the Great Homeland War. It is also a tribute to those underage, underage prisoners who have probably waited for more than a year for us to also pay attention and due attention to them, and at least some small allowance for life lost, for childhood lost, for the tears and for the grief that this category has experienced, now for Ukrainian citizens and then for underage citizens. This, of course, requires us to adopt this bill, all the more so that we gradually go to making decisions, so that every person who, at least part of his life, touches his soul to those turbulent years of the Great Homeland War, will be marked and it will be absolutely legal. These Ukrainian citizens must be separate chapters, separate pages in the history of our Fatherland, because they are truly unbreakable heroes, because they are really patriots of our country with you. Not about those in the woods who destroyed their Ukrainian citizens, but about those who lost so much in this great victory. We would like to vote in favour of this bill and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u55	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u56	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends! This is a perfectly normal, just bill, and the former prisoners of the fascist concentration camps have long been waiting and demanding, and our faction is backing the national deputy of Cibenk to enact this law in general. And it's clear here, and I wouldn't go to this high parliamentary rostrum if there wasn't one very important aspect. We are enacting a law on juvenile prisoners of the fascist concentration camps, but it is long overdue to make appropriate amendments to the law on victims of the political repression of the Stalinese regime. Similarly, define the category of juvenile prisoners in the Soviet regime. The Law on Victims of Political Repression was passed more than 10 years ago, and here on numerous occasions was an attempt by both our faction and our committee headed by Hennaday Josephovich Vudovenko to put this law here in the Supreme Council and amend it accordingly. In particular, identify categories of juvenile prisoners in Soviet concentration camps. And I want to point out that this category of juvenile prisoners of Soviet concentration camps is long ago defined in Russia, defined in Belarus, we've examined the legislation in detail on the committee, it's defined in all, without exception, of the former Soviet republics. And only Ukrainian juveniles have no status or benefits because they are Ukrainians and are guilty of it. And if we're really fair, if we have some sense of humanity, some sense of basic humanity, in the end, of pity for these children who were thrown into Stalin's Siberian prisons, then we have to finally put this bill on the victims of the political repression of the steel regime here in the hall and vote for the amendments that need to be made. In particular, the first step is to identify the category of minors in the Stalinese regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u57	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u58	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, Ukraine’s Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution, which defines the legal, economic, and organizational principles of State policy regarding victims of Nazi persecution and aims at their social protection and preservation of memory, no doubt constitutes an act of humanism at the national level. By an act that is more likely to convey an understanding of the society of the great tragedy that unites hundreds of thousands of depraved fates. For whether a person can be compensated for his terrible suffering during better years of life or for finally losing his health. Thus, the sorting of this area, in particular, the definition of the category and the procedure for granting benefits to former juveniles in concentration camps, ghettos, other places of forced detention created by Nazi Germany and its allies during World War II, as well as children born in the designated places of forced custody of their parents, will at least partially allow for the restoration of basic justice. The People's Party faction will support this bill and urge colleagues to do so. I mean, we have time to comply with all kinds of budget-related legislation, because we have procedures, because the legislative initiative in question will take effect on 1 January 2007 if the bill is approved. The bill was largely delayed for the entire life of these sufferers. And for those who are fortunate enough to live, it is mostly today that the sick, the sick, the poor, the elderly, are often forgotten by fate and people. So such a gesture of goodwill, and it is no longer such a great expense, will not only be an expression of humanity but also a good lesson for future generations. The faction of the People's Party and the People's Block of Lithuania asks colleagues to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please, at the offer of Yuri Carmazin. And invite the deputies to the session room, we have a decision to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko Well, first of all, I would like to emphasize that in order to act in full compliance with the Budget Code, I would like to say for the transcript that this document is due to enter into force on 1 January 2007. That's the first one. And the second. As noted by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. He is absolutely right in his observation, but two laws cannot be mixed. Moreover, what Yuri Anatoliyovich said, the Supreme Council has already done is all that is relevant to the Law on the Status of War Veterans in the issue he spoke about, these changes already adopted by the Supreme Council and since 1 January 2006, the category of victims of Nazi persecution no longer exists in this law. That is to say, the issue of the "On the Status of War Veterans" Act has been resolved. Thank you for your attention. We can vote on two readings of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u61	Yuri Anatolyevich. You take your warning in connection with such explanations. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, indeed, is part of what I've been saying, I've been talking about the unification of age requirements, and I've given an example that at the age of 14, at the age of 14, at the age of 16, at the age of 16, at the age of 18, here's what I've shown and said that in this case two readings should be adopted: in the first reading, then in the second reading, because the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution needs to be amended, because it is predicted, again, in another way. And that's a reduction in the number of people who are going to fall under this law, that's why I'm saying it. By the age of 14, or by the age of 18, these are four more years of children who fall under this law. So let's take the first reading, make the changes to this law, and the committee will consider it, and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u63	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please. We will now find clarification so that we can make a comprehensive decision. Please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u64	Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u65	May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u66	Yuri Anatolyovich! I'm talking to Mr. Carmazin. You proposed to amend the Law on the Status of War Veterans and to guarantee their social success. But from the "On the Status of War Veterans and Guarantee of Their Social Protection" Act, such a category as the victims of Nazi persecution has been removed, they are referred to the "Pro status" Act, all of them. Since January 2006, there has been no law in this category. That is, we are making changes, the only change to the Nazi Persecution Victims Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u67	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I think the committee here is right, let's support this case, because there's already a change in operation and all of these articles are deleted there. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote! Focus, please! In view of the fact that this law has been enacted since 1 January 2007, which meets the requirements of the Budget Code, I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in the first reading and in general as a bill amending the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution, registration number 7498. [[on Juvenile Prisoners]] Please vote. [[17:56:41]] For 296 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we continue our fruitful activity for 15 minutes. It's announced for consideration, well, let's now make this decision, we've already announced it. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Sudour of Ukraine, registration number 4061. [[concerning the release of a judge]] Well, let's look at one then, very quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u68	Thank you, People's Deputies! Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! Today, you have submitted a bill amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Sudokustra of Ukraine. The need for the adoption of this law is due to the special role of the High Council of Justice as the constitutional body of the State responsible for the formation of the judicial body obliged to exercise justice in a professional manner. As well as the decision-making officer responsible for violating the requirements of non-compliance by judges and prosecutors and within the scope of its competence to do so. Disciplinary responsibility. The right to exemption of a judge from administrative office is enshrined under the Higher Council of Justice in article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part 5 of article 20 of the Law on the Judiciary, and part 2 of article 1 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. The subject who finally decides to release the judge from office is the President of Ukraine. The form of appeal is enshrined in the Act on the Higher Council of Justice and the Rules of the High Council of Justice by directing the appropriate submission to the President of Ukraine. Thus, the right of the High Council of Justice to bring an application by the President of Ukraine for the dismissal of a judge from an administrative office is a right based on the constitutional status of the Supreme Council of Justice. However, the absence of “On the Court of Ukraine” in the Ukrainian Law gives rise to a mixed application of this law. I consider it appropriate to consider the adoption of this article of the law in the new edition, since the proposed changes will improve the quality of the work of the High Council of Justice and will help to consolidate its proper status and authority in order to create an effective and just judiciary. Thank you for your attention. And please support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u69	Vassil Vasilovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u70	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, today, in accordance with article 20 of the Law on the Court of Justice, can relieve the head of the court or his deputy of office or appoint the President in the same manner as the Head of the Supreme Court on the basis of a recommendation made by the appropriate council of judges or specialised courts or the Council of Ukraine. An offer is made for the High Council of Justice to have the right to do so. The very initiative to improve the legal basis for the work of the High Council of Justice deserves attention, but this proposal contradicts the Constitution, in particular article 131 of the Constitution, which provides that the Supreme Council of Justice may apply for the discharge of a judge rather than an administrative office. So to introduce this bill and consider how the law needs to be amended the Constitution. Thus, the committee decided to reject as being contrary to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u71	Yuri Carmazin, get ready for Catherine Samuel. You're invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the author of the bill of the People's Deputy Dobkin. Which, frankly, is extremely consistent. Why is it consistent? Because he was already questioning the adoption of the Code of Professional Ethics by the judge. If this codex were true, it probably wasn't what happened right now. When people are on the electoral list and registered as candidates of the national MPs, this is the head of the Supreme Court of Lord Pritika. The head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mallarenko, continued to carry out their service duties. Is that normal? Which country might be that, at all, please tell me. So if the codex of Dobkin had been adopted, that would not have been the case for a long time. But we have what we have, based on the fact that nothing else is provided for in the Constitution. And unfortunately, from the legal point of view of article 131 of the Constitution, which I keep before me all the time, because we have not yet given up, Vladimir Mikhailovich, another Constitution, we think that you will give up another option with your own autograph and wishes to us for the next job to each deputy, and that will probably happen tomorrow, today you will. There's a total of 67 deputies sitting in this room right now. Place 67, hand over the Constitution tomorrow, and everyone else is not a deputy, they know what they're doing -- business issues. That's why it's written here. Introducing the appointment of judges or the release of them from office. The Constitution does not contain any, Vasil Vasilovich. Administrative positions or not, they're not written here. So, on a large scale, despite the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority says there is no such thing, I can tell you that there is not just a separate application offered by Dobkin. He suggests that separate submissions be made. And here the Constitution says, on the basis of the application of the High Council of Justice. So all it takes is submission. The word “certainly ” is thrown out. But, Vasil Vasilovich, there's no administrative position here, let's not invent it, because we've already invented with you what we've created today and we're continuing to support the actual circular message. Today, the head of the Supreme Council appoints deputies in the judicial system of Ukraine, and nothing has changed. So let's take the changes that Dobkin is proposing, and let's not strain, the breach is there, the day is gone. Thank you. This will contribute to the democratization of the judicial branch of power, although in the Higher Council of Justice, it is now made so difficult to speak. Was there a meeting of scientists, please tell scientific institutions? There was a scientific conference, a convention was held, and everyone silent, the whole state is silent, absolutely illegal, and it is not legitimate for people to take office there! Illegally, they are not legitimately taking the lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u73	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u74	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I want to tell you that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is deeply saddened by the fact that we're cleaning or talking about another weight, more loyally, the second weight of control over judges, you think it's unconstitutional. You know, we have all the responsibility to start and end up in this bed or there. We applauded, we greeted with tears in our eyes, some of the flowers served, and we went to the judges to do our human destiny. And they're doing, looking at what a man's fortune is. If this person is rich, your attitude is quite different. And if you're just a human being, a Ukrainian citizen, you're nowhere, I emphasize, in no court will you find justice in this state. I've faced this a thousand times myself. Recently, a year ago, Judge Odinsov was confirmed. What am I supposed to do, wait for Mallarenko to figure it out?Oh, my God! I handed over the statue six months ago. No one is concerned about this! The judge basically and just two days does two sentences for the same person because the person is pretty attractive to him: 500,000 stole from an organ, and that's in a small town where there's only 17,000 people. And now I don't know how old we are in the century to get the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to be released! A man breaks the law, a man disregards the law, a man demeans the dignity of a man, a man -- the same One, I emphasize -- takes bribes openly, and we can't do anything, wait for someone to touch it on this pyramid and someone to say it?Oh, my God! Vasil Vasilovich, you know how to do this. And now we have every year, every year, when we just give a letter to an unjust, just unworthy attitude towards a person -- they give us a letter saying, "You push." Excuse me, you've squeezed human beings in man! You didn't give her a chance to defend herself by law, and we're getting these receipts. Therefore, whether we want to or not, we may want to read again, but we need to adopt such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u75	Another speaker. Sergey Shevchuk is delegating the right to speak to Vasil Onopenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, you know, respect for the right, respect for the right to justice, start with justice in this room. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I would like to draw your attention to what, indeed, in the Constitution, in article 131, is about the positions of judges. But there are other laws, there are codes, there's a law on the judiciary, where it's about administrative positions, there's heads, there's courts, there's their deputies. And it is their order of release and appointment that is determined by the Law itself. That's why I think we need to set things straight in the courts. And we do. And it was in this room that we made a lot of decisions regarding the publication of court decisions. I think the President will sign this law soon, when any decision is taken by the local court, or the Supreme will be on the website, and anyone can get acquainted with that decision. We need to improve the work of the High Council of Justice. And now we're preparing a bill to have 50 plus one judge, like in many countries in Europe. And they made the right decisions, including disciplinary decisions. But to make these changes that contradict the Constitution is a quality thing that is impossible. That's the position of the Supreme Court, that's the position of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, that's the scientific organization. Well, there's Yuri Anatoliovich's position, he's also her, he's right, and I respect her too. But I have to respect the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u77	Just a minute. Let's get this over with, then we'll have a line. Please, Karmazin. Then the author of the draft decision. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u78	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you very much for admitting that there is no violation in the Constitution itself, that is, Dobkin did not violate the Constitution by his bill. And the fact that his proposal conflicts with other standards of other valid laws does not yet indicate that this is the basis, and we cannot violate it. What's important is that I've brought you here now, and you've agreed that the violation of the Constitution is not allowed, and that the first reading is acceptable. And I'll tell you more. Dokkin was on the other side of the barricade, he fought against me, against us, fought on Odessa, fought elsewhere. But let's talk about the truth. And the truth has no party, and the truth has no color. And that's what distinguishes the block that I lead, Yuri Carmazin's block, and I say that's fair. Let us accept it in the first reading and then accept it in the second reading. And that, despite the fact that it was my adversary in principle, and now, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u79	Mikhail Dobkin, please. The author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u80	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I've never been an opponent. Maybe that's not what the political opponent is. I would like to say that the words that have now been spoken in the speech of the distinguished Jury Anatolievich are words, I am not afraid of that word, the patriot of Ukraine, and if we had all thought about it, I think we would have had completely different legislation. I mean, I'm very respectful of my head, I'm not going to call my name so that we don't give a line, but I don't agree that we have to wait for the President to make any decision. We will then wait for years, and the President sometimes makes decisions that are totally contrary to the decisions of the Supreme Council. Let us say that today he has already commented that the decision of the Supreme Council on the resignation of the Government was illegal. Well, that's why I propose to adopt this law on first reading, refine it and then adopt it in the second and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-01-10-m1.u81	Yes, Your Honor, the consideration of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice of Ukraine on the release of a judge has been completed. The first sentence is put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Adoption on the basis of the draft law, registration number 4061 on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice. [[concerning the release of a judge]] Please vote. [[18:11:24]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue work at 10:00, we'll have a morning and evening plenary meeting tomorrow. Working on committees and factions during a break of 14 to 16 hours, please bear that in mind.
