ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u1	Good morning, national MPs, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, radio audiences, TV sets! Friday, December 15. On December 15th, the action "Ukraine Without Couchma" began six years ago. There's a photo exhibit on the third floor, you can see. Andrew School can see himself, there's a photograph of him. In the meantime, I ask the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:48]] The 433 deputies showed a desire to work in the session room today. The morning session is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Georgi Grigorovich Ponomarenko. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Above all, we wish him health, patience, goodness, and success in legislative activities. Dear National Deputies! On December 14, 2006, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian national deputy elected on March 26, 2006 in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovic, who was included in the election list of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u3	We welcome Mikhail Vasilovich with his office, his oath, and we wish him success in his work. Ladies and gentlemen, today's professional festival is Judge's Day. Yesterday, we elected a large group of judges on an untimely basis, wishing that they would feel that they had never been wrong about choosing a profession like all judges, and that those who go to court would never be disappointed with the way the court works. Let's welcome the entire judiciary with this holiday. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been questions from the National MPs: PINCHUKA, ANTEMUCA, CERNOVOL and others to the President of Ukraine for the appointment of Alexander SKIPAL as deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Donetsk region. In order to submit this request to support this request, I would like to vote on the proposal of the national MPs, please. [[10:06:44]] For 225 The decision is taken, it's in support. And as for the orientation, it's going to take 226 votes. If you support me, I'm voting on this proposal. Please. That's the President's request. [[10:07:15]] For the 250. Thank you. Alexia ZURAVKA to the President of Ukraine about the situation surrounding the head of Herson’s district administration, Silenkov Boris Vitaliovich. I would like to put to the vote the question of supporting the content of this question. Please. [[10:07:45]] For 243 Decision taken. And I am also voting on this motion to the President. This, by the way, applies to all factions, all interested ones, so as to determine the point. There's a vote on the direction. [[10:08:08]] For 239. Decision taken. MIKOLI DANILYNA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment to article 24 of Ukrainian Law No. 1058 of 9 July 2003 on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" in the part of the period during which insurance contributions are kept, but are not listed in the Pension Fund due to the non-payment of wages in enterprises that are in bankruptcy and rehabilitation. Olga BODNAR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on tariffs for gas for religious organizations. Mr. Alexander KEMENYACHA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the Financing of the National Commission of the Alimentarius Codex. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the steps taken to pay off the arrears of employees of the state-owned enterprise "The Ukrainian Glass Research Institute" of the city of Constantine's Donetsk Region. Mikoli SIVULSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Andrey KLEYEV for refusing to replace the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Mikhail Korneyenka, “as a member of the Interim Commission”, i.e. Sivullski, “the Supreme Council of Ukraine to familiarize itself with documents that testify to the deployment of leaders and specialists of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine” outside Ukraine during July 2004. Mikoli SIVULSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Andrey KLEYEV for refusing to provide properly certified accounting documents between Naftogaz Ukraine and Roskrenergo for the acquisition of natural gas. Alexander SCIENCE to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the proper consideration of the MP’s request for the provision of the disabled person of war and the group by car and to provide an answer to the essentially affected question. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for the provision of a health and epidemiology control station in the city of Kostunica in the Donetsk region and the development of a regional environmental programme at the expense of the State Environmental Protection Fund. Vasila KYSELOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal use of state property by a limited company under the responsibility of the Black Sea Broadcasting Company. Alexia Feduna to the Attorney General, Prosecutor General of the Kyiv region, Prosecutor of the Makarov region of Kyiv district for violations of the constitutional right of citizens to privatize the land free of charge. Leonida GRAČ to the Attorney General on the illegal actions of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting in relation to Trans-M Radio. [[limited liability company Artex Studio]] Dmitry SANDLER, OSICI’S Sergey to the Attorney General, Ministry of Health, regarding the gross violation of the requirements of effective legislation that harms the health of the inhabitants of the Pecher district of Kyiv. Alexia MALINOVSKO to the Attorney-General for failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal by the prosecutor of the Dili district of Kiev by Vasil Dragoz and for ignoring the information by the law enforcement authorities of the Ukrainian National Deputy on the detention of his assistant consultant, which is a violation of article 16, paragraph 2, and article 34, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. The Group of Deputies to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the need to resist attempts to seize the administration of the Kyiv Union's closed-circuit Association and to bring the guilty to justice. [[ZBARSKI, ANDROS, PETER MELNIK]] Mr. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the Attorney-General for a formal write-off from the prosecutor's office in Kiev for a parliamentary appeal to the Attorney-General's Office of Ukraine regarding the falsification of the disappearance of a 14-year-old girl named Semenenko Alexander Volodyrimyrovna. JAROSLA MENDOWA to the Attorney General of Kiev, the head of the city of Kiev, for the verification of the rightfulness of granting permits for the construction of a 22-story building in Kiev at the corner of the streets of Professor Karavayev and Jablonsk. OMELA’S PARUBKA TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration for an unsatisfactory response to a previous request. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on the need for an official translation of international normative instruments on the way to Ukraine’s integration into the World Trade Organization. Alexander CERNOMOROVA to the Head of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mr. Andrija ŠEVČENKA to the Chief of the Directorate-General for Automatics, Telemechanics and Communications of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine for the integration of the Farlep-1500 station in the city of Fastov Region into the network of general use. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA to the prosecutor of the Lviv district for dissatisfaction with the response of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv region to the parliamentary appeal regarding the attempt to privatize the immovable property of the State educational institution. We're sending these bills to the addressees. Next, we will consider the issues that have been put into the order of the day. And immediately so that there are no questions, since yesterday we did not have time to consider the Opposition Law, on the Conciliation Council, the initiators insisted that it should not be considered on Friday, but on Thursday, or on other days, we put it on Tuesday to make it clear that the issue was not delayed. For information on the seventh meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of the Supreme Council and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, co-chair of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! As we know, on December 5th this year, the seventh meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation took place in Kiev. The meeting was attended by members of the commission, representatives of the authorities of the Russian Federation of Ukraine, and coworkers of diplomatic representation. The Parties agreed to consider three issues: first, the status of the implementation of the friendship, cooperation and partnership agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation; second, the agenda and venue of the eighth meeting of the Committee on Cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation; and third, the “Various”. The President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, welcomed the participants. He expressed the hope that the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission would be beneficial for everyone to realize that the relationship was going to be settled for a long time. In turn, the first deputy head of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, co-chair of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of Cooperation of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Love Slicka, positively appreciated the implementation of the friendship, cooperation and partnership agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. She stressed that Russia has a consistent desire to deepen its relationship with Ukraine. At the same time, Love Sliska noted that the friendship, cooperation, and partnership agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation did not take full account of all the problems that have arisen in bilateral relationships recently. In particular, this is the issue of granting status to state Russian language, the irregularity of the problem of the distribution of assets and liabilities by the Soviet Union, the issue of Ukraine's accession to NATO, the recognition by the Supreme Council of famine in genocide against the Ukrainian people. Perhaps the recognition of UN UPA soldiers, the borderline of the Kerchen Strait, and others. In spite of these circumstances, however, the relationship between the Russian Federation and Ukraine seems to prevail in many areas. For his part, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, for the reasons expressed by Love Slug, pointed out that there is a linguistic problem in Ukraine, but most of it is a problem of Ukrainian language. Commenting on the recent approval by the Supreme Council of the Hungermare Act in Ukraine in 1932-1933, Alexander Moroz expressed the view that the adopted law was a moral and ethical problem to be put at risk. He also noted that Ukraine's position on NATO is about developing co-operation; Ukraine's decision to join NATO can only be taken in the Universal referendum. The system of collective security in Europe must be strengthened by taking into account the interests of Russia and Ukraine. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stressed that there are no objective prerequisites for complicating Ukrainian-Russian relations. The meeting discussed a wide range of bilateral relations. The presentations marked the recent positive developments, the intensification of interparliamentary relations. At the same time, participants stressed the problems that exist, especially in the economic, social, and humanitarian spheres, and the expansion of cross-border and inter-regional cooperation. In dealing successfully with these and other issues, the Ukrainian and Russian deputies believe that the parliaments of both nations have a significant role to play. Ukrainian parliamentarians were the only ones that should not focus solely on the list of problems that hinder the development of our cooperation. Rather, we should seek ways to resolve them together, giving more attention to solving economic, humanitarian issues in our relationship. Both sides stressed the need for greater tolerance in relationships. Despite noting the differences in views among the parties, the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of Cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation in the summary document noted the positive role of the Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation in the dynamic of cooperation between parliaments and the parliaments of the two states. The Commission noted that relations between the Russian Federation and Ukraine are aimed at developing a good-neighbourly strategic partnership between the two nations and strengthening international regional security and stability. Parliamentarians in two countries have agreed to step up efforts to improve constructive relations in all areas of parliamentary activity, to exchange delegations, including at committee level, to study the practice of the parties in developing and adopting legislative acts, the experience of parliamentary activity, and to exchange information on the current legislative work on a regular basis. The meeting decided to support efforts to improve the contractual framework, to implement bilateral agreements that are necessary for the further implementation of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. In particular, here, in the first place, our part of the delegation has given a lot of attention to the mutual trade agreement, the free trade agreement, but unfortunately, we haven't gotten a full understanding from the Russian side. The participants also agreed to support the efforts of the parties to expedite the drafting of the Declaration on the Content of the Russian-Ukrainian Strategic Partnership, so that this document could be signed by the Presidents of Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the next visit to Ukraine by Vladimir Putin, which was known to take place soon. The Commission noted that inter-parliamentary cooperation remains important for further development and improvement of the entire relationship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The decision was taken next, the eighth meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation Commission between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Parliament of the Russian Federation to be held in Moscow in the first quarter of 2007. The agenda will be further agreed and it will go with the decisions of the Ukrainian-Russian Interstate Commission. So it's going to come out of the meeting between the presidents and Ukraine and Russia, which is going to take place next week. I suggest you take this information for granted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u5	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. We take Adam Ivanovich’s familiar information and approach the next question. It should be included in the agenda first. This is a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[concerning the granting to the Supreme Court of Ukraine the right to legislative initiative]] [[Project O. Shustika and so on]] I'm putting to the vote a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the day. [[10:22:49]] For 122 This initiative is supported by 122 national deputies. Let us take a separate look at it at the Conciliation Council. 122 votes and all. We didn't discuss the matter. It's a procedure. Please. In the second reading it is proposed to review the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the delimitation of the number of cases assigned to the courts and to the general courts]] He will report to the first deputy chairman of the Justice Committee, Oniszczuk Mikola Vasilovich. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u6	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Yesterday we began a second reading of the bill on the allocation of cases to subordinates, courts of commerce, and general courts. It's anti-rider law. It took some time to reconcile certain positions that were important, for that would change procedural laws, distinguish jurisdiction. So that's a very normatively protective material with which every letter was required, each one that was further tested and reconciled. In the course of the past day, the Justice Committee, together with the Ministry of Justice, the Chief Scientific and Legal Office, has been working on these positions, and today we are actually ready to complete the consideration of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u7	Okay. By the second reading procedure, I propose that we focus on the amendments made by the people’s deputies. The first amendment of the people’s parliament, Krutz, was rejected by the committee. What would the national deputy Krutz say?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u8	So that's what it is. There's no objection to Krutz? None. The second and third amendments are included. It's Pritika and Onichuka. Vidrine's fourth amendment is rejected, he doesn't insist, I see, to vote on it. The fifth, Pritiki, is counted. The sixth amendment of Dmitri Mikitovich was rejected. Are you insisting on her? Give the word to Pritika.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u9	Dear National Deputies! We voted for this amendment yesterday, it's over 400 votes, and I repeat, if we don't accept it, we're going to break the substance of the relationship, and then our law won't reach its goal, because we want all the privatization-related disputes to be concentrated in one court system to determine the personal responsibility and the judges, including, and coordinate court practice, and we, if we don't accept this amendment, we break these things. So please, once again, please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u10	Mikola Vasilovich, what do you say? We voted yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! A moment of your attention is natural, considering the committee's amendment, and it's something different than what Dmitri Mikitovich says. We are already dealing to a large extent with the problem, since the dispute over privatization issues will be dealt with only by the commercial court at the site of the privatisation facility. And this would exclude the possibility that courts throughout Ukraine have accepted some of them to do so, taken legal action, and, in fact, torpedoed the privatization process. This will not be the case now, since privatization will be dealt with solely by the Economic Court at the site of the privatisation object. However, it should be borne in mind that the privatization process is contained in both civil law and public law. Thus, when it comes to accusing the actions of a public authority or an official in the privatization process, and this is the beginning of privatization, there is a proposal, and it is reflected in the right column, it is the position of the Justice Committee to deal with these issues by the administrative court at the location of the object of privatization. I mean, actually, Dmitri Mikitovich, we're taking an important step in this direction, but whether we're going to bring together the administrative conduct of the household court is actually going to be decided by the hall. The position of the committee is that it is not worth unifying because we are violating the concept of the distribution of administrative relations, which today refer solely to the competence of the administrative courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u12	Mikolo Vasilovich, I have a question. On the first reading, we accepted the wording of this paragraph exactly as proposed by Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika. And in the right-hand column, somehow it appeared in a shortcut. What is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u13	What was voted in the first reading, however, contains the position, the honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, see that the courts, apart from privatization disputes such as those, have the right to consider administrative disputes of a legal nature, i.e. the recognition of acts as invalid. This is jurisdiction under the Code of Administrative Justice, which is approved by Parliament, the Administrative Court. I mean, we're actually essentially narrowing down the courts that have the right to deal with disputes arising from privatization. At the same time, we're focusing on the main range of disputes in the domestic courts, but where we're talking about administrative relations, relations, this has to be considered by the administrative court at the location, in this case by the public authority, whose actions will be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u14	In other words, you carried the seventh amendment to the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u15	Yes. That's why it's in the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u16	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u17	That's why the position of the committee is reflected in the right column.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u18	Pritika, a national MP, insists on voting on his amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u19	Attention! [[10:29:55]] For-200
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u20	The decision is not taken. The seventh amendment is counted, there is no objection. The eighth Kiwalov, it's edited. The ninth is fully accounted for. The 10th is rejected. But the national MP, Vidrin Dmitri, does not insist on her voting. The 11th amendment does not insist, nor is it supported. Is there any other way of thinking? No, there isn't. The 12th Pritiki amendment accounted for partially. The 13th Cruise is dismissed. He does not insist on reviewing this decision. 14th Onechuk is accounted for. The 15th is edited, by Dougie. So 16th Cruise and 17th Onechuk are completely accounted for. The 18th Pritika accounted for, the 19th Oneschuk also counted 20th and 21st. The 22 amendments were rejected, but Deputy Vidrin does not insist on seeing them. The 23rd amendment of the powder and the 25th rejected by Krutz. He agreed. The 26th Long is rejected, he's got nothing to do with it. 27th Oneschuk is accounted for. 28 is also counted and 29 is rejected. Dmitri Mikitovich insists that it be voted on. And the 30th Onechuk is accounted for. 31st Oneichuk. 32nd Dust and 33rd Kiwalov's readjustments. The deletion of part two, part two, of article 17. The resulting amendment of Kiwalov 34 and 35 Long was rejected. 36 Otterina is counted, and 37 are rejected. 38 Kiwala counted, 39 Long counted as an editorial. Onichuk made 40 amendments, it was partially counted, and 41 Pressures are accounted for. 42 I have the right to vote on one of the amendments to take account of everyone on the committee and to put this bill to the vote for adoption in general. Registration number 2258. I'll bet you a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u21	Attention! For! [[10:33:04]] For 364
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u22	364, the law is passed. Thank you. A draft Law on the Moratorium on the Seizure of Property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, is under consideration. Here is the reporter, Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. Please find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u23	My fellow Members, I would like to point out immediately that the main purpose of this bill is to suspend the mass, uncontrollable and opaque sale of property by the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, which is in its possession. The accusations of nationalization, or perhaps the alienation of the property of the trade unions, are unfounded. First, it's one of the associations of trade unions called the Federation, secondly, the Federation's leadership today is alienating members of trade unions and their property. Our task with you is to reach the legislative level of execution of numerous decisions. In 1992, 1994, in 1996, the Supreme Council decided that the property of professional organizations was temporary until the legal definition of property subjects was considered to be state-owned. I would like to point out that there have been several orders that are not being implemented. Instead, the leadership of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine considers such property to be private property. As a result of this questionable situation, the leaders of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, beginning in 2005, have opened up a feverish sale of property and, above all, health - care workers. The Explanatory Note by the Management Board, a member of the Bureau of the FPU from the Management of Property, which is initiated by the management of the Federation, confirms: ZAT “Ukrprofession”, ZAT “Ukrproftur” for 2005-2006 -- listen carefully, 34 objects, 34 sanatoriums for eight million dollars. So one sanatorium in beautiful, ecologically clean recreational areas in Ukraine went from hand to hand for 250,000 bracelets is the price of a one-bedroom apartment in Kiev. In 2005, the Federation sold to the private structure its entire package of shares in a sanatorium complex in the city of Truscavets, known worldwide. Another 28 items were announced for sale. Responding to this behavior of the profbosses, responding to complaints and complaints from places, the President of Ukraine in the summer of 2006 commissioned the Government of Yuri Yehanurov to conduct an inventory of property in the possession of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions and to identify its owners. A commission was set up, and a fund of state property was involved. Unfortunately, after their work began, the F.B.I.’s sales management increased considerably. Thus, in a draft decree to be considered at the F.B.I. Presidium, some 40 health workers have been proposed to refer to the unsuspecting and to the sale. Among the sanatoriums in Crimea, Odessa and Zakarpatta, and known to all of us, especially the Ukrainian National Deputies, who are involved in the social rehabilitation of the sick, the Yellow Sanatorium, located in Concha Zaspa, about four and a half acres [4.5 ha]. But where, you know, today, hundreds of land costs tens of thousands of dollars. It is not surprising that this behavior of professional officials receives negative reactions from Ukrainian media in organizations and places. I am sending you to an article in the “Governmental courier”, where the correspondent, having more opportunities and time than I've set up, explains this scheme of these rings, as being bought in pieces, falls apart for the sake of the land that is over the sea of the Eupatoria, either in Alushta or in Odessa. Dear colleagues, I will not waste my time. I'll save you time to answer your questions. Bill 2257 has been discussed in all the profile committees, has been approved by all ministries and departments, has the approval of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and is supported by other associations of professional organizations. And if it is adopted, it will prevent further illegal alienation of property that is currently in the actual possession of the Ukrainian trade union federation before the Law is adopted, the legal regime of property of all nations, public associations and organizations. I'd ask for a session room and ask the chairman for it. That this bill had been going to the session hall for a very long time, in the last paragraphs of the dates that were already out of date, so it would be possible to vote in favour of this bill on the basis and, in general, if it were to be given for three months of implementation and implementation. Thank you for your attention. I am ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u24	Is there a question for Jaroslav Mikhailovich? Yes, of course. I see. Please write it down. Ten minutes, please. Lappina. Say the word to the Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u25	Mr. Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u26	I passed the Bondaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u27	Alexander Bondar, U.P.R. "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! I fully agree with your law, and this is a matter to be settled. How do you feel about having a parallel commission to create a special commission of investigators to verify the alienation of all professional property and to provide us with options for its return to state property? Because we have a unique situation that has never existed in any country of the world: property that has never been declared stateless since 1991 has been sold throughout this whole period has been managed by trade unions as their property. I think this question is very relevant to the creation of a special temporary commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u28	Thank you. Honorable Alexander Mikolaiovich, just during your leadership of the State Property Fund of Ukraine at the suggestion of the Demmeine Foundation, a Supreme Council decision was adopted, which was said to be “temporary, pending recognition of the legal prohibition status. ” “ I don’t know Regrettably, the Federation's leadership has changed trade unions, and the Ukrainian State Property Fund, and the quality composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We didn't prove it to the end. I find this proposal extremely relevant. We need to create such a commission and verify, starting in 1991, who was the first to sell? Second, what alienated this property from? Third, where did the money go? If this money went to reinvest in new health care, that's great. If they're going to keep the clerks' equipment, it's a disgrace. Who bought it? What did he have to do with this Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions? How much did he buy for? Here there are Ukrainian national deputies from Crimea, who can tell you how much the land in Eupatoria costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u29	It's a good thing you didn't hear what you said. The Volinac asks a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u30	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Laishka?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u31	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u32	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Obviously, there is no legal basis for directing the Ukrainian Federation of Trade Unions with the property of the state-owned social organizations of the former Soviet Union, as this is also reported by all competent Ukrainian authorities. But I think it should be more than just a moratorium on the alienation of the property of sanatorium and tourism, but all the property that is in the possession of the Federation is in the illegal possession of the Federation. However, it is necessary to set a time limit for this moratorium. That is to say, it should be, as a minimum, before the adoption of a legislative act on the definition of property rights. That is, it is not for three months of moratoriums that someone in the “Yellow” sanatorium should buy, but until the Supreme Council adopts the law and determines the fate of this property in the interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u33	Thank you. You know, your proposal is fully in line with the comments of the Ukrainian ministries and departments, including the trade unions of other national trade unions of Ukraine, the National Confederation of Independent Trades, the National Confederation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, which say the same thing as it should not only be about health workers, it should be about the stakes, the pies in statutory foundations, who created the Ukrprofesssortura, who created the Ukrproftur, who these people, if they are natural persons or legal persons. Of course, we need to find out. I thank you for this question, and I will ask you at the end of my speech with the last page of this bill, in view of his delay in time, to be moved, including with those suggestions. Not until December 1st, but until February 1st, because December ends. Anyway, I'm going to keep talking about this in order to vote in the session room as a whole. In general, the offer is certainly worth the attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u34	Taran. He doesn't insist on words. Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u35	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Stepan bubbly, faction of socialists. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I would like everyone to hear how the leaders of the unions perceive the idea of your bill? Because the line members of the trade unions, I think, are also interested in knowing how they handled the property, including the transferred state in the use of trade unions. And could you name those most insidious opponents of this bill in the leadership of knowing the heroes, Ukraine should know its heroes. In fact, trade unions should really protect people, but when they protect property, and not their own, then there is really a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u36	Thank you. You know me, you personally know me not the first year, and the national deputies of Ukraine's third call can confirm. I rarely let myself name names from the rostrum because these names can be heard by the whole country. People have families, they're familiar, I won't call them names. I very much want these names to be called by our commission of inquiry, which we should certainly create here, first. In general, the leadership of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions is very hostile to my bill. I'm not going to talk here about the ways that were used to take it off, call it off, encourage me or intimidate me. This is absolutely not the case with our bill. Let's say, with the adoption of this bill, we are giving people today the opportunity to work together in Alushta, Saka, in Eupatoria, under Kiev, under Odessa to work peacefully. They'll know, no one's selling them anywhere, they're not re-profiled. These homes, where the workers are resting with their children, will not be destroyed. So we're allowing people to watch and wait courageously and confidently in the summer of 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u37	Litvinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u38	Deputy Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u39	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u40	I certainly care about this law, Your Honor, because I worked for the Federation of Trades for a while. You know how much the possibilities of selling the property relate to me, and I'll let you know if I can make a statement. There were a lot of laws, but today I see the most professional law, above that, even me, already such a professional boss, impressed by the figures that you called, about the sale of property in bulk and the difference. I have a question: Jaroslav Mikhailovich, what happened, what was the economic tragedy in the state, what was the social tragedy in the state, that when there were problems, we held back and today we're selling off the road? And the second question is, really, when questions are asked, what next? Moratorium. What's next? When it is finished, what is the mechanism for further management of this property? I would like to hear more clearly your answers to these questions so that the MPs are finally identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u41	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, your concern at this bill is quite clear to me, I think, and to many of the Ukrainian people's deputies, it's perfectly natural. I'm not going to tell you what prompted today's leadership to sell out, and mass, dozens, I think they're going to tell our investigation committee that we're going to create. I just want to say that it's not that easy, because today, if Valentina Seminyuk were here, she confirmed. The Holding Fund of Ukraine is still unable to clarify what property it is, where it is, because the argument sounds like this "It is none of your business, it is our private property". I can't understand if this is private property, the leadership of the FPO of two, three, four? So how they bought this property for private property, by ransom, by winning the cards, by their aunt from Canada, by mystery to me. What's next? Then we wait for the adoption of the bill, this moratorium is not eternal, it's temporary, until the adoption of a bill that defines the legal status of this property. It has to be all by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u42	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u43	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. A fast, socialist faction. Jaroslav Mikhailovich! You know what that effort was in the past when a similar bill was passed, the truth is it wasn't as solid as we just did -- me and Baranowski. And you know how the unions then took all of our efforts, which was the noise that was the basis. The first question is, how can you prevent pressure from starting again personally for you to give up this idea is first. The other one. Still, I'm concerned about the future of that property, if that's how it works, if it's written down, should the state handle it, or should we sell it? And what about the earth? Because today the mass of sanatoriums that are present in Crimea and who do not pay taxes for the land but have benefits. And what I'm saying is, if the local authorities had the opportunity to take money for this land, they would be making a lot of money out of their budget and not going to the state budget, what are your thoughts on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u44	Thank you. Vitaly Yakovic, you know, unfortunately, your bill, I remember it very well, it didn't go through because the stormy events started, but it was a strong opposition to the then leadership of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions on the verge of an hysterical breakup and so forth. I want to tell you that the initiative of this bill was directed by the President when he gave orders to the government of Yehanurov. One more. The initiative turns out, I used to work in Crimea a long time ago, in 1990, and those chief doctors of the Austinians started calling me as a deputy and complaining, "What's going on?" Why are we being reprofiled? I began to consult the State Property Fund with Valentina Petrovna, and it became clear that the State Property Fund of Ukraine has been unsuccessfully trying to inventory this property for years, so what does it represent? What is the fate of the builders? Who was, and you know, so-called builders. What is the state's fate in terms of funds? What's the role, what's the part of the unions themselves? We didn't set it up. So I think our bill will stop for now. No one's gonna take any of this stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u45	Sit down, please, thank you. A report from Mikhail Mikhailovich Chechtchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u46	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 31 October 2006 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on the Seizure of Property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, introduced by the national deputy Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. As already reported by the author, the draft Law on the Moratorium on the Seizure of Property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, proposes to introduce a temporary moratorium on the alienation, lease or other use of physical and legal persons of immovable property of sanatorium and tourism purposes, other basic means of production, which are in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, as well as subjects of management, participants or shareholders or founders of the federation, as well as the frequency and rations of agricultural societies that carry out appropriate activities in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine. Such a moratorium should be in place before the adoption of a legislative act on the identification of property rights subjects in the knowledge of the Federation. Although the bill deals with the property of the Federation of Trade Unions, it would like to point out that the issue of the identification of property subjects for the property of all the federal public organizations of the former Soviet Union has been considered by the Supreme Council in fact since Ukraine’s declaration of state sovereignty, that is, since 1991. Various decisions have been made on this issue, but, at the legislative level, despite repeated attempts, this issue has not been settled until now. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill as a basis and proposes that a number of comments and suggestions be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. In particular, the Administration proposes to extend the moratorium not only to the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine but also to all other entities that use the said property without legislative determination of ownership. The Ministry of Economy of Ukraine, in its letter, supports the bill of the People's Deputy of Dry. Ukraine’s State Property Fund made proposals to separate articles of the bill. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour recommends the adoption of an outdated bill as a basis. The Committee on Economic Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on the Seizure of Property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, which was introduced by the national deputy Jaroslav Suhim. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u47	Any questions? Please sign in. Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u48	Please give me the word of Kucherenko Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u50	Thank you. I have questions for Mr. Chechtov. Well, with regard to this law, I think it's really relevant, and there's a lot of reason for it to go through the hall. And I have a question for you, Mikhail Vasilovich. When are you, as a representative of the Party of the Regions, consistent: today, when you support a moratorium on the alienation of trade union property or the day before yesterday, when at a committee meeting you were opposed to a bill on temporary moratorium on the transfer of water and heat to a rental company? Explain to me, please, where is the logic and where are the sequences, and when are you sincere so that we, as your colleagues, can understand how to continue working with you? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u51	Thank you. Well, these are very different things, but I, like the faction of the Party of Regions, always come forward when we adopt these or other bills of public interest. And that bill that you were talking about is the adoption of that bill, it blocked the investment and coming in to reform housing and utilities. That is why the bill was not supported. And this bill, I reiterate, I hope that today the general opinion of all factions is whether it's a minority MP or a majority, but it's based on the adoption of this bill, because it's aimed at protecting the interests of the state, and it solves a very important problem -- property and state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u52	Volenec.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u53	Please give the floor to the National MP, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u54	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u55	Mikhail Vasilovich, you're an expert in privatization, and you know exactly how this was done. I've got two questions. First question. So I realized that we've had a break-up since 2005. And my experience at Zakarpatta, in other health complexes, suggests something else that you can go through and you'll be told in Zakarpat, that's what the former head of the Federation of Trades sold for nothing, that's for nothing -- his deputy, that's the mistress of this deputy. So tell me, we're acting fairly when we say that we've had two years of property theft, and before that, when you were head of the State Property Fund, we didn't steal it. Must have been a gift. So let's sort things out and put our accents in order. In all the lawlessness of privatization, and we will not be lying here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u56	Thank you for your attention. But neither I, nor Jaroslav Suhi, spoke, said that language has only been spoken since 2005. This problem has been reported to exist with beard and it has existed in the state since 1991, when there has been uncertainty about ownership of trade unions. And several times different governments, different parliaments, different funds. Heads. The heads of the State Property Fund took the legislative initiative to regulate the issue, but unfortunately the law was not adopted. And I hope that this issue will be settled today, and order will be given, and they say, without a deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u57	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u58	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Michael Vasilovich, indeed, these problems have not been born today and not in recent years, since 91. I emphasize that this is a question that concerns all areas, all regions. In Volina alone, it is estimated that the Federation of Trades will have more than 25 million dollars in previous management of the alien property. And there were lawsuits before the Federation of Trades. And there are these examples in other regions. Do you know that the court has determined that this alienation was unlawful? Are there such examples? Because there were a lot of lawsuits. And another question. There is little time left until the New Year. January-month is practical, and many sanatoriums, and you know how Ukraine works January-month. So it seems to me that the deadline for such an important matter — before February 1st — is short. We have to continue the term, not until February 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u59	I want to say that the courts are making different decisions, and today there may be one decision, and the court is said to be some small town to make a decision and, they say, to legitimize property rights and so on, exceeding its powers. But I repeat that there is no legislative decision. What happened today. To this day, the bill is very clear and accurate. It's like boxing. When the two boxers get together, the judge says, "Breck!" Today, the same situation: trade unions have taken possession of property that remains but is not theirs. We say "Brek!" to trade unions, let the property go. We'll take the law, we'll establish ownership. What you own, please take your arms, sell. What does not belong to itself is transferred to the Housing Fund and may it regulate the processes of the Housing Fund or in the area of management, in the area of privatization and so on. Therefore, until the time of legislative settlement during this period, I repeat, we are suspending everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u60	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss? It's the factions we're writing down. Are they willing to go beyond factions? Sign up. Yeah, let's take 20 minutes. Please, Corge, Timoshenko Street. The turkey is next. Who? Volinac, please pass on the word. Volenec.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u61	And, dear fellows, I would particularly like to draw your attention to the list of enterprises, cultural objects, sports and health. Here's a complete list, on a few pages in Yalta, on the fifth page of Odessa, which in 91st was illegally captured by the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions and continued to own this property for many years. This property was estimated at $4 billion. Today, the U.S. trade unions have declared for the past three years that only $200 million remains, or one billion dollars. The question is: Where did the property go for a bag of $17 billion? 17 billion dollars? This property is being illegally estranged today; it is being sold. What kind of property is this? These are hotels, these are sanatoriums, and every fourth sanatorium in Crimea was owned by trade unions. How did this property come about? This property was created by the transfer by the State in 1921 of the management of cultural and sports objects. Then, in the 56th year, the state took this property, but in the 1960s, at the request of the unions, the state handed it over again. And this property was financed from the state budget, new government - budgeted objects were built, through a masterful method of entrepreneurship, and transferred to the management of the unions. This property was also financed by social insurance costs, and we remember that in Soviet times simple workers were able to heal in health care, prevention, and so forth, to engage in sports palaces, swimming pools, and to improve their physical health. But today, a bunch of union officials are selling this property, and it was fair to say that property was sold back in the early 1990s, in the early 2000s, and it was done with Romanchuk's hands. But what is being done today! I want to tell you, I have a list of companies that the FPU is trying to sell as soon as possible -- 38 objects. And of the five hundred objects left today, only about a hundred were in the possession of the FPU. And for example, the best resorts, the best sanitariums in Yalta are sold in Odessa by five sanitariums for sale. It is predicted that in Desert Water Sanatorium “Yellow” – 10 hectares [10 ha] of land will be sold. And it's not just about buildings, it's about the cost of hundreds of land in Yalta and Odessa. And so what I'm saying is, instead of protecting the people of employment today, the unions are engaged in corruption, they're influenced by the power structures of the authorities, and they're not protecting people today, they're not doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Zurko gave the word to Stoyan Alexander. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Laws on the property of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions have already been reviewed on a number of occasions in this Hall. And as head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, I have managed to convince you that this property cannot be sold, it must be saved for the workers. And even when I wasn't the head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, when there was a law of Chernevski to sell property, and the money to pay back for savings, I also objected. And today I want to make it clear that I am still in charge of the property belonging to the workers of Ukraine. So today I fully support the bill that Jaroslav Suhi passed. You've seen the facts, you've heard the facts. In addition, it is impressive that the leadership of the Federation of Trade Unions has been given to the members of the Bureau. It's not on the side of the documents, it's the Federation's help. And this reference work says that they sold 34 objects for 8 million, 28 objects are still being prepared, 38 objects, said colleague Volintz, who had been prepared. The question is, who gave the leadership of the Federation of Workers on behalf of the workers, on behalf of all the unions, to sell the property of the trade unions? That's why I'm saying we really need to adopt this law, put a moratorium on it, and then see how we can continue to manage it. To be honest, the adoption of this law is of fundamental importance to me. And I fully support the creation of a commission to see how this property has been realized over the years. I want to say one phrase. In fact, the '90s were tough, nobody went to the sanatorium, but we kept the property. And what was passed on here could be confirmed by a colleague named Suškević, passed on to municipal property, to children, to veterans, to disabled people, and it worked. Today, I do not understand why this property is being sold on its own. And that's why I want to say, my dear colleagues, when I was accused of selling my property for millions, in 2005, our colleagues, I filed a lawsuit. During the year, there was a court case for the protection of honor and dignity. And on September 20, the court was completely satisfied. The lawsuit and the wrong thing my opponent did. To the honor of my opponent, he apologized, so I don't want to call him his last name. Whoever sells it, you could hear it from Dry. What's next? Of course, a moratorium doesn't mean that sanatoriums don't work. They're working. Moratorium means that it gives functionaries the right to sell out. There are two ways. Inventory, determine part of the state of the pro-professors, because the unions never created the property themselves. But it's a long way. It's been many years, you won't find that part. So there's a second way to create a commission that will form another form of governance, how social insurance funds are managed -- the government, the employers' federation, and all the unions that have national status. This body will be able to operate the property in a transparent manner. So I ask you to support this bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u64	Thank you. John Bondarczuk, a faction of socialists. To be prepared, Leapina's handing over to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u65	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, we are late in adopting this law, but it is better late than never. This bill was born on our committee, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, and there was no debate or discussion at the committee's meeting on the relevance or non-applicability of its adoption. I would like those who listen to us or watch us to understand and respond to some of the professional officials who are now raising their voices about what the Supreme Council is trying to do to limit the powers of the trade unions. It's not exactly about removing this property into a trade union, it's just a moratorium on alienating it. So it should stay at the disposal of the unions and be used by the unions for the benefit of the workers, for the benefit of the members of the unions, for the sake of millions, not for us to trade. Because today a situation has arisen when individual, yet small, groups of officials manage, sell, engage in other forms of property alienation, and themselves do not protect the rights, interests of workers, and ride themselves like cheese in butter. Therefore, this situation must be put to rest. Trade unions have to do what they need to do and not from time to time, not dance a grandmother with the leadership, there, with the government, with other institutions, but work to protect the interests of their members. And for that, they have to have property, because if we don't impose a moratorium, that property might be gone for a while. There is no doubt in the rightfulness of the question that any ministry has concluded. We need to, by imposing a moratorium, legislatively address the issue of succession in general, if necessary, create a commission, verify the correctness of the alienation of the already alienated property and so on. It's true that the theft didn't start a year or two ago, but if there's anything else we can do, we have to do it. The adoption of this law gives the legal basis and the Maintenance Fund to understand also the processes that are taking place there. And I'm going to say, in turn, we have an analogous bill that aims to normalize the current status of inter-community property, because there's been no collogists for a long time, and ownership is and this property is also going to depreciate. So we have prepared an appropriate bill and will soon bring it to your consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u66	Alexander Bondar, please. Get ready for Belarus Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u67	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". A question for me as an expert on matters of state property. It's so paradoxical to hear that we have property that hasn't been owned by the unions since 1991, it's been sold out, distributed out and done anything with it, despite the Fund's repeated attempts at holding. And to pass a law on the special status of this property and the holding of a moratorium. I, by the way, as the head of the fund, passed this law more than once to the Supreme Council, and I remember how the leaders of the trade unions at the time strongly denied these laws. I would like to remind you that the Government of Yehanurov commissioned Valentina Petrovni Seminyuk as early as 14.07.2006: “Please ensure that the property inventory that is in the actual possession of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions and, together with the law enforcement authorities, is carried out in 2006 and that appropriate measures are taken to recover state property of illegally estranged property.” There is a commission for all law enforcement agencies. Unfortunately, there are no representatives of the foundation today, and it would be interesting to hear what to do in return and how the inventory was carried out. Because I know that the State Property Fund wasn't allowed into the territory of enterprises owned by companies, they couldn't do anything about it, and that's going to happen. That is why I fully support the faction “Our Ukraine” of this law. But I would ask that in the last 3 articles of this law, where there is a trust fund, together with the participation of the people's deputies, there are representatives of other structures to verify, nevertheless, the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, which will have certain status to investigate all the facts of the alienation of this state property, beginning in 1991, and that there are legal grounds for its possible return to state property. I want to say that the property of the trade unions is not the only case in the state where public organizations manage state property as their own. The same is true of the Academy of Sciences, and similar practices were common in other organizations. By the way, the social organizations of creative organizations have taken property by law, by acts. We passed on every object, inventory, and civilized and legal. So we need to support this law, create a special commission of inquiry to investigate these facts, and then it will be clear in what year and what happened and which of the leaders of the trade unions was responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u68	Oleg Belarus, please follow him to Blackmore. Senchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u69	Sanchenko, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues! This issue can be discussed both emotionally and legally. I recall that in 1991 a law was passed under which all the property of all the allied social organizations, the Allied organizations, I stress, was declared property of the State of Ukraine. Much of the property that has somehow gone into the hands of the leaders of the Federation of Trade Unions is the property of the WCSPS, that is, according to the law, it is the property of the State and there is nothing to argue about. We need to identify this property and return it to the State. On this subject, there is a fresh conclusion from the Ministry of Justice of 14 July this year, which shows that it is clearly State property. Now, if we're talking about examples, I'm going to give the brightest example of the Livadian Palace in Crimea, which is a royal property known for having been held there in 45 years by the Livadian Peace Conference. Thus, until recently, this Livadian Palace was also considered to be the property of trade unions as part of the Livadia satanatorium. If we didn't insist on taking away this so-called trade union property in due course, then believe me, it could have been sold by now. And much of the property of this Libyan royal property is still considered to be trade union property. If you try to divide what trade unions consider to be their or the Federation of Trade Unions, the nature of this property is that half of these objects are objects that were built in the past century, usually in royal property or in the possession of nobility in Crimea and other regions of Ukraine. I mean, there were no trade unions in our country at the time. The second part of these facilities is probably smaller than those created by trade union contributions and by the economic activities of trade union enterprises. But here too, the question arises. Today we have no monopoly on the same trade union structure in the country, we have independent trade unions that have the same grounds. And largely speaking, if we're talking about what was created for contributions, why don't the members of the trade union have the right to the share of that property, but only the top? There is therefore a proposal to undertake a thorough analysis of the fact that, by the nature of its State and what was the property of the WCSP must be returned to the State, that what was created through contributions could be formed a union property fund to which all federations of trade unions, all federations of independent trade unions, which are now established and registered in the country, must be managed on an equal footing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u70	Casualty, please. You don't? Bogchuk, I'm sorry, Blackmoorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u71	Blackmore, Party of Regions, Crimea, Yalta. You know, distinguished deputies, I can tell you exactly that trade unions in our country exist right before they sell the last property. This will end the protection of workers' interests. In recent years there has been an unprecedented sale of sanatoriums. The Castrople boarding house is a unique place with the most beautiful cove sold out in part incomprehensible to whom, we will not call the owners of the new one. The Marat sanatorium was sold out in pieces on buildings. MP Sanchenko mentioned the Libya sanatorium. The Libya sanatorium is now in the process of preparing for privatization. At least the Livadian Palace was set aside from it. The Golden Beach sanatorium, which borders with the Lower Oreanda sanatorium, where we love to rest so much, has been sold. The Energy Sanatorium in Yalta is preparing to sell the Kirov sanatorium and many other facilities. And the trouble is not only that these objects are sold, but the trouble is that they're sold, say cheaply, it's not the word, they're sold literally for kopecks. In the same Marat sanatorium, 805 sq.m. Sold for 170,000. Greven - 30,000. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt you. Gaspre's one-room apartment costs so much. You can imagine yourself! But trade union property is not just a sanatorium. In its time, Yalta-Kurort included a number of stores, residential enterprises. It's all sold. The Black Seaman magazine opposite the Yaltin Horispolkom - 20,000. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt you. [[350 m]] Any one of us would have bought it. When asked: Why do you sell your property so cheap? They say this is the balance sheet. So who's selling? Whose property is this? There is no such in the property law, Alexander Nikolaevich Bondar will confirm the type of property – trade union property. There is collective property. Collective property of whom? Millions of people, several generations of workers who created it, or one and a half dozen leaders who are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u72	Yes, the Freedman also gave him his time. Please have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u73	Or one and a half dozen leaders of trade union health care companies who gather and decide in a narrow circle to sell it to whom? Not much. I know a man in Yalta. I don't want to say anything bad about him. He's the director of the Pound at Ilf and Petrov. He's moving from sanatorium to sanatorium. Prepares to sell, sells and goes to the next. Prepares to sell, sells and goes to the next. That is, it is a deliberate activity that deprives us of State property. We're saying that we've created millions of people, and this is essentially public property, that is, public property. Try to select at least one object from the union, right under the Supreme Council there will be a crowd and they will be shouting about how they protect the interests of the workers, although the workers have nothing to do with it. In addition, the new owners, who are being sold, are changing their staff almost entirely and local residents are being deprived of their jobs, and workers are being removed from all parts of Ukraine from Donetsk, Dnepropetrovsk, Western Ukraine. Whoever's buying is driving their own staff. Social tension is created. Question one. When will this be over?Oh, my God! Therefore, the bill proposed today by Deputy Suhai, I strongly support and urge everyone to vote in favour of him so that we can suspend the process for a while. Maybe we can solve the property fund issue so that it doesn't sell at the price of a one-room apartment. And perhaps we will correct the situation for the benefit of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on the Moratorium on the Seizure of Property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations. Bill number 2257. Please vote. [[11:23:12]] For 418 The law is passed. A draft of the National Demographic Register Act is under consideration. Registration number 2170. Gritzak Vasil Mikolaiovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u75	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, your opinion is proposed for consideration in the first reading of the Ukrainian National Demographic Register Bill. This bill, initiated and developed by a group of national deputies, who are representatives of all factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has support in the person of today’s interior minister Vasil Petrovic Tsushka, who, as a deputy, was one of his most active developers and initiators. The bill received support from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was reviewed and supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What will give our country and every citizen its adoption of the People’s Register Law? First of all, as it does not sound banal, the register is needed to make his life easier. The register, saddening and generalizing information, will minimize walking in different offices, allowing us to save both time and energy. In addition, the register will ensure that many important governmental tasks are met. Ukraine's population accounting system has been shaped by individual resources in the absence of a single legal framework, mechanisms for coordination and reconciliation of individual accounting systems among themselves. In addition, the special status of private, confidential information about a natural person that requires the use of exclusive means and methods of protection in the collection, storage, use, processing, and transmission of information is given insufficient attention in the operation of various ombudsmen. Such a state of affairs will not allow the Government of Ukraine to obtain the necessary data to study the demographic situation in society, which has a significant impact on socio-economic and other processes in the state, and, as an investigation, to exercise its constitutional powers in full. How many of us, how many of our countrymen were born, and how many have died? In view of the answers to the preceding questions, how many jobs will have to be created in Ukraine in five, 10 years? How many buildings, rural schools, hospitals, and so forth? How to protect and prevent the use of missing or stolen documents by criminals. These and many other questions will be answered by the population register. Let us not forget that Ukraine, as an independent, independent state, is still very young and has the right to take advantage of the experience of countries that, for example, are long ahead of it. And, almost, in all the developed countries of the world, national registering programs are already in place or are in the process of being introduced. The population registers, which are widely distributed in EU countries, are just the demographic register. Such registers were adopted, for example, Sweden - in 1749, Belgium - in 1847, the Netherlands - in 1850. And countries like Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, who were with us in one union, have already adopted such registers, not to mention all our neighbors. Some cranes have even given up general population censuses — Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands, and Sweden. Because information on the country's demographic status is directly obtained from national real-time registers. The creation of a register in Ukraine will allow for the introduction of new, protected documents in Ukraine that meet international requirements. Across the border, the main source of data for the population accounting system is the services responsible for population documentation and migration. In our country, the most important functions are those of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Today, the state already has a high-tech complex of enterprises that provide a complete cycle of centralized design, production, and issuance of new documents. Having created a new passport, which, on an equal footing, protects against counterfeiting and the number of innovative technologies that surpasses analogs in most parts of the world, our nation has demonstrated to the world its ability to modernize production to produce documents that require a very high level of protection. Ukraine is now ready to issue modern passports that fully meet the requirements of valid international standards and, above all, the requirements of ICAO International Civil Aviation Organization, whose members have become Ukraine on their way to Euro-integration. In fact, ICAO twice – in 2004, in 2006 it provided official positive expert conclusions on the compatibility of New Ukraine's passport with security and security requirements. The introduction of the National Demographic Register Act does not require additional budgetary costs. Registering is envisaged within existing budget costs for the creation of a state information system for the registration of individuals and their documentation, the first line of which is already running in all regions of Ukraine. The introduction of a national demographic register and a centralized order of design, production and issuance of secure documents is a guarantee of the inability to counterfeit them, the convenience of passing customs control, the reliability of the identification process of the person, the security of citizens' rights to unhindered movement both within and outside the territory of our State. The register is an effective tool for combating crime, illegal migration and terrorism. On the draft National Demographic Register Act, the draft law is a merging and unifying normative act that enables the application of information on demographic processes in society to improve the foundations of government. The bill provides a scientific basis for practical planning for Ukraine's development and predicting the consequences of socio-economic processes of future importance. At the same time, this normative act, aimed at ensuring the realization of the constitutional rights of the person to freedom of movement, the free choice of the city of residence in the country determines the system and order of the population, establishes the single form and order of the establishment and issuance of documents that confirm the nationality, certify the person or his or her special status. In our Parliament there is now a unique opportunity to adopt in the first reading a bill on the national demographic register and thus to prove to voters that national MPs, not in words, are in fact seeking world rules and values. And all the comments and suggestions made by Parliament, the expert board in the discussion, will be included in the second reading. I appeal to you with the support of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. And a lot. Yes, please give me 10 minutes. Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u78	Lupina's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u79	Dear colleague, please tell me that you have noticed that the bill usually contains information about strict reporting forms. Please tell me, is this even the subject of legal regulation?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u80	Well, you've been reading this inadvertently. Thank you for asking. You have read or not read this project carefully. In the first part, it's not about the documents, it's about the creation of the register, it's about the creation of the registers. And in the second part, because without the first part, the second part is impossible, without the documents that have to be recalculated, there can't be a case. We need to know what we're accounting for. We're targeting Ukrainian citizens today, and they call them natural persons who have the right to obtain an internal, foreign passport, and there are those who don't have those documents, and I want to become Ukrainian citizens, for example. And they have to go all the way to become citizens. So your question does not answer what the bill says.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u81	Nastyek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u82	Dear Vasil Mikolaiovich, I have two questions for you. First. Please tell me that you have had some experience in this area. What is the situation today with the counterfeiting of documents, and are national documents properly protected? And the second question. What is the experience of European countries in creating such national demographic registers?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u83	I'm answering your second question right away. In all of Europe’s countries, which are also bordering us, and a little bit farther along, such registers have long been created. In my report, I said that these registers have already been created, and in those countries that have recently been in one union with us -- Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, I'm not talking about Poland, Hungary or any other state. And many countries of the world no longer carry out population censuses, but they use a register that clearly works. And access to this data is limited to those people who are stipulated by law. The second question. In Ukraine today, between 5,000 and 12,000 documents, including passports, are falsified in about a year. On this basis, it means that dishonest people in Ukraine register businesses, become Ukrainian citizens, as was recently published in Moldova in the past year or in the past two years, almost 100,000 passports. And those people who got those passports for money there, that passport costs between 5 and 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u84	Stepan's bubble, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u85	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stepan bubbly, faction of socialists. You said that in some countries, even the census was rejected. I don't think we're going to be able to do that, because eventually the population census has special functions and tasks, and we're going to have to do that. But that's my question. Have you analyzed not only the advantages of making this calculation but also the dangers? Is it not possible that someone who has access to this data will make our country so that we have to give up some kind of election, because there are a lot of abuses that we have to do with using the exact data we need to make the elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u86	Well, first of all, we're not ready to replace the register with a census today. This is a question of a distant future for Ukraine. Secondly, I understand your concerns, but the registrar of this register is the Ministry of Internal Affairs. There's information protection, and people are responsible for it, and it's not just people, it's internal affairs. There is no danger. The danger is that there is no one in Ukraine today, whether it is foreign passports, or internal passports, or even driver’s licenses, all of this is gone. So there are different passports in Ukraine today: the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not reported issued passports abroad to date, and this is also a major problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u87	Visavian is passed on to Liapinius. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u88	Thank you. Despite your assessment of my question, you actually answered it and confirmed that the second half of the law, from the 22nd to the 40th article, was about describing strict reporting documents. Thank you. But I have a second question, you don't open your mouth yet, you'll still have time. The second question is the following, as recorded in the first part of the law, that entering data into the register is voluntary. But the second part of the law contains a list of required documents. Please tell me, how are you going to link these two things from a legal point of view: volunteering, filing and obtaining the required documents?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u89	Thank you very much. I think you'll join us on the second reading, and all the questions you have, and your wishes, your thoughts will be taken into account. As for mandatory documents, sorry, a Ukrainian citizen's passport is a mandatory document. Whether you want to or not, the Ukrainian state will issue it to its citizens. And the citizen who wants to go abroad also has the right to obtain a foreign passport. And this is also a binding document, and all of this is foreseen. If you want to go abroad, this is a mandatory document and you want it or not, we will issue such documents to our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u90	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u91	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. To be honest, I read your bill carefully and worked on it. But after you made your speech, I kind of lost my mind. So what will the register of individuals in Ukraine, citizens of Ukraine, or documents issued in Ukraine be accounted for? That's my first question. And the second question. Please tell me, how much personal data will be entered into the register for each individual? Because I hope that from the word “register”, which applies only to vessels that sail at sea, you will not apply either to humans or to documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u92	Thank you. That's the last question. What is the case? What is a register? The register is that one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, don't make him say what he wants. You asked questions, he answered. He doesn't say what kind of question you ask him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u94	According to this. Thank you again for asking. This law will be used by Ukrainian citizens, and then when the national information system of Ukraine is used, we will move on to the register of individuals in Ukraine. So it's all going to be, it's going to be just this law that's being passed. And it's not possible to enter a register without documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u95	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u96	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." I think there's even too many answers here. Because it is clear from such a little bit of a backlog that the reporter is talking about a police record and nothing else. Now there will be no government register, but there will be some intermediate register. This means that citizens receive nothing but police supervision, of course. And the executive power or anyone there gets full control. That's why I think. Or do I have one question then? In view of this, even without discussion, and as a result of your failure to answer similar questions, your project needs to be done without wasting time. Do you not have that desire?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u97	Thank you. That's your personal opinion. And the people's deputies will determine for themselves. And if you're reading that this law has some kind of police function, then I'll tell you that the grandmother at the market in Kiev or in Lviv or in Žitomir will not issue documents and will not be able to count the population of Ukraine. This should be done by specially authorized authorities. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is such a body today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u98	A widow, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u99	I'm very concerned about your bill. We have a tendency to keep a lot of records right now: register of natural persons, register of legal persons, register of Ukrainian voters, now you're offering a demographic register. So, and I've talked about this over and over and over and over and over and over again, we have a state police process going on. We want to have a record for every citizen not only from the day he was born but also until his death. And the data that the KGB used to require from us in Soviet times is nuts compared to what we kind of want to introduce in a democratic state right now. And we can, as it has already been pointed out, today at the Petrovka market, any data on the code one of us can buy for 20, for 30 bracelets depending on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. That's what the law is for. Today, there is no law in Ukraine that regulates accounting, a system of issuing documents. And I repeat in my speech that two offices today issue foreign passports without any accounting. And in a state called Moldova, there aren't as many Ukrainians as there have been forms issued in two years, and on the basis of bribes, passports were obtained, which are then the basis for obtaining citizenship in Ukraine. Here's the problem. So there is no law, as was not the case in Ukraine, in 15 years of independence, to date. And officials today determine who to publish, how to publish, and how to publish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u101	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 15 November 2006 considered Ukraine's National Deputys Tsushkom, Seminog, Onischuk and other Ukrainian National Deputies draft of the National Demographic Register Act. The purpose of the bill is to define the organisational and legal basis for establishing the functioning of the citizens' personal data database. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that since the draft Ukrainian National Demographic Registry Act has a general and draft law on the sole register of personal data of individuals subject to regulation, these two projects should be merged and further developed in line with the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 02.11.2006, supports the bill, subject to its completion, taking into account the comments and suggestions contained in the conclusions. The Health Committee, concluding a number of suggestions and comments, believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis for the first reading. It should also be noted that, when considering a bill at the Economic Policy Committee meeting, the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers involved in the discussion of the bill assured the committee that they would participate actively in its second reading. In view of the foregoing, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on national demographic register to be adopted on first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u103	Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. Yes, who wants to come out of factions? Recording. Please, who else from the deputies? Let's take 15 minutes to break to finish. Easy. Get ready for Carpuku. Who? Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u104	The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to point out that every bill has to be considered through two prisms: prism for what and who. And in this situation, we need to understand as representatives of the people what it is for and to whom it will benefit by serving, in fact, the people. There's been a lot of attention in the presentation by the president of this bill, because the copyright team here is too big, and so the details of how the form will look, what will be written there, I really agree that there is too much detail about the human being. But the main question is who's going to make these forms, what companies. This is very important because such forms will have to be produced in huge quantities. And actually, I think the main sponsors of this bill are behind the graduates of these forms, and they're going to publish them. This is why it is here that we need to build on our view of the bill. The ancient Latins still said "." - to whom it was convenient. The population, the people, the people, it's not comfortable, because it's an unnecessary detail of data that is not known or will be protected from the outside eye, unfortunately, because in our country, personal data is very often not stored and is not a secret to society. I'm sorry. So the concern for the population, the care for the electorate, the care for, say, the data that is being handled and the people are getting it. The company is not receiving any relevant information there. This is superficial, and the publication of the forms is deep. This needs to be answered clearly, because just like every bill that proposes to issue new passports, we need to look deeper and understand that new passports are huge amounts of money that will yield to those who will produce these passports. Thus, every nation rarely changes the passport system, and only the September 11 terrorist attacks in the United States forced the United States to reconsider its view of citizens. Because, in fact, American passports were too easily distributed. Passports are being billed in Ukraine. Who issues passports? Militia issues passports. Says the militia agency, it's called the “passport table”, a “passport table” called, well, we're not talking about diplomatic passports because they're being billed, they're being released. I don't think it can affect anything. And when we talk about ordinary passports, that's the same thing as talking about a license to issue weapons when police say that the first thing they're going to do is get guns, because "we, the militia, are going to issue them." That's what it sounds like. phraseology. So I would like to say to the author that under the circumstances, we simply cannot support this bill from the above facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u105	The Carpuch passes to Lapinius. Please. Prepare the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I could count all the flaws in this bill for a long time, but I'll just focus on three basic ones that I think are just completely conceptual and fundamental. I am not a human rights expert, so I turned to a competent source: the Ukrainian Helsinki Society. And I saw that this register with the amount of personal information that is supposed to be stored violates the fundamental human right -- the right to privacy, the right to personal information. And by the way, there are European conventions translated by the U.S. Helsinki Association, which say that in Europe it is forbidden to combine registers so as not to get a single register with so much personal information that actually allows a person to trace the person from the moment he was born to. all her life, any movement, movement, social security and everything. You are allowed to have individual registers, individual forms of personal data. And it's not a technological question at all, it's a fundamental question of human rights. Dear colleagues, we need to pay special attention to this. Second, why I believe that this Law is, in principle, not a Law. There are two major flaws. The first mistake is that the 22nd in the 40th article simply describes the technical, technical task of producing strict reporting forms. Which, by the way, and the scientific and expert department's observation, and the Ministo's observation, is just not the subject of legal regulation of the Law, that's the first. And secondly, the constitutional rights of the Cabinet of Ministers, respected colleagues, are being violated. This is especially what I want to pay attention to most people, because here, in this law, there is an attempt to give separate legal status to the departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, departments. What lies in the constitutional rights of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is solely by its decision, under the new Constitution, and composition, and departments, and generally the position of the relevant body, that is unacceptable. And the third, most of all, in my opinion, is the defect present today, on the one hand, about some voluntary introduction of information into this register, and on the other hand it is linked to the issue of absolutely binding documents. This is also contrary to human rights. And finally, I want to remind you that today, the laws and regulations of Ukraine have established that strict reporting forms -- state securities -- are printed exclusively by state-owned enterprises. There is no such thing in the Law, therefore, in the Law we bring this area into private hands, into private spheres. And I'm asking you to pay particular attention to socialists and communists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u107	Gennady Widow, please. After him is Mikola Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u108	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, in my question, in principle, my point of view, I believe that today in Ukraine, in the Ukrainian Parliament, there is a tendency to collect some data about Ukrainian citizens, to create a data bank. And that was particularly evident in the last chamber of the Supreme Council. I've kept track of all these bills somewhere. 12 bills were introduced to introduce a variety of registers in Ukraine. And today we are witnessing a continuation of such a case. I am concerned that this can lead to a significant extent, as said by my colleague Lapin, to a significant violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We want to give the state all private information about any citizen of our state. And so this data is going to be manipulated by all the organs that are going to have access. And anyone will have access to all of these in the state. That's the first question. The second, not the Baltics, not Sweden, not any other state. can't be a role model for us in this matter. Why? We are a multinational state, we have 22% of the population, we are representatives of national minorities. Finland, which the reporter cited as an example, is almost. Well, there's only one good thing to live in, well, except for a small group of Swedes who originally live there. We can't look at these countries. We have to be careful. We need to know about the spec. For example, we are very keenly concerned with the Russians ’ recognition of them as a nation, not a tribe. And there are very sharp discussions on this subject. Next, I would like to point out once again that any gathering of information, creating any new requirements for citizens to give information about themselves, is a violation of human rights. And last of all, you were talking about passports. And there was an offer to replace passports with cards. In the past, the committee has rejected this proposal. We can't do 10 years of Soviet passports, and we haven't changed all of them today. Therefore, we should be very, very careful about such suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u109	Mikola Oneschuk, please. After him, Yushchenko Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u110	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. In general, the bill that is being discussed today should be introduced by the government of the country. Since the creation of national registers of Ukrainian citizens, I think, is primarily a government task, because it is a country with 48 million citizens, not imagining what is this country, what is the state of labour migration, what is the state of demographic processes, the aging of a nation, which is generally taking place in social security, pension and so on. You can't run a country like that. And so it's no coincidence in this case that people's deputies are taking the initiative today in order of the day's session, and it seems to me that we have to move away from some kind of insecurities and emotions, and pragmatically refer to the purpose of consideration and approval in the first reading of the bill. I would like to point out that the problem of registration is naturally so, you know, delicate. Because it's really about the personal data of the citizens, about the re-establishment of the register database. And there's another way in which, at the right legal and legislative level, we don't really have the right legal procedures for access to registering, setting up a circle of persons, responsible for violating the rules on the use of these data. If we hide, excuse me, heads in the sand and leave everything as it is today, is the information, for example, from your hospital ambulance card protected today? But no, you know that for 3 bracelets or 5 bracelets you can go to any clinic and you get that information. So this is about finding ways and possibilities at the legislative level to create an appropriate register and to predict legal instruments legally established by unmarked instructions, respected colleagues, and established by law to protect such a register. Another problem. The national register should be a matrix, you know, to which subregisters should be connected and created. When a bill on the creation of a voter register is being considered in Parliament today, and the authors of this legislative initiative will tell you, and we cannot create a voter register, because we do not have a register of Ukrainian citizens, that is, those who have the right to vote. When you want to create a register of those who need, for example, state support, it's very difficult to create, because there's no general register to take this information from. In other words, in the first reading, the bill should be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u111	Yes, please, Gnatenko passes the word to Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u112	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, well, Kseniya Liapina of the faction has rightly pointed out that this register requires, or registers, excessive data. And where will they concentrate? Note, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I have great respect for this ministry, and I was once associated with it at work, but agree that data will be provided for each one of us. There seems to be a shortage of fingerprints. Everything else in there will be about a man. What's that for? Clearly, only for police supervision. Now the voter register. In fact, we've all seen this register in the election. He is, indeed, absolutely necessary. Where can you get information for him? Well, you don't need fingerprints for this register, by the way. And I don't have to tell you who Grandma was, and I'm gonna call it that. The basis of this register can be those voter lists that were in the 2004 additional elections, which were clarified in 2006 and can be the basis. So this work was better funded. Now, it's already been pointed out, and it's only right that there's going to be money on the forms. It was also pointed out that in Kiev, on the very good market in Petrovka, you can buy any information you want right now. But respected colleagues, where they can buy it, can also sell it. So it's still a sales license for each of us, they're gonna trade us, they're gonna trade us, they're gonna trade us. Very good law, of course. Then, of course, this register, like the 12 unnecessary laws that Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko spoke of, are not free. A structure is created, money is spent, and where benefits are not available to people. That is, this law provides for what should not be done, namely, police records, the making of commercial structures, the trading of information, and the handling of any useful issue. Now, sometimes rhetorical questions arise, the President of Ukraine has suggested that the minimum pension and minimum wage should be brought into line with the subsistence minimum. They say where to take the money, and where to take it, don't make unnecessary, unnecessary, stupid, sorry, registers, and use this money for really useful things, to raise the same minimum wage pension. And I hope, my fellow dignitaries, that even in the Supreme Council, there is enough responsibility and there is not enough lobbying pressure to put pressure on this socially dangerous law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on national demographic register. Registration number 2170. [[12:03:00]] For 255 Decision taken. Break to 12:30 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u114	I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. We're continuing the meeting. Adam Ivanovich promised to consider quickly the establishment of a temporary commission on the Kiev Council on issues in the Kiev Council. Sass, on the rostrum, please. Who, Pashinsky? Please. Two minutes, literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u115	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, fellow believers! All moments witnessed on December 7, not just us, but also hundreds of thousands of television viewers about the atrocities that were taking place in Kievrad, namely, that unknown people, covered in badges by the deputies of the district councils, Kyivrada, broke into the session hall and brutally, cynically beat the deputies of Kyivrada. It can be said that this is a question of solely law enforcement. But what does it warn? First. That's the principle of how they got there. I mean, the hall was shut down and people unknown came in. Moreover, dozens of television broadcasters were filmed and interviewed, and the car they were driving was taken off. But today, no one has been detained, no one has been questioned, no one has given us reason to say that it is not just some hooligan exodus of unknown people, but a systematic provocation by the Kiev authorities. Sadly, such facts are not unique. I would like to point out that the last three sessions of Kievrada have been held in sharp discussions about tariffs that have been unduly increased three and a half times, and that's what all the political forces have been talking about, which is what the President has been talking about. I pay attention to hundreds of areas of land that are culinary, without public discussion, already allocated or planned for the appointment of close businessmen to the mayor of Kiev, Leonidas Mikhailovich Cherniwiecki. I'm paying attention to the godfather bank, which was still in utility for a month, and now it's not clear what offshore companies own them. Systematic violations of existing legislation are taking place, ignoring not only the thought of the Chinese but also the deputies of Kyivrada, the deputies of the Supreme Council. I understand that we have different political views in this room. Various political passions, but still the city of Kiev is the capital of our state, it is the face of our nation in front of the world. I appeal to all of you to support this decision to set up a commission of inquiry into the December 7th incident in Kievrad and the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Kievrada.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u116	Thank you. Wait, I'm calling the deputies. What was abnormal about the situation in the Kiev City Council was seen by all the people on the television screens. What we need to find out is the point of this matter, we need to help us figure out where it's not, perhaps, the way that some factions go completely and completely from the Supreme Council to put order there, because it's not their job, they've chosen city council deputies -- citizens of Kiev. The ones they've chosen, they're working. They chose the mayor, how he works, and he works. [[That's what people wanted.]] That's why it's the Kidding business. But the point, the point, is to help. The functions of the Supreme Council allow us to create a commission and find out what happened. The draft decree, which will now be considered by you by voting, provides for the representation of various political factions. I'd like to vote to create a commission, let it work. Technical? That's it. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor, Alexander Alexandrovich. The "Our Ukraine" faction, we support the formation of the commission, but we would ask, this is the agreed position of the faction, instead of Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, to anticipate participation in the membership of the Committee of Poživnov, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u118	Okay. He's not on another commission? Okay. Are you okay with that? Then I put the draft ruling to the vote. Please. Here comes the vote. [[12:37:54]] For 405 Thank you. I propose to vote the same now in favour of another ruling. That's what this is about. You know. I'll do the preamble first. You know that the draft Budget Act, a more faithful Budget Act adopted by the Supreme Council, has been vetoed by the President. We've prepared, our committee of profile, with the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers, has prepared documents on this subject, which you have on your desk. I propose to act in a clear order as we step out of the Rules. First, we'll look at these. This comparative table, the President's remarks, and if we accept these amendments partially accounted for in 300 votes, that means, we overtake the President's veto, he signs and the budget works with the amendments that will be considered today. If we do not have enough votes, this is not considered a decision. Even if there are 226 votes. But we can vote in favour of a committee with the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers, other interested people and the next week, when we look at these changes that they have made, we can even simply get a majority vote, and this is already going to be the adoption of the budget that goes to the President's signature. Therefore, it is vital that we consider the matter in substance today, include it in the order of the day, consider it, and make appropriate decisions. On this point, it is anticipated that the President will make a report from Arsen Petrovich Yacenuk, his deputy director of the Administration, from our committee – Maceinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. So I'm asking you to put this in order. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:40:15.]] For 239. Decision taken. Thus, the word for this account is given to Yatsenyuk Arseny Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich! The President of Ukraine has decided to make proposals to the Ukrainian Act, to the draft Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act, and accordingly not to sign this law until the Supreme Council has considered the President's proposal. Let me brief you on the historical course of events that took place during the budgetary process. The President, from the very first day of the creation of the National Budget Act, took an extremely active part in its development. Yes, the President's first proposal, dated 11 November of this year, was sent to the Supreme Council and to the Cabinet of Ministers, which expressed basic positions on the state's financial document. It should be noted that in the process of working, the Heads of State with the Government and Parliament have introduced a number of rights to the relevant law. Yes, at the request of the President, an entire bloc was removed, which involved amending the legislation on taxation, and on the day of the promise of the State Budget Act, the President signed amendments to the Tax Law, which he also vetoed, but which was supported by the entire Ukrainian Parliament. The other one. A privatisation list has been removed from this law and it has also been voted on separately by parliamentarians and is now under consideration by the President of Ukraine. Third, the budget was able to minimize what is called manual budget management, although it was not completely avoided. Fourth, the budget has been able to remove rules relating to free economic zones and other incomprehensible tax incentives, which are poorly regulated and put into separate legislation. In other words, a number of positive developments have been achieved in the budget process. However, several key requirements of the President, which are primarily of a social nature, were not included in the Act. Let me start with one of the basic standards of social standards. They were introduced as early as September 2004 is the minimum subsistence minimum for working citizens who should be equal to the minimum pension. According to the State Budget project, the minimum living income of 1 January 2007 will be 380 dollars. I wanted to point out that according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, which dates back to 19.11.2007, it is clear that in October of this year, the subsistence minimum was 391 bracelets, in other words 11 bracelets more than that of January 1. According to estimates, the minimum cost of living in early 2006 will be at least 406 dollars. Thus, the minimum pension and accordingly all other payments, which, and the calculation that relates to the minimum subsistence minimum size, will not be counted at 26 dollars. Therefore, the President’s first proposal refers to an increase for the least socially protected sections of the population of the corresponding payments. This is due to the fact that, above all, the inflationary processes in the state have accelerated somewhat and have intensified. And on the average, the country's tariffs have risen by 2.5 times, that is, 250 percent, not 7 percent, as predicted, to increase its living minimum. The president's second proposal on minimum wage. I would like to point out that the rate of growth in the minimum wage is 3.5 times lower than in 2005. The statistics are as follows: 2005 – 40% growth rate, 2006 – 20% growth rate, 2007 – 12.5% growth rate. Thus, given the projected level of inflation, not the one in the draft budget, but the one today made up of international experts, we can talk about the actual zero increase in the minimum wage. The third question is not about a socially fair approach to limiting pensions for all categories of Ukrainian citizens. A perfectly right decision has been taken by the government and is supported by Parliament to limit the maximum level of pensions that Ukrainian citizens receive. Sadly, however, the restriction did not apply to the national deputies of Ukraine. On the basis of the Constitution's social justice standards for all types of population, the President of Ukraine proposes to limit the maximum amount of pensions for all categories of citizens, including members of the national parliament. The President's next proposal is to pay the added value tax on imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of oil and petroleum products, and more specifically oil. The point is that, at the request of the President, his proposal was supported by the government and the import of gas is now taxed by general tax on the added value and the issuance of the corresponding tax bill is not provided for by law. The president proposes to distribute the same standard for oil imports. Oil is a highly liquefied product, and it should be noted that the total revenue of the State budget in cash from the payment for oil imports in 2006 amounted to more than four billion dollars. This is also an additional resource for the State budget. Thus, it is suggested that oil be included as an object that can only be cashed at the customs office. And the President's final proposal, which deals with equalizing the imbalance in the salaries of military personnel. Here, the head of state proposes to increase the funding of the Ministry of Defence by 1 billion, thus equalizing the imbalances in the remuneration of the younger army of the Ministry of Defence. Now for the resource position. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in order to implement all the President's proposals, a resource of up to 3 billion dollars is required. The President of Ukraine proposes to make appropriate changes to the State Budget Act and today, at a meeting at 17:00, clear parameters will also be introduced on how to redistribute resources. I would like to emphasize, redistribute, not increase the government budget deficit, but redistribute and implement the President’s proposal, thus providing the least socially protected population, namely, pensioners, disabled persons, families with children and students with adequate financial resources. As far as the order of the work is concerned. So let me make a proposal, which is what we're going to do next. The Head of State expressed the need for a constructive approach to the State Budget. In order not to contradict the various figures, in the various formulas and calculations for changes to the State budget, there is a proposal within the Budget Committee to hold conciliatory meetings and, within the shortest period, to come up with a constructive joint proposal that will be supported by the President, Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of this, Mr. Alexander Alexandrovich, there is a request in the relevant decree, which is now published, a separate point, if possible, for the purpose of an immediate meeting at the level of the Committee of the Supreme Council, the Government and the President's authorized persons to carry out final calculations and to submit a constructive proposal to Parliament, taking into account all the requirements set out in the letter of the President of Ukraine. For these proposals to be constructive, we simply need to approach the calculations objectively and thus place a dot in budget history in the shortest period of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u120	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Any questions? Please sign in. Yeah, 10 minutes. Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I'm not such an experienced MP, I'm just working on a second term here, and it's interesting that we're creating some kind of interesting precedent. And the national deputies, and you've gathered us together on Friday, and you're saying, you know, we can't meet, the Supreme Council Committee, the President's authorized representatives and the government, maybe you live somewhere else in the Supreme Council, so we can meet, talk and ask you to meet and work on the budget for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. I don't understand this logic and the text of the document. Well, that's your job. You have to work every day and look for ways to improve the budget so that the social parameters that everyone's talking about here are implemented. So I don't understand the logic of this document and this decision, which provides for a more active meeting of all branches of government in order to deliver on electoral or other social promises in the near future. I mean, what's the logic, explain it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u122	Mr. Mikola Vasilovich, I would like to inform you that the document you have under consideration has nothing to do with the President of Ukraine and the Secretary of the President. This is a document submitted by the Supreme Council. And what I would also like to inform you about is that, at the end of yesterday, there was a budget committee, unfortunately, only 17 people, not all of them, and unfortunately, all of the President's constructive proposals, virtually everyone, were rejected by the budget committee. So once again we turn not to politicize the budget process, but to translate it exclusively into an economic plane and then not to translate responsibility from one to the other, we turn again, let's meet and show the calculations.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u123	Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u124	I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u125	Please, Alexander Pecklusenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u126	Alexander Pecklusenko, the "Region" faction. It seems to me that once again you and I are pushing for a political situation that needs to be dealt with very calmly. Your proposal for a meeting on the scale of the Presidential Administration, the Budget Committee, Minfin is constructive and is encouraging. There's only a small question, why is there no time left for this proposal, I personally sounded to Mr. Schlapak a month ago, why are you only now coming to this proposal? What have you deliberately politicized this issue? And the second, as important as the budget, is estimated at 7 billion. If Minfin says 10 billion, and you say 3 billion, you know, it's not a mistake, it's already a system where it's going.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u127	Let me inform you about the calculations. In order for there to be no speculation on calculation, we have a clear formula that shows what kind of budgetary resource is needed. And when we say it's 3 billion, it means 3 billion, if the Ministry of Finance has other calculations, let's show them and put them on the table, if there are other calculations on the Budget Committee, similarly. I would like to point out that I would like to return to yesterday’s meeting of the Committee on Budgets. Instead of creating the working group that was proposed, once again, for the sake of agreement of all positions, this proposal was rejected yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u128	Yuri Zubko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u129	Dear Mr. Arsen! First, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, we don't have such a ministry, there's the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, that's the first. Second, the budget committee, more than ever, worked on the budget openly. Practically, with the Ministry of Finance, all committee meetings were held with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and Mr. Schlapak. And yesterday he was, and before that, and if 10 people came from the President, 10 people could work. That there was no part of the MPs, well, that's the problem with MPs. Those MPs who are today on the basis of the adoption of the budget and those proposals, taking into account the President's proposals, they were taken into account yesterday on this committee, and so there are no questions today about.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u130	The question is that in three letters from the President of Ukraine, which he sent to the Supreme Council and to the Cabinet of Ministers, there was one key thesis that applied to the social standards of the population. In fact, this thesis is in all the pre-election programs of all the political parties that are in this room. And when we say 26 dollars is not added, let's sit down, count, find a corresponding redistribution of resources and again, I repeat, put a dot on the budget issue. What about the calculation terms? There may be different terms listed there by the Ministry of Finance or by us, but in five days it can be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u131	Ivan Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u132	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I am a member of the Socialist Party of Ukraine since 25 October 91, i.e. I am one of the contributors to the assembly and the author of the bill approved yesterday to bring the minimum wage to the working and living level. I am delighted that the President has become a socialist in fact, although he is a patron of the People's Union of Ukraine. And the question is three parts. First. When he became a socialist and why he did not promise the State Budget Act for 2006, although there was a gap between the minimum wage and the subsistence level of 121 bracelets and now 115. It's bad, but there was more. The other one. You're an experienced economist, although young, do you believe what you're talking about when you call a figure of 40, 20, 12 percent, you know the inertiality of the economy. And the third. Why do you push the President into radicals when you're young, aggressive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u133	We can start with the third. I'm not aggressive. And what I want to remind you about the figures is that the minimum cost of living in 2005 was 17 percent if we're just taking absolute numbers. And what's in the 2007 budget is 7 percent, 10 percent is missing. Therefore, there was no need to promise the State Budget Act of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u134	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u135	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arsenius Petrovich, in fact, surprised me a little bit by the information you're speaking with here. You were saying that unfortunately, you only met yesterday. Nothing like that. I am a member of the budget committee, we have met with the representative of the President on several occasions and have discussed these issues. But let's just say it's on your conscience as you assess the situation. And the people's deputies. The quorum of the committee yesterday was and there were deputies from the orange bloc who simply did not register, and without them there was a quorum without their registration. That's why everything was fine yesterday. And there is no need to be doubted, all the more so, to mislead the people who hear us. But I'm surprised you were the Minister of Economics. Today you're working at the President's Apparatus. And here I am reading the President's proposal: "...on the previous calculations, the size of the minimum of living and so on." How can this be a preliminary calculation? And the whole point of your speech today is what you thought you did, and your representative said that yes, we're not sure that's right, because we don't have a machine, and so on. And you're offering to sit down together and do this work. What the President had in mind at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u136	I would like to point out that in order to calculate the subsistence minimum for disabled citizens, there is an appropriate decision by the Cabinet of Ministers and the accounting methodology. So to this Order of the Cabinet of Ministers is a large supplement that provides a complete set of products that are the basis for the calculation of the minimum of living. There are, for example, these odous things, so when we talk about reality or unrealisticity, I would like to point out that article 46 of the Constitution clearly determines that the minimum subsistence minimum, the minimum pension should be equal. So when we count in this basket that only one pair of boots can buy for six years, tell us how real these calculations are? However, we even took these calculations times the inflation rate that goes up by the end of this year and we went out by 406 dollars. Once again, it's not our October month calculations, it's the actual government calculations that put the number 391 in October already at the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u137	Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u138	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! You and I, as economists, are well aware that the budget is a predictive law. Really? And no one knows how the income situation will be tomorrow. Maybe everything will happen in an economy with separate businesses and so on. And that's probably why we did a separate position in the End positions that could be reviewed in the first quarter. But I've heard it a couple of times in your speech: let's give the money. That's probably the basic point that we're going to split the money, and then the coalition and the government have the responsibility, as we've shared the money. It's probably a little incorrect. After all, the coalition is responsible for these things. And I'd like to read one more piece of paper that the decision you're making is based on the lowest prices for food and non-food products with the minimum consumer quality of the number of registered products. The relevant information is given monthly and so on. There is a document that seems to be incorrect today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u139	Let me go back to this draft decision, which also went up at the government meeting. And just the day before yesterday at the government meeting, we suggested that the government accept this document and make other calculations, if there are any. But other than 406 dollars, there are no calculations. So 26 dollars is not added to the pension. There's another calculation, maybe it's 20 bracelets, maybe it's 18 bracelets, let's sit down and count. What is relevant to the redistribution of the resource. Dear Mr. Baraniowski! I would like to point out that the President is in his veto so that the President is not then accused of pointing out where the article should be taken and where the resource should be redistributed, he did not write these things. However, the President has clear constructive proposals that can be considered by the government and parliament in order to invent an appropriate resource upon redistribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u140	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. McKeenko Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, revered Mikola Yanovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the government! The Supreme Council's first adoption of the State Budget Act was not signed, but was returned by the President with his proposals for reconsideration. In doing so, the re-examination procedure of the State Budget Act with the proposals of the President of Ukraine is not regulated either by the Ukrainian Budget Code or by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Therefore, it is necessary to reject formalities, political coloring, and do everything possible to ensure that the State budget takes effect on time for the following year. What does the President's proposals cost the country's economy? Their financial value is estimated at about 10 billion at the Ministry of Finance. That's right. The President's proposals to increase the expenditure of the State budget are essentially balanced by the budget, since they do not contain specific proposals and corresponding calculations on the sources of their coverage. This was also highlighted by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. And now, specifically, by every proposal of the President. The first is to increase the living minimum and minimum wage. In the case of proposals for an increase from 1 January 2007 to a minimum of 26.6 dollars against the 2007 government budget, it will be necessary to look for about seven billion dollars. In addition to this, the increase in the population’s monetary income in relation to an increase in the subsistence minimum will increase consumer demand and negatively affect consumer price indexes. So, in the future, not an economically sound increase in living minimum and minimum wage will actually not increase the population’s monetary income, but rather will overestimate it because of inflation. At the same time, it should be noted that, following the initiative of the government, following the President's proposals, the law adopted already included the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: during the first quarter of 2007 to monitor the level of subsistence minimum approved by the law, its real size and to make appropriate proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2007. In addition, the Committee on Budgetary Questions further proposes that the End of Law be supplemented by the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to direct, in an orderly manner, the privatization of state property beyond the scope of increasing the living minimum and minimum wage approved by this law. Second: to increase the cost of providing military personnel to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations in the amount of 1.1 billion dollars. In the 2007 State Budget, spending on the maintenance and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is projected at over eight billion dollars, 17 percent more than the previous year. Of these, the greatest attention is paid to the social costs and expenses of improving the country’s security. The total cost of the Ministry of Defence plus pensions and housing for 2007 amounts to 15 billion, or nearly three percent, of GDP. In addition, spending on 500 million dollars was increased when the State Budget project was finalized for second reading, as proposed by the President of Ukraine for the Ministry of Defence. Under the initiative of the government, according to the President's proposals, the adopted law provides for the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers: to analyse, within three months, the state of the financial security of the military, the chief and the military, and the decision to establish the sole principles for the formation of the salaries of civil servants and the financial security of the military, the primary, and the military warehouse to phase out possible imbalances in the amount of money. With regard to the training of ships and units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to participate in Operation Active Efforts, such measures, according to the Ministry of Finance, can be provided within the framework of a global resource defined by the Ministry of Defence for 2007 under the relevant budgetary programmes. The issue is strictly technical and depends solely on the current activities of the Ministry of Defence and the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we can take with you in this case. Third, regarding the exclusion of article 57 of the Law concerning the granting of medium-term interest-free loans to local budgets on terms of return. The calculation of the amount of income taken into account in the determination of inter-budget transfers is carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code, based on the only formula for all areas. Norms regarding the granting of medium-term interest-free loans to local budgets have been introduced into the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 for the proposal of a budget committee. But it was supported by an association of cities and communities in Ukraine. So the position of the committee is to leave the 2007 State Budget Act on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u142	Yeah, give me a chance to finish, he's talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u143	With regard to the prohibition on the import of oil into the customs territory of Ukraine. I inform you that article 71, paragraph 51, of the Law banning the issuance of a bill, when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of gas, was in line with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. It should be noted that it would not have been excluded in a logical way if all the tax rules were removed under a separate Law on his part. With regard to the President's proposals: to expand the list of oil and petroleum products, it should be noted that during 2005-2006 oil imports did not apply to the payment of VAT by payers. This is explained by the additional cost of abating bills, taking into account significant tax amounts. That is, there is no reason to take these positions into account. With regard to the limitation of the maximum pension, the committee supported the President's proposal to extend the maximum pension limit to all categories of the population, including national MPs. In addition, with a view to harmonising the rules of the relevant laws, the Committee proposes to supplement article 71, paragraph 60, with regard to the suspension of part of article 20 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, concerning the definition of pensions by the National MP without limiting their marginal size. In summary, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on December 14th, reviewed the President's proposals for the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act, prepared a comparative table, which is given to you by your colleagues. Please support the decision of the Budget Committee on the adoption of the State Budget Act 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please, five minutes, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u145	Dear Mr. MacKeenko, I thought you should be the head of the budget committee to know the budget code, the requirements and the procedure for adopting the budget. After the legislative act, including the budget, is imposed by the President of the veto, there is one procedure for overcoming the veto. Now the budget committee is making some kind of innovation in both the budget process and the legislative process in general: re-establishing the President's signing law. I do not know on the basis of what articles of the Rules and on what articles of the Budget Code are based on your proposal and your decision. So, dear colleagues, I think there's a veto, let's work within this veto. You have 300 votes -- please pass the veto, you don't have 300, you just have to play football the day before the new budget year -- it's just a waste of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u146	Thank you for asking, Alexander Valentinovich. Indeed, in my statement, I stressed that the Ukrainian State Budget Act was not signed for the first time by the Supreme Council, but was returned by the President with his proposals for reconsideration. The procedure for considering the State Budget Act with the proposals of the President of Ukraine is not regulated either by the Budget Code or by the Supreme Council Rules. Chapter 26, Governing Council Rules, page 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u147	Please, Bogchuk Vasil. I'll answer that question later.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u148	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear reporter! As I was working on the budget, I realized that for the first time in years of independence, we had formed the ideology of the budget, in which we moved from the ideology of food to the ideology of development. A development that should lay the foundation for future social costs. And I don't understand the President's proposal today. Please tell me, if we don't take the budget to New Year's, if we move this process to February-March, is it going to be social support, or is it going to be a social impact and other unprotected articles in this budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u149	Thank you for asking, dear colleague Bogchuk. Let's be honest. The difficult political situation in Ukraine, you see it all, and in this room, on television, the media. And unfortunately, the budget fell into the situation he was in. And unfortunately, there are so many people who want to make a name for themselves in this budget, to use it in political divisions. Our mission to the Supreme Council is to get the 2007 budget out of the political plane and get our people to meet the New Year with a new budget in 2007. It's about a colleague of Jacinyuk's. Arsenius Petrovich, I think that, given the President's situation in which he's found himself, you have to do everything you can to calm this situation down. It is very easy to make a name for yourself on every channel every day. And we have to do the opposite, take the budget and find the right decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u150	Please. We agreed, let's take all of these valuations back to later. A specific document that relates to people’s needs, figures, and the like is considered. So let's just throw away those emotional estimates. What kind of question does he ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u151	I'd like to give you a word to Pecklacenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u152	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u153	Hell, the "Regions" faction. Vladimir Vladimirović, I believe you, as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, simply need to place all the points in place and answer the charges of yesterday's meeting of the Committee. First of all, it wasn't 17, it was 19. Secondly, you must name the factions of political forces that did not participate in the budget review that wanted to disrupt the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u154	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, there really was a meeting yesterday of the Committee on Budgets. On the list we have 32, there were 19, there were 17. That is why there were three national deputies from the “Our Ukraine” faction. They were present, took part in a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, asked questions, answered them, shared them, but they did not sign up at their own request. By the way, there is no such thing in the committee law that every national MP has to sign up. The decision was legitimate, it was adopted, and I think this page is upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u155	Have a seat, please. Thank you. Mikola Janović, your opinion. Please, just a little. Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u156	To be honest, I listened to Alexander Alexandrovich. Take it easy. Alexander Alexandrovich, why did you give me your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u157	In connection with this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u158	Then I'm. I'm just looking, Makeenko's on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u159	I know. Yes. Before we look at the President's oral amendments, the President's clarification, or the President's remarks, the Cabinet of Ministers will have Mikola Janović with motive, and then you will return to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u160	Okay. Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. I would like to highlight a few points first. First, the minimum subsistence rates, the Government had given them very serious attention, and in terms of the increase in the subsistence minimum between 2005 and 2006, the increase was $26. 50 kopecks. I ask you to listen carefully to the numbers. The increase in the subsistence minimum between 2006-2007 is for retirees, for incapacitated persons, of $28. 75 kopecks. Thus, absolute growth rates correspond to inflation rates and are not lower than the growth rate between 2005 and 2006. Now I want to say, more than that, in 2005, which is now under illusion, it was a year of very high social achievements. Thus, the subsistence minimum in 2005 was $332. and never changed during the year. That is, the increase in subsistence was zero, and the inflation was 13 per cent. That is to say, the absolute decline in the rate of growth of the subsistence minimum was 13 per cent minutes, and no one was then concerned by it, either the President or the Government or the majority in Parliament. Now in 2006, the subsistence minimum has changed, follow closely the amount of $350. at the beginning of the year, from 1 July 359 г., from 1 October to the end of the year, 366 g. The growth rate was only 8 per cent, the inflation was 8.7 per cent, so the growth rate was negative minus 0.7 per cent. And it didn't bother anyone at the time, not our deeply respected President, nor our greatness back then. We were in opposition, and I stress what is now being proposed in the draft budget, which is supposed to be anti-social. 380 G's. from 1 January to 1 April 387, 387 of 1 July, from 1 October 395. Thus, the growth rate would be 8.1 per cent at an average inflation rate of 7.5 per cent. So we have plus 0.6 per cent positive growth in living minimum for non-working people. It's a dry percentage, and it's a dry truth. Everything else is called speculation. Now the second one. There is a view that there are supposed to be projects that need to be abandoned and that the economy needs to be developed by increasing the consumption of cephire by our pensioners. I'm asking myself a simple question: how long does it take for our pensioners to drink more to build a bridge across the Dnieper River? The absolutely absurd idea of turning the development budget into a budget for the meal into a collapse of our economy. Therefore, the government will never be able to accept a change in the ideology of the budget. The 2007 budget is a social budget, a development budget. Therefore, I propose to support the proposal of the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Makeenka, please, on the rostrum. From the faction, let's exchange briefly for a minute. From factions motivated by voting. And then McKeenko will go to the rostrum and the president's repairs will go. Please log in from the faction. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u162	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions”, Zaporozhye. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! On the other hand, it seems to me that the conduct of our President in terms of the budget is not the guarantor of the Constitution, not the father of the nation, but the conduct of the ordinary opposition policy, someone dissatisfied with something and wants to put someone in the position of abuse of the power of the President. I don't understand how the former mayor's deputy is going to get local budgets out of this trouble. We're going to go back to 0.75 rates in hospitals and 0.50 rates in schools, because then there's just no cost of heating, electricity, primitive weed. And the second. Well, listen, we're with you, MPs, and as many of us as we can get for this pension, including Vladimir Mikhailovich. He's got a long way to retire, and if he yells like that, he's gonna tear his own voice down. It's not a problem in parliamentary pensions, but there are 22 articles of the Constitution, a decision of the Constitutional Court. Let's get out of this position together.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u163	Okay. I ask you to focus on the budget issue, not to give political evaluations right now, it doesn't give anyone anything. Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u164	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues! Of course, since we have not improved our law, there is no limit to how much it can be improved, and we will never write it out in such a way that it will satisfy all the parties even the different parties that are in this room. Of course, we all have the President's wish to have this document as best as possible. And as far as I can tell, it's already been done. What's more, we've written down in this law the government's mandate that if we're somewhere wrong, and we can all be wrong, both in the President's Secretariat and in the budget committee, and in the government that we're going to review all the indicators in the first quarter, don't let God make a mistake, and we'll correct the error if it happens. What's more, yesterday we proposed to the budget committee to create an even more appropriate fund if there was a proposal made to Parliament today to further intimidate ourselves. And the last. After all, we must enter the new year quietly, and our citizens will know that there will be a budget, because there will also be district sessions and district sessions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u165	I'll make it up to you. He said: “We should vote for him, ” he said. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u166	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Obviously, we are discussing a few problems today. First. What is the state of power today, and what does the President do, what does the government do, what does the anti-crisis coalition do, and what some of us are set up to do. It's different. We are with you today as witnesses that yes, indeed, the time has come when decisions must be made by very responsible and radical measures to be taken in order in the state. The third relative to the proposals. I propose, Alexander Alexandrovich, and I ask all colleagues in the Anti-Crist Coalition to support, let's take the time from each faction to address the situation that has arisen on the example of the proposals made by the President. Secondly, after discussing all of this, once again on factions to analyze what proposals the budget committee made, because we only got them now and, ultimately, then on Tuesday to vote to make this decision final, so let's say, confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u167	Peter Mikolaiovich, I'll explain again. We will be able to do this, but today, according to the Rules, we have to go through certain procedures -- we have to vote on it. If there are no 300 votes, then we have the right to vote on the transfer of the vote to Tuesday, and then the procedure you're proposing can be fully implemented. Kirilenko instead of Arjevitin. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u168	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, the respectable Vice Prime Minister for the years 2005-2006 is telling the truth, but in places. Speaking of 2005, he forgets that, for the first time, we raised a minimum pension to a minimum of living for the unemployed and found huge resources, and for years we raised the minimum wage four times, which led to an increase in the average wage. And the same situation was in 2006. So the dry truth is not what the government says, it's about how complex it is to look at the situation. Now the situation seems to be that of President Yushchenk’s six well - founded proposals, five parts of the budget committee have been rejected. And the Supreme Council is going to accept as articles the very rules on low minimum wage and low subsistence minimum, which are repeatedly denied by the President, including even before the first reading. So I propose not to do that, to overcome the veto, and if not, then to step out of the President's proposal, to go meet him and accept him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u169	Thank you. The word is Turkish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to remind Mr. Azarov that the government of Tymoshenko has raised the subsistence minimum for 60 bracelets and should say objective things. This is the first time. The second is about voting for this project. You know, there was the experience of the government of Timoshenko when 375 national deputies voted for the budget, including the opposition that Mr. Azarov spoke about. Another question is that this budget was balanced and social, and then there were no problems in either opposition or in the ruling majority. With regard to today's vote. Alexandre Alexandrovich, you're an experienced MP. There is a procedure for overcoming the veto. Please follow this procedure. You don't have to invent anything. You've taken over the veto. The president's proposal has failed. No suggestions have been made. Send them to the committee for further work. From the mechanism of working with the law. The other one, Alexandre Alexandrovich, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I am addressing you: there is no other choice. So there are three choices. Adam Ivanovich will show you how to do so. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u171	Well, why would I need a hint from Adam Ivanovich if you're giving me a hint? And you were the head of the Budget Committee, and you know that if there's a rejection of the project, then the veto is voting right away, and there's no deviation -- there's a note, but they're not being drawn up properly, because the form should be specific -- I'm telling Deputy Kirilenko, the formulation of income and expenditure positions, and it's just an observation. It's unacceptable, it's not appropriate. That is why such a decision has been prepared. It's a decision, it's a decision. Please. He has a word, and Vladimir Volodymyrovich is invited to the rostrum. We're going after the president's amendments. The proposal goes, according to the Rules, I'm going again. Peter Mikolayovich, I'll explain: Tuesday you'll be able to do all this on Tuesday. The President's first amendment is partially taken into account. It is regulated by the End Position. Who to support the president's amendment, the president's amendment, who to support, put to the vote. President's first amendment. Take the vote off, I'll explain again. Calm down! Calm down! Calm down, I'm telling you, take your seats. I explain that if the President's amendment votes, that means that these figures that he's given, we predict in the context. If that's all right. I'll do it again. Well, why is everyone showing how to hold a meeting? Calm down, please. Listen carefully, make no noise, and you will understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, calm down. You've all called for regulations. We are following the Rules, the 130th article, which says that if the President proposes to reject the bill, the President's motion for rejection is first put to the vote. If she didn't get the right number of votes, the proposal to overcome the veto is made, that's when the President proposes to reject the Law. In this case, the President does not propose a rejection of the Law, and he makes some amendments to the Law. In that case, every amendment of the President shall be voted on. If the president's amendment didn't get 226 votes, it's out of the question, and so every amendment. After the President's amendments have not been taken into account, it takes 300 votes to adopt the Law. Then the Law was passed. If we take all the President's amendments into account, we need 226 votes, then the Law is passed. If we don't pick up without taking into account at least one amendment from the President, three hundred votes, in voting on the Law as a whole, we have the right to direct it to work. Here's the whole procedure of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u173	Adam Ivanovich, I've said this all over again, so I did it again. The sequence will be like this. Listen carefully. I'm putting the President's proposal, his amendment to the vote. If she doesn't get the amount she needs, then I'm voting on the conclusion of the committee that's scheduled. Well, you don't like it, it's in the Rules. Or there's a previous edition that's going to go into processing. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I'm not telling you what procedure to deal with matters of privatization, because I know less than you do. And I've been doing the Rules for 17 years, and I know them no worse. Please don't scream from the place. Please. I'm the President's first amendment. Calm down, smile at each other and at yourself, as it were. Don't worry. The President's amendment is a vote. Please, first. [[13:32:10]] For 165 165 votes. Now, wait. The second vote is amended, please. I'll give it to you. [[13:32:46]] For-161 Simonenko insists on his motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u174	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, after the President's first amendment, the faction of Communists did not vote because this is exactly what the financing of the Nazi program is supposed to be. We are in favour of the maintenance and support of the Ukrainian army, but we are against the decision in the referendum by the people of Ukraine of the programme of accession or non-introduction of Ukraine to NATO. Funding for money that needs to be directed towards minimum wage, support for families of military officers, and much more. This is the first time. Secondly, I'm in relation to the faction here not defined by the second amendment, Alexander Aleksandrovich, so I ask that you first react to why we don't vote and give us a word so that the citizens know why the Communist faction or the other faction doesn't vote. We will not vote in favour of the Nazi programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u175	The third amendment of the President shall be put to the vote. In support of the president's amendment. Please. [[13:34:11]] For 201 There's not enough voices. Four. By factions, please publish. Region Party – 0, “Blok Timoshenko” – 114, “Our Ukraine” – 71, socialists – 0, Communists – 16, non-factional – 0. The President's fourth amendment is the vote. Please. [[13:34:48]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The fifth amendment is a vote, please. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u176	The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u177	And the committee supports it. Come on, I'm begging you to support me. There's a vote coming. [[13:35:15]] For 427 The sixth amendment, which is partially counted, is the vote. Sixth repair. [[13:35:38]] For-191 There's not enough voices. The factions, please. “Regions” – 0, “Clock Tymoshenko” – 111, “Our Ukraine” – 66, “SPU” – 0, Communists – 14, “non-fractional” – 0. Seventh amendment. It's counted by the committee. I'll put her to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u178	The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u179	Hold on, please. [[13:36:32]] For 422 It's for viewers or radio audiences, it's canceling the MP advantage so there's no speculation about it. The eighth amendment, which is also considered by the committee, is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u180	The committee supports. [[13:37:03]] For 376
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u181	Now I'm explaining. If we now take 300 votes in favour of these amendments, we believe that the budget is accepted. If we don't, then we'll put it back on the vote and put it to work. I'm betting on voting in general, taking these remarks into account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u182	The committee supports. For. [[13:37:34]] For 248
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u183	I don't have enough votes. I need 300 votes. The factions, please. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 2, socialists – 31, communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. I'm voting on a proposal of this kind. May I have your attention, please? To amend the law on, well, this law on the State Budget for Refining in accordance with article 130, paragraph 8, of the Supreme Council Rules. Second, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues to involve the final drafting of the law, the authorized representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine and to submit to the Supreme Council on 19 December this year. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u184	The committee's asking for support. For. [[13:38:35]] For 252
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u185	The factions, please. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 8, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Socialists – 31, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. I take it from the results of the vote that two factions don't want to work on the budget at all? How? So I came to the conclusion on the basis of this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, calm down, put your hands down, you won't help with your hands. Have a seat, please. We have adopted a bill on the State Budget to be drafted with a decision to bring the committee together with the President's secretariat, with the Cabinet of Ministers and with those who wish to participate with the deputies, please, in particular, I appeal to the members of the budget committee, so that there is not enough quorum. On the 19th, we're going to look at it, and we're going to take our verdict. Once again, everything has been adopted according to the rules of the Rules. We'll talk for an hour. There is no such procedure, let them tell you that there is no such procedure. We've got it. So, like with the budget, for the first time in the Supreme Council, they were looking at the veto because we didn't have one, so we have another precedent. Please see article 221. This article was used by our colleague, Nadusha, who is dissatisfied with the answer to his parliamentary request and asks that this answer be discussed. But in order to discuss this answer, he'll give his arguments, I'll read out the answer he has received, and we'll need 226 votes in order to take a decision to discuss this answer at the next session when it's time for questions and announcements. The point is before that. And then we'll move on to the “Variance”. The bottom line is: Attorney-General Medvedzko replied to the Chief of the Supreme Council that the parliamentary request of a group of Ukrainian national deputies had been announced at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 22, 2006 on the legality of granting society. [[Food and Others]] a land plot in the park area. The cities of Cremenczuka under the construction of a commercial entertainment complex, logging and other issues have been considered. An answer is given to the Ukrainian national deputy. Please, 3 minutes, Nadosha. What a dissatisfaction, we will make a decision and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u187	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. I'd like to ask you to pay a little attention to yourself to consider carefully that request and that answer that came to me from the Attorney General's Office. This does not apply to any of my ambitions and this does not even apply to the problems of the city of Cremenczuk. This is largely the case with each of us present in this room today. It concerns our parliamentary activity, and even more, our incentive and our ability to control the activities of the authorities on the ground. The only thing we can do that, apart from the legislation, is directly the parliamentary requests, the questions that the official should answer in the law's term. To answer, not at all, about the treasury in the “city of the mouth, but in Kiev, uncle,” but to answer the questions that we ask in these questions. Unfortunately, most of us get answers that aren't specific, they get answers in general about everything that can be written, but not what we're asking in fact. So even in that request that I wrote about the destruction of the entire Kremencucci Park complex, I was given the prosecution's response that the construction had been halted, even though the whole city knew that the construction was continuing, the foundations were being laid down, the structures were already being constructed. The prosecutor's office in this case is powerless. Like you and me, national deputies, we are really powerless before the civil servants, we really can't control this process, and our questions don't scare anyone anymore, and they don't call for an answer. Today, we can answer any questions we may have, and all of us face them. I ask you, very carefully to respond and support this, my request to you that we consider, firstly, this barren prosecutor who had all the rights but did not stop the construction. And in his example, challenge all other officials who do not work in the territory to those who do not perform their duties both in front of the electorate and in front of those who have appointed them to high office. So I would like to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support my request to challenge these officials to the Supreme Council and to consider this issue at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u188	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! I remind you again, be careful, this is the first time we've ever met you in this situation. For a discussion of the Scriptures, see article 221. I'm going to repeat briefly its basic positions. We have already done part of it that the MP who is dissatisfied, the chairman has read out the answer, that the MP has read out the answer, the chairman has given the opportunity to speak, and now we have to make a decision that, when this is foreseen in the 25th article, we have, if I am not mistaken, the third Friday of the month, when we are discussing, we should give this opportunity to discuss the answer and the answer. If we don't get 226 votes, the MP can make his wish by collecting 90 signatures. So here you understand the situation. I am voting on my colleague's proposal to discuss the answer to his parliamentary request in accordance with article 25 and article 221 of the Rules. Please vote. [[13:45:47.]] For-182 Not supported. But again, I recommend to our colleagues the use of 221 articles, the collection of 90 signatures, and then it's automatically included in the agenda. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 116, Our Ukraine – 60, Socialists – 0, Communists – 5, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues! Let's take 30 minutes for "different". Please sign up. Yes, please, School Andrew. He's behind him, Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u189	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Radio and Television Watchers! The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to use the parliamentary rostrum to announce the creation of an interfractional parliamentary union “Contrabandi Stop!” “We, the national deputies of Ukraine, have examined the state of the fight against illegal movement of goods across the State border, with a view to producing ways and means to solve the problem of smuggling through improved legislation, to analyse the reasons for the proliferation of smuggling activities, to create and improve legal conditions for preventing and detecting smuggling, to remove economic premeditations for smuggling activities, to cooperate with relevant national authorities of Ukraine and with foreign authorities on the development of measures and proposals to combat smuggling, and therefore to achieve the above-mentioned objective, to form an inter-fractional union. This interfractional union includes MPs, I stress, of all the factions present here in Parliament. This association will contribute to the submission of draft laws to the Supreme Council of Ukraine aimed at improving legislation in the field of import regulation and anti-trafficking, support the origin of such bills, including those initiated by other entities of the legislative initiative, monitor the effectiveness of anti-trafficking measures and implement them in the internal market of illegally imported goods, and monitor the implementation of legislation aimed at the implementation of State policies to combat illegal movement of goods through the State border, help inform Ukrainian citizens about anti-trafficking measures. The Interfractional Union “Contrabandi-Stop!” operates on the principles of self-government, open to the integration of other people's deputies and set up to cooperate with the leadership of the Supreme Council, the parliamentary factions and the relevant committees of the Supreme Council, the Secretariat of the President and the Secretariat of the Government, other authorities of the Government of Ukraine, public organizations and associations. Presenting the interests of the interfractional MP: “Contrabandi stop!” is entrusted to fellow heads, national deputies of Ukraine – Ribakov Igor Aleksandrovitch and Landik Volodymyr Ivanovich and deputy, national deputy Andrija Škil. I want to point out that you have come here, the representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Party of Regions, our Ukraine, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party, that is, all the factions are represented, and I don't need to focus here on the relevance of the problem, and it also exists in Ukraine. Unfortunately, smuggling does not simply exist, it causes serious, serious stress on the Ukrainian economy and contributes to it. That the Ukrainian economy is not developing. And this causes serious damage to Ukraine’s national security, so this is not a matter of one day. I believe that such an interfaith union will be fruitful in implementing ideals that are common to all the factions represented in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u190	Step Bulba, please. Behind him is Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u191	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. For days, the National Security and Defence Committee unanimously declared the situation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces unsatisfying, more so that it poses a threat to national security. The presentation of the committee was emphasized. The fact that the Ukrainian Armed Forces do not reduce the level of crime, corruption, significant costs associated with the looting of military property, the transfer of land and military towns is still being carried out with numerous violations of Ukraine’s laws. In June 2005, the Ministry of Defence officially waived its rights, and the Poltava City Council, by the decision of the session on January 6, 2005 adopted 55.6 hectares of land released after the liquidation of the artillery base of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the historic centre of Poltava. But the 2006 elections took place, the authorities in Poltava changed, the deputy minister changed, and the new deputy minister, Mr. Boyko, by letter of 24 July this year, is proposing to the Defence Minister to hand over the territory of the military town to the Poltava community for the second time. True, it is not just that, but it is the purpose of putting an investor into construction. The investor will be identified by the territorial community of the city according to valid legislation, says the letter. Mr. Gricenko puts up a visa “yes” but after a month and a half in a letter to the responsible Polish city chief, Mr. Matkowski, reports: “The Ministry of Defence has agreed to terminate the right to use the land with further construction in the established legal order of society with limited liability for the Fifth Element. ” Why so? And because on August 30, 2006, under the agreement, the Minister of Defense committed himself to passing on to this “Fifth Element” on the basis of an act of more than 55 hectares of Poltavian land. For his part, the “Five Element ” agreed to count slightly more than seven million bracelets of the Mini-Defense. There is a clear violation of article 95 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which states that land users are not only entitled to sell but also to transfer land to others. The city's leadership was going to be able to stop this legal mess, but instead with obvious operationality on the same day, namely on September 12 at the time of receiving a letter from the Ministry of Defence at the mission, the people agreed with Mr. Grizzenko and decided to hand over the land to the “Fifth Wheel”. Excuse me, Fifth Element. I know there's been a parliamentary inquiry about this. We hope that law enforcement will have enough perseverance and principle to give them credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u192	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, is to prepare Simonenko for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u193	Dear citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of my faction friends, I want to draw the attention of the citizens of Ukraine to the fact that the nationalist political line of the President of Ukraine is deeply destructive, anti-democratic and threatens to further increase the confrontation in our society. Yushchenko and his environment, feeling a clear threat to their political future, losing the appropriate support of Ukrainian citizens, focused their activities on the organization of orange sabotage. The goal is to preserve the monopoly on government. By means of political blackmail and intimidation, the President and his team impose on society the idea of reviewing the fundamental positions of political reform, the aim of which is to restore dictatorial powers similar to those of the Kumovian times. To this end, the President is putting pressure on the Constitutional Court to recognize changes in the main law as unconstitutional. In violation of current legislation, Yushchenko is forming a so - called constitutional commission for the drafting of a new constitution. By hypocritically considering European democracy, rights and freedoms, the President is actually establishing totalitarianism in Ukraine, strengthening the criminal oligarchy regime, oppressing the media with nationalistic, anti-communist and anti-Russian sentiments. During the sixth year of the closure of the work of the Nuremberg Tribunal, where Fascism was condemned, Yushchenko required the Supreme Council to rehabilitate the Benderian manuals and Hitlerites from the UN UPA and to give to those who shot Soviet citizens in the Baba Spring the savage punitive operations against the civilians of Ukraine, Belarus, Poland and Slovakia the status of national-liberal heroes. The cynical games of Yushchenka around the tragic side of the country's history of hunger 32-33 years in connection with the adoption of the law on so-called genocide can lead to interethnic, inter-national and inter-State opposition. The President's de facto refusal and his environment to build relations with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the anti-crisis coalition and its established government on the basis of current legislation and the principle of consistent political responsibility for Ukraine's fate is deeply destructive. The ongoing wars due to the powers that Yushchenko has against Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has had a very negative impact on Ukraine's international authority. We call on all the left and left-wing political forces, the entire progressive society of Ukraine, all the honest people of Ukraine to unite into a single anti - Fascist front to defend democracy and the integrity of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u194	Please, Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction. After him, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u195	Respectable voters, respected colleagues. We have just considered amending the President to the budget. This problem is of concern to many, and I did not suggest that this issue be discussed by chance and that a decision be taken after the discussion. Why? I expected that the President, as the smartest economist in the country, would show the shortcomings in organizing the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, to show sources that we have not considered or deliberately hidden from our voters. Perhaps they are not in the interests of the national economy. Unfortunately, I didn't see or hear it. Once again, I would like to invite the President publicly to become President of Ukraine and of the Ukrainian people and to save every penny in the budget for the Ukrainian people. It's easier to share a little caftan in the face of robbery and theft. What do we, the Communist faction, propose? First of all, efforts must be made to support the real economy. The real economy will work, the sources of budgeting will be stable. What is it? I propose that, first of all, the refinancing rate of the National Bank of Ukraine be set at 3.5 per cent, 8 per cent for commercial banks. Thus, we will provide real negotiable means for the development of the domestic producer. Secondly, to remove all the President's “loving friends” from the wells of gas and oil and all the money not in the pocket of “loving friends” to support the nationalist various screwdrivers, but in the government pocket. Thirdly, to return all State property transferred by “any friends” to the management of their brothers, to return to the Cabinet of Ministers and all the money from the use of this part of public property to the State budget. Fourth, putting order on the border and putting a real screen on counterpropaganda will give us at least 10 billion bracelets a year. Furthermore, the use of the State monopoly on vodka and tobacco is also billions of bracelets. Further, I would like to invite the three Presidents, the Prime Minister and the Head of the National Bank to meet in private to discuss the use of the National Bank of Ukraine reserve fund. These are also concrete practical measures that will enable a real economy. Next. I propose, in terms of protecting our constituents, that we repay them with wages. And ask business entities that have more than a billion salaries to our voters. Further, I would suggest that today I entrust the supervisory authorities, including the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the Security Service, with checking the objectivity and justification of wage setting. Not to say that the minimum they can pay, but to establish the objectively correct, and to verify the objectivity and validity of the pricing of food, necessities and medicines. Only then will we maintain order in the State when each official is responsible for the performance of his duties to our people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u196	Thank you. Chubarov's reaction, please. After him, Nepalus passed the word to Arjevetin, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u197	Dear voters, honourable colleagues, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes concerning the responsibility for the arbitrary capture of the land. Thus, if the law is signed by the President in that version, as approved, now those citizens of Ukraine who act under the jurisdiction of this law can be punished for being deprived of their will for up to three years. Although in the final version, unlike the one approved in the first reading, much in the softened form of punishment, I would like to stress again from this rostrum that this law will work against those who, in the established law, have been unable to obtain land for housing for years. I want to explain in the Crimean situation. Thousands and thousands of Crimean Tatars who finally returned to their land for years could not obtain at least 10 hundred land for furniture, especially in the cities where they were born or their parents were born. They could not win because they were cynically refused and continued to be refused. At the same time, thousands of acres of land, primarily on the South Bank of Crimea, are illegally distributed among those who have either large resources or have direct access to power. The Crimean Prosecutor's Office is now trying to challenge an illegal decision, I repeat, for those who voted in favour of this law, not for capture, but for an illegal decision, but for the local councils. We have hundreds of hectares that are now being protested by the prosecutor's office in Alupka, Alushta, Yalta. This is a matter of a well - known boarding house or territory; today it is simply illegal, but again illegal, but according to local councils. For example, if you want a popular anti-tuberculosis sanatorium called Bobov, literally by day, a session of the city council of Alupka split, issued acts of 6 out of 11 hectares of land in this sanatorium. The same is true of other Crimean lodgers. For example, the City Council of Alushta refused to release Crimean Tatars to the community, so listen to me, only, 7 or 8 hundred of the land where the cathedral mosque was in Alushta, which was demolished. But this land was given to Borispol Airport, which, you see, lacks land in Crimea to expand its domain. I mean, honestly, dear friends, if we're not all of us now. We cannot find ways to solve the land problem; this law will not stop people who return to their land, not through the land, then let us return home, property, all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u198	Thank you. Stanislaw Arzeviten, please follow him, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u199	A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" regarding the budgetary process. Early in the week, the President of Ukraine returned to the Ukrainian Parliament the State Budget Act for the following year. The reason for the return was the failure of the government of Yanukovich to take into account the social component that has led to the deterioration of the already established standard of living and the failure to count a number of important economic components, the incomprehensible mechanism of redistribution of funds to local budgets, the opaque financial policy of import operations. This list of budget errors is far from complete, which is what Victor Yushchenko pointed out at yesterday’s meeting with the Ukrainian media. As we know, the Cabinet of Ministers made a strong statement on the President's return to the Supreme Council of the draft budget, which unfortunately expressed his own unwillingness and inability to compromise and understand each other. The “National Union of Our Ukraine” faction believes that the government's statement regarding the budgetary process is political, unbalanced and testifies to the Government's unwillingness to act in a stately manner. It seems that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine deliberately oppresses the political situation and spreads false information about the motives for the return of Victor Yashchenk, President of Ukraine, to the State Budget 2007 Act. The President of Ukraine took advantage of his constitutional right and made proposals, not because of political considerations, but because the main financial document of the countries provided significant estimates. The negative budget contains provisions that actually reduce the level of real minimum wages and pensions, and thus the standard of living of virtually every citizen, lead to insufficient funding of the Armed Forces, and reinforce the opaque schemes of the manual distribution of public investments. Only non-professional government actions can explain the claim that there are no additional social funds to protect the underprivileged and retired. An unbiased analysis proves that by abandoning the creation of a non-state pension fund, some of the state-owned sector investments that are planned to be distributed manually, optimizing the financing of airport reconstruction, and so on, we will be able to raise the living minimum by 26 dollars. This, in turn, will lead to increased pensions, salaries for teachers and doctors, for all budget workers, and will encourage private business owners to increase the income of citizens. An honest lie is the government’s claim that there is not enough time to make changes to the budget. “Our Ukraine” emphasises enough, one week under the conditions of concerted and intensive work to take into account the President’s comments and the calculation of the basic budget figures. We call on the anti-crisis coalition to move political debates to economic proportions, to reject party and narrow corporate ambitions and, taking into account the comments made by the head of state, without wasting time, to finalize the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2007 State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u200	Which we'll do by Tuesday. Grigorovich Lilia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u201	Lilia Grigorovich. “Our Ukraine”. Dear voters, distinguished fellow MPs, honourable chairman. The situation with regard to the President's amendments in the 2007 revised budget makes it necessary to say the following. Article 22 of the Constitution states that it is impossible to adopt legislative acts that make things worse for today's people. By adopting the 2007 budget, the proposed anti-crisis coalition, we are deteriorating the position of 12 million pensioners who will be under 26 in January. Thus, the President of Ukraine acted according to his presidential powers and according to article 22 of the Constitution. When the communists were yet communists and the Socialists were socialists, they were very subtle and they were quick to respond to any social deterioration. Today in this room they voted silently, lowering their heads, against accepting the president’s amendments. So I say that we don't have left forces in Ukraine today, we don't have advocates for the interests of the workers. Where do you get the money? But it's very simple. Dear friends! 2.4 billion, and just as much for pensioners, you can take from these 32.4 billion planned for innovative development programs. Development must be made by investments, non-budgetary costs. Take 2.4 billion and give it to the pensioners, and what's not enough will be added to the privatisation that can be successful in the first quarter. Period. And that's why all the games around the president's amendments are nothing more than a desire not to protect their people. I make this very clear by relying on the opinions of many experts who have abrogated the budget process in Ukraine. It's expensive, give it to the people. And now in different, literally, different ways. Dear voters! I despise politicians who love to beat moral authorities or politicians by playing on their children. And out of this rostrum there were swindles about the king. This is usually done by people who are wicked. Noting the thesis: the parents responsible for the children still want to share one piece of information on the "Real Policy" website, which states, literally, the following. And on the night of December 5, from the Air Force Airport of the first Presidential stop, there was a charter plane in the United States that had a young man named Yanukovic and several accompanying people on board. I'm not going to pass on the whole situation. I'm only going to say one thing. Noting the thesis: parents are children, I want to say, if this is a politician, a member of parliament, I'm asking the faction that this MP belongs to either to comment on this situation or to deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u202	Please, Petrenko gave the helmet his word. After him, Karpuk passed it on to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u203	Dmitry Šlemko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear compatriots, during the days of the Supreme Council, did not vote in favour of amendments to the Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in the Country. During these days, I received dozens of appeals from the voters of the land who rightly ask why this happened. I'll remind you that this law has a lot of experience: he's over 11 years old. Parliament's past call has been supportive of new changes that have increased the number of settlements that have received mountain status. So this was a surprise to the veto of the President of Ukraine, who, by the way, began his professional biography right in one of the mountain villages of Atonement. His main argument, namely, that the introduction of such regulations would require a substantial increase in the state budget’s expenditure, could not be accepted. Let me take, for example, Ivano-Frankowishte, which I represent in the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. More than 60 settlements with more than 50,000 inhabitants will be added after the changes to the law to the mountainous population. Taking into account all the benefits that mountain dwellers will receive under this law, they will amount to more than 50 million dollars a year. That's the price of a question for one area. This is because hundreds of millions of dollars will be allocated to individual eastern areas from the 2007 budget for different needs. Clearly, the problem is not solved. Because we all know that through the budget, costs are allocated in principle: for one student, for one student, for one patient, without taking into account the specificities of a particular region with its geographical, natural and climatic, demographic conditions, which have a profound impact on both work and human life. Believe me, they're too complicated in the mountains. True, everyone who comes to the mountains for rest enjoys first of all nature, clean air, mountain hospitality, but less knows that there is the most unemployment, because there is no industrial enterprise, there is no land enough, there is poverty of many, the highest child mortality, there is a number of young people going abroad to work, there is a weak supply of schools, and there are professional hospitals and there are young people. Therefore, to help these people, God himself commanded them. This is well known by the President, it is very well known by the faction “Our Ukraine”, for which the Gorans voted in friendly terms both in the presidential and parliamentary elections. Thus, the results of the vote in favor of the Law have proved to be incomprehensible. Of the 142 votes of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, 104 were friendly, the Communists were pleasantly surprised, adding 17 more votes to the general balance, and four votes of the Party of Regions and three socialists were expected. However, the 12 votes of “Our Ukraine” came as a surprise, and the Law was not voted in favour of the majority of the deputies — the outcasts of the Carpathians who are in this faction. I know that in the mountains of good memory, they will never forget it, even though they will accept it with joy. They have such a good soul, unlike the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u204	What's more, let the snow appear to be somewhere to go. Please, Bondar and Kirilenko gave the word Tanjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u205	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". On December 6, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Subjects under Privatization in 2007. During the drafting and direct review of the bill, the faction “Our Ukraine” has repeatedly stressed its imperfections and the flaws in the means of implementing the process of privatization of public objects. The adoption of the bill will not result in a state budget of 10 billion dollars, as projected by the 2007 State Budget Project. The “Our Ukraine” faction states that the only faithful legislative provision for the privatization process in Ukraine is the adoption of a national privatization programme. The faction “Our Ukraine” refers to President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine with a proposal to veto the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights Objects under Privatisation in 2007 in relation to the following circumstances: First, the list of items contained in Appendix 3, in fact, prohibits the privatization of all public property objects not included in this list, or provokes substantial subpoenas throughout Ukraine. The mandatory sale of stock packages of more than 25%, including land plots, in fact prohibits such privatization and allows for the sale of only less than 25% of the packages, including the Skretelek facilities and the Odessa port factory. This suggests that the anti-crisis coalition, under the pressure of the Socialists, agreed with the President's proposals for the sale of the Shrineman and the Odessa Portal Plant, distorted them and led them to absurdity. The bill also provides an explanation of how public property should be sold. The government and the Maintenance Fund cannot answer that question today. Instead, the State Privatization Programme is not being submitted for consideration by Parliament; no changes to legislation have been made. The legislative initiatives initiated by representatives of our faction to ensure transparency in the privatization process are not discussed at all in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Together with what has become known to members of our faction, which has been submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the draft privatization and legislative changes programme does not contain provisions to ensure transparency in the conduct of privatization in Ukraine. Instead, the program contains additional qualifications that will determine the buyer long before the start of the competition. The faction "Our Ukraine" emphasizes that the introduction of such a law creates new corruption schemes and will be the beginning of a redistribution not only of public property but also of those already sold. As a result, we're going to have a sharp decline in investment attractiveness, an outflow of capital from Ukraine, and a general deterioration in the state's economic situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u206	Les Tanjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u207	Les Tanjuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. On June 5, 2006, the Ukrainian Security Service banned an MP from the State Duma of Russia, Constantine Zatulin. This decision was not spontaneous, since while Ukrainian independence existed, Zatulin’s activities were not once negatively perceived by patriotic Ukrainian citizens but also by the higher government. This is the third ban on Russian political entry into Ukraine. Ten years ago, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine recognized Zavalina as a non-grat person. The decision of the SBU notes that Zadlina’s activities, I quote, “create the prerequisites for illegal actions related to encroachment on Ukraine’s territorial integrity and the inflammation of international hostility. Even so, in modern - day Ukrainian politics, there may be amazing things that border on political clowns. On the day of the Ukrainian Army, Mikola Azarov, who is still the first Vice-Prime Minister, underlines the Ukrainian government, in the presence of Russian Ambassador Viktor Blackomirdin, serves Russian politicians in Ukraine's Zaphobina with the pathetic title “For the Revival of Ukraine”. The festive record in the details showed Russian snakes, especially by pointing out that the award-winning one sincerely thanked the President and the Prime Minister for the award, and it is clear that millions of people in both Ukraine and Russia have been given the miracle that it is the power in Ukraine that gives the non-grates of the Order. And no one explains to people that it is among the state awards that there is no Order “For the Revival of Ukraine” and all the other signs, including the public fund that it is looking after. Mr. Azarov, they have no right to be called that. Then perhaps Mr. Azarov may have stumbled into this story by accident, as was the case with him five years ago when he entered the Masonic Order of St. No, of course not. This is one of the steps against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian President. Yes, it's against the President, because it's the President who issues the orders. This political mockery reminds me of one of our historical facts when Molotov and Rebentrop signed a famous agreement. After that, Molotov came to Stalin and said with joy that let us reward Ribentrop with the Order of Lenin. Stalin laughed, mentioning: “No, he can’t give up. Let's give him the Order of the Beautiful Star. He may not give up here. But there were people who were clever near Stalin, who encouraged him from that mockery. There were no wise men here, and no one comforted Azariah. It is dangerous, therefore, that this political provocation has hurt all over Ukraine as a civilized state. To conclude, it should be noted that this is not the kind of Ukraine that Mrs. Azarov and Zatulin are reborn. We will recall the Order, which is called “For the Renaissance of Ukraine”, and Ukraine authoritarian, mafia, savage. However, calls are already being made in Ukraine to declare not only Mr. Zatulin but also his protégé Mr. Azarov as a non-grat person. I think you and I will live to see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-15-m0.u208	Thank you. You've raised an interesting subject. But let's probably decide at the legislative level that there are only one orders and medals in the state. And so, unfortunately, every firm, firm, organization, semi-organization, establish their orders and medals and hand out thousands to the left, and so on, if not tens. Let's probably settle this legislatively. I am, for example, a strong proponent of remaining only those who are determined by the state. Yes, it was once the Supreme Council's prizes, the President's medals, and so on. Dear colleagues, those who remain, I thank you for the Chairman's support that you have not left me alone in this session room. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I remind you that next week we also have a plenary. Starting work at 10:00 p.m. on December 19th on Tuesday. Good luck.
