ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, radio, television, journalists. We're starting an evening session. Monday, July 24. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. People’s deputies are being registered. [[16:00:51]] There are 297 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome, on your behalf, the birthday of the national MP, Long Taras Alexiyovich, please. I also announce that, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the “Our Ukraine” parliamentary faction meeting of July 19, 2006, Billozo Oxana Volodymyrna was elected deputy head of the “Our Ukraine” faction. Let's welcome her. A meeting of the Conciliation Council took place today. The meeting confirmed the order of matters or questions that are scheduled for the week, including today. Accordingly, it is suggested that the issue of the inclusion in the agenda and the decision to hold a special plenary meeting of the Supreme Council be considered. We need to vote in favour of the Conciliation Council's proposal to include it in the agenda of the day. Please make up your mind. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:02:55]] For 238. Decision taken. One of the authors of the project is Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, a Ukrainian national deputy for this report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, your opinion is presented with a document - a draft decree for a special plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First of all, I'd like to give you an explanation of what's causing this. This is caused by the fact that in cases where the Supreme Council needs to meet urgently, unfortunately, without a decision, in this case, the Head of the Supreme Council, as well as the agreed-upon agenda, we cannot get together to take part in the discussion of the issues that life will bring before us. What is it? You and I are witnesses that today in society there is a struggle of two thoughts about how to fulfil the constitutional obligations of the organization of the work of power in general and, on the other hand, creating preconditions and obstacles to the failure of power in us, certain political forces are using the rules of the current Constitution regarding the dissolution of the Supreme Council and imposing a view in society that the Supreme Council may be dissolved. Today, as you and I know, there is no basis for the President and for certain political forces that impose this view, there is no constitutional legal one, because the terms defined in the Constitution and the rules of the Constitution that provide for the dissolution of the Supreme Council do not allow that. And in this case, according to the functioning and the Constitution, and the Supreme Council Rules, we have seen that there are no agreed issues on how to meet urgently for the Supreme Council, so that one-on-one or one-on-one group of our fellow MPs do not make a decision for us regarding the possible dissolution of the Supreme Council. What is it? You know that before the decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine consults with the Head of the Supreme Council, the deputy and the faction leaders, and in this case you and I are not part of this process, and there may be a situation that, once the consultations have begun, we will need to immediately gather the Supreme Council and make the appropriate decisions and, perhaps, the issues that will arise during the consultations, they may immediately be determined by our decision of the Supreme Council. So in this case, we proposed a draft decree to hold a special session. Why special? For an additional meeting, it is defined by the Constitution, the Rules, more faithfully, the Supreme Council. This is article 19, paragraph 8, of the Supreme Council Rules. And that's exactly what an additional meeting is, and it's about that we don't need to define the agenda, and we need to do that as soon as the President says he's ready to sign the decree on the release of the Supreme Council, we need to get together and discuss the terms of the consultation or the additional issues that arise during these consultations. But once again in the concluding part, we propose to emphasize that yes, indeed, we have the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of the Supreme Council. Next. What the Constitution foresees is the President's right regarding the dissolution of the Supreme Council. But in specific circumstances, it's also said. And it is also said that there is no basis for the dissolution of the Supreme Council. And it is also proposed that the first paragraph of this decree should it be found that, if the President of Ukraine initiates a consultation on the early termination of the Supreme Council's mandate for the plenary session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will meet immediately without calling. The second point in the case provided for in paragraph 1 of this decision is that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should immediately inform the Ukrainian national deputies of the time and place of the plenary meeting. And the third. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. This draft regulation is based on the possibility to use the ad hoc procedure, i.e. the reference to Article 50 of the Rules. What about the future by making changes to the existing Rules? Establish a standard that provides for similar practices or the development of political processes in our society. So I want to inform you that a committee meeting has taken place, and that's what the committee head will say, how the question has been addressed. I would like you to be the author of the bill, given that we give the public signals and answers that the Supreme Council is acting under the Constitution and the Supreme Council will fight for the constitutional rule of law in Ukraine. This is a draft determination, and it's a basis. If it is not accepted as a basis, I am prepared to inform the committee's chairman of what possible changes have been made to this decision. Although, as the author of this draft decision, I ask you, Your Honor, to vote on the basis and as a whole this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u3	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in, please. Five minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u4	Yes, it is five minutes according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u5	Five minutes according to the Rules. Please. Please, Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u7	Please. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u8	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor", Block "Our Ukraine". Peter Mikolaiovich, I understand this is a one-time thing. the actions of this decree. You give me an answer as to where this comes from, and why don't you talk about it as ad hoc? And the second question. I understand that when you smoke milk, you smoke cold water, because the Constitution does not provide for consultation with the Supreme Council, but only with the head, the deputy and the faction leaders, if that's the case. Then why don't you explain to me the plenary meetings to consult with the President? And then, does the Constitution match your initiative? Maybe I don't understand something, please give me an explanation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u9	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I still think you've read my draft ruling. It clearly states: “For the purpose of ensuring constitutional order, the rule of law in Ukraine in accordance with article 50 of the Ukrainian Rules”. Article 50 just provides for an ad hoc procedure. I gave you an answer as to what caused you doubt. Regarding consultations. Yes, indeed, we do not interfere with the constitutional field, which clearly determines that the President consults with the Head of the Supreme Council and his deputies and the heads of factions before the decree is issued. But in this case, it's about that we, as the ad hoc procedure in urgent and extreme conditions, propose that the entire Supreme Council, if possible, the Chief of the Supreme Council, the deputies and the heads of factions will find it difficult to accept conditions during these consultations to resolve any specific problems that the President may pose. And maybe that's the way it's going to be, let's say, the need. We've just proposed: let's hold an urgent meeting, a special plenary meeting, and then, with the participation of the national MPs, we'll give a full carte blanche for our leaders to agree at the end of these consultations that they agree with the demands put forward by the President. I think it's a normal democratic norm and it just predicts the development of democracy, including in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u10	Kelestin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u11	Alexander Alexanderovich, I have pressed the wrong button, but please pass the word to Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u12	Please hold on to that button you need and you won't have any questions. Pedestrian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u13	Thank you. The great Peter Mikolaiovich, the first question. Please tell me what will be the consequences if the President does not run for the post of Prime Minister of the one we have announced. And second moment. Please indicate in the Standing Committee the signatures that our colleagues in the BUIT today have applied for and so forth regarding the making of their credentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u14	Dear John Vasilovich, regarding the signatures, I can't give you information, I haven't done it, and I'm not responsible. This, I believe, is to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the Head of the Regulatory Committee, to the Secretary of the Supreme Council. What doesn't live up to the promises that have been made here from this rostrum is obvious. What they distributed as a guarantee that these would be the means of fighting for democracy in Ukraine and against which they called it, I believe that it was what is called “populism” and “Cinism” in politics. That's what I don't have, that's my point of view and I don't want to offend anyone, that's the right of the people's deputies, the leader of whom said that they're unanimously willing to file applications today and submit their credentials, that's their right. As far as July 31st is concerned. Yeah, I'm out of the next one. The President is entitled to 15 days, and then by August 3 there, not July 31st, he has the right to file. But I'm coming out completely different. The situation in the country is very dangerous, we're losing power today, so let's say there are people in power who will then not be responsible for anything. Leading the process, preparing for the winter today -- virtually no one is doing it. Harvesting, harvesting, no one does. Today, the preparation process for the budget, based on the fact that the main ingredient is the price of gas -- no one is doing it. That is, there are no real threats from the government. And considering that, after all, the presidential candidature that our coalition has put forward for consideration, it is not something that raises doubts in terms of professionalism, party and political responsibility. There are no preconceived procrastinations today. I am convinced that unfortunately, the President is delaying on other grounds, let's say, by submitting this candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u15	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u16	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich, well maybe it's already too late, because we know that today there should be 151 signatures for 16 hours and you want Alexander Alexanderovich to clarify the situation, maybe there's nothing left to decide. With regard to this decision, we support it. And as you think, Peter Mikolaiovich, can't we then, because this situation is unusual, we have not met this situation in the course of parliamentaryism in the years of independence, then put this rule in the Rules so that it is an effective norm of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u17	I fully support, Alexander Mikolayovich, your offer. I said that during the discussion at the committee meeting, there was a proposal that, at this particular moment, it would be possible for the Supreme Council to meet urgently, and in the future, based on what the practice might already be, let's say, and these events in Ukraine today show that it would also change the rules in force. But I'd like to address you again, ladies and gentlemen! The committee will report, but I'm asking you to take this decision as a basis, because it answers many other questions, regarding the legal principles of the President's action, because there's no reason, and you know that society is constantly being framed today by claims that I'm going to dissolve, that political, well, politics is being blackmailed in us in Ukraine, including the deputy of the Supreme Council. In this case, I think that this is exactly what will be the evaluation of the political and legal processes that are taking place, and the responsibility of our Supreme Council, which we are taking, claiming that we are going to keep the constitutional order in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u18	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'll answer Alexander Mikolaiovich's questions. Once the statements are made, they will be actionable. As long as there are no declarations, they will be considered in accordance with the Constitution of Ukrainian legislation. Please give the word for the report to Eugene Petrovich Kushnarov, the legal committee. The Conciliation Board commissioned the Legal Committee to provide regular information on this matter. But they agreed to the reports of the chairman of the legal committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u19	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. As instructed by the Conciliation Board of the Committee on Legal Policy, the draft decree prepared by Deputys Simonenko and Matthew was considered. We supported the draft of this decision and the main argument that we were guided by is the following. Since the Constitution clearly gives the President the right to dissolve Parliament in three cases, it can work under certain conditions. At the same time, however, our legislation does not regulate how this should be done. In addition, this right is exercised by the President’s right to consult with the Head of the Supreme Council, his deputies, and the factions. So in that case, these consultations are the last possible way to find compromise. And it would be strange if the Head of the Supreme Council, listening to arguments and other participants in the consultations, made a decision on his own or not. Normally, if the Chief of the Supreme Council immediately convenes a session and informs the deputies, they will get a point of view and perhaps find the same last compromise that will help to avoid this difficult situation. So that's why, based on the legal principles, not the political ones, we supported this draft decision, but at the same time that this decision is supported by as many deputies as possible. We asked the project authors to remove some political color from the noticeable part, and to rely solely on legal standards. And they also proposed to the operative part adding a third paragraph on the mandate of the Rules of Procedure Committee to deal with this issue, to prepare it and to put it into order as a permanent rule of the Rules. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u20	I would immediately like to warn all of us against adopting this document as a permanent norm of the Rules, because such cases occur at unique moments, only in exceptional moments and in fact refer to the rules of the Constitution, which is hardly appropriate. But it's such a thing. Three minutes to ask. Please. Chef Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u21	Dear Eugene Petrovich, I have a few questions about this decision. You are the Head of the Legal Committee. Of course, you know that there are three possibilities in the Constitution for the convening of a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, this is the Constitution, I stress, that it is the initiative of either the President, or the Head of the Supreme Council, or one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council. In this regard, do you not see a violation of the Constitution if such a decision is adopted? And the second. Please tell me, what is the nature of this meeting of the Supreme Council if it doesn't fit into the calendar plan -- once and if it happens in the Constitution in a specified period between the two sessions? Is this an emergency session or an emergency session? How can such a meeting be characterized in legal terms?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u22	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. We don't see any violations of the Constitution here, because in this decree, paragraph two of the right to convene such a session belongs to the Head of the Supreme Council. We're just determining in which case he's using that right. Your second question. I think you'll agree that the possible dissolution of Parliament is an extraordinary event for the life of the state and it needs a huge balance of all on whom acceptance depends. I emphasize that if the Constitution did not provide for a mechanism of consultation, then the convening of such a council would be of a nature, well, some answer to the Supreme Council. And that could make the situation worse, the opposition, and so on. But it's because there's a consultation mechanism as the last opportunity to seek compromise that we're thus allowing the head of the Supreme Council to include in the search for this last compromise the entire composition of the Supreme Council. This is, in my opinion, both constitutional and democratic.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u23	A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u24	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. I didn't get the buttons wrong this time. So please give the floor to Deputy Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u25	Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u26	Dear Eugene Petrovich, lately you do not rarely appeal to your opponents with the call not to rush to make legal assessments due to the absence of a court order. So I want to ask you: do you not consider it invalid to have a decision of the Constitutional Court in the text of the decision to evaluate actions, as recorded here by individual political forces, as if they were unconstitutional? Why does the Supreme Council have to take on powers that can be exercised exclusively by the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u27	Thank you. I've actually answered that question. Now I'm going to do it again and more specifically. That was the main point made by the members of our committee regarding the founding part of the project that was being prepared by the people’s deputies. We suggested that this paragraph be cleaned up completely. In the second paragraph, it is only a statement of the fact that there is a basis under the Constitution for divorce and that there is a need for consultation. And they added a few more sentences that, in order to find a way out of this situation, the Supreme Council decides, and beyond. So we have, I said, proposed to remove the political colour from the contention of this decision, but this is the right of the authors and the Supreme Council itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u28	Thank you, sit down, please. If you would like to make a statement regarding this bill, please write down. Sign up for the performance. We've got 13 deputies on board. Let's take 10 minutes to talk. Please, Baldwin, please. You can come from the rostrum, you can come from where you're comfortable.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u29	Dear Alexander Alexandrović, distinguished colleagues, voters of Ukraine! We are with you in a situation where, clearly, the situation is clear, everyone understands that elections are only needed by two political parties: the Party of the Regions and the Yulia Timoshenko Block, which, in accordance with all sociological surveys, will undoubtedly improve their electoral performance. At the same time, one of these political forces, the Party of the Regions, for the preservation of budgetary money, for the preservation of social tranquillity, in order to end political hysteria, calls upon all society and the President and its political opponents and allies not to hold these elections, but to work, because, in our view, elections do not significantly change the situation in society, do not significantly change representation. The only thing that might then be included in the anti-crisis coalition is not three, but perhaps two parties, or maybe even one Party of the Regions will be able to form a simple majority in Parliament. Unfortunately, our opponents do not hear these arguments and, with persistence worthy of better application, put pressure on the current President of Ukraine, on their political allies outside Ukraine and demand the immediate dissolution of parliament. In my view, what we are about to do with you now, I refer to the ruling proposed by the distinguished Deputy Simonenko, which is the same action that must be taken regardless of how meaningful, substantive part of this document is. We must do this in order to show society that we are acting, that we are on guard, that we are following the interests of the legislature, ultimately the interests of our constituents. Therefore, I call upon our present deputies from the faction of Our Ukraine and even those few deputies from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, who dared, despite the terror in their factions, to enter the Hall, to vote in favour of this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u30	Thank you. The word is given by Zvarič Roman Mikhajlovich of “Our Ukraine”. Please. More true than yourself, but from the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u31	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues, I would ask you to listen now to certain arguments, because I would very much hate for us to enter into a legal field that will not entirely correspond to, perhaps even be in direct contradiction with the Constitution of Ukraine. First of all, I have to say right away that, apart from the fact that I understand very well the political motivation for this decision, I have to say that it's not exactly on a legal scale written down. For one reason or another, please take a look at the decision and answer the question: Who is calling this plenary meeting? There is no answer to that question in the decision. Secondly, I draw your attention to the fact that, if this is an additional meeting, it is within the appropriate session. We have proven with great success today that it is very easy to hold such an additional meeting without violating the Rules, that is, without making any changes to the Rules in order and thus inventing some legal aberration to convene this meeting. And if there's an inter-sessional term, then this meeting could be of a very short-term nature. This could be an early plenary session, or even a late one, extracurricularly, sorry, session. Again, it is not clear in the ruling whether it will be an extraordinary session or an extraordinary plenary session. And that's the last one. In addition to the fact that the Rules define a procedure or order for convening such extraordinary meetings, the Constitution makes it very clear that this is the basic law of the State, very clearly stated by the three subjects who have the right to initiate such extraordinary plenary sessions. This is the President, this is the Head of the Supreme Council and this is one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tell me, please, in the event that these circumstances arise, as described in this decree, which prevents us from collecting 150 signatures in order to make a request to the Chief of the Supreme Council to convene such a meeting. I am convinced then that the Head of the Supreme Council will respond well to the thought of one third of the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition. So I urge you not to vote in favour of this decision and to allow you to act in the right constitutional field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u32	Kuzmenko Sergey Leonidovich, Soc party faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! I would like to say, first of all, that the previous speaker probably didn't read the draft decision very carefully, because if he read it carefully, he would read in the first paragraph who called the meeting. This meeting will be convened by the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will vote if it votes in favour. That is, the question of who calls in the text of the decree is solved. I find it absolutely necessary to adopt this decision, because the political situation in Ukraine, the political situation around the Supreme Council and the unwillingness of Ukraine's politicians to accept the majority that was created in the Supreme Council, and the anti-crisis plan that this majority is willing to implement requires such a decision. This is understandable and doubts can be expressed only by people who, worse or worse, are better off. Imagine that the Supreme Council is dissolved. What do we have? We have 60 days of pre-election campaign and a government that does the duty, and then another 60 days to form a new majority, a new government, so we have four months of extension of that power that is today, or that disorder, that will be more accurate. Can we go through with this? No, it's not. We have no right, we are not authorized by the voters to take such steps to the detriment of Ukraine. So it's absolutely right that we have to use all the means to prevent this from happening. I am absolutely sure that this decision should be made. I know we have enough votes to take this decision. There is no contradiction to the Constitution or to the Rules, as the ad hoc standard is used in this case. And once this decision is adopted, it will be clear whether there is political will in the Supreme Council, or whether the political will of the Supreme Council is confirmed once again, to come out of the crisis in order to overcome the phenomena that are now in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u35	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The moment of truth is coming, will we have to answer the eternal question of Hamlet, whether we are united in Ukraine or not, whether we are stable in the country or not? At the time of weight, the most important of all is the unity of the country, the stability of society, peace and tranquillity of the citizens. The key to addressing these problems is in the hands of the President of the country. Dear Victor Andreevich, today you must make a historic choice on which tomorrow will depend. Or you will act as a mediocre politician, driven by individual maniacal political leaders, ready to pursue their career goals and achieve absolute power once again to plunge the country into chaos and anarchy. Or you will act as a true leader of the nation, as a public figure who thinks not of his political prospects and prospects for his political party, but of the future of the State and of the people. A reasonable alternative is how to implement the will of the Ukrainian people, who have won the country's first date in the parliamentary elections of the Party of the Regions, which, in accordance with the Constitution, has formed a coalition majority in Parliament, which has nominated Viktor Yanukovic, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for your position as Prime Minister of Ukraine, Victor Andrejevic, simply does not. Further extension in the country of agony and state power, to put it mildly, is simply not reasonable. The fate of the country is at stake! A party of regions, a state anti-crisis coalition, once again stretches out your hand to unite the country and consolidate society. I want to believe that you will act as a wise public figure. And our hand won't go out in the air. And you will send a presentation to Parliament today for appointment by the Prime Minister of Ukraine as leader of the Party of the Regions, Viktor Yanuković. And the parliamentary majority, whose number will soon reach the constitutional norm, the Government of People's Confidence, led by Viktor Yanukovic, along with the President of the country, will continuously pursue policies aimed at strengthening the unity of the country and the consolidation of society, at enhancing the State's social, political and financial and economic power and at significantly increasing social standards on this basis in the lives of people. The raging Middle East conflict, which has claimed the lives of dozens and hundreds of innocent civilians, is yet another warning to be sounded by national politicians. The main purpose of the politicians is not to separate and destroy, but to unite and build the people of Ukraine. I propose to support the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u36	Thank you. We're being heard by radio today. You have the final word. Please. Listen to the author’s closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I would just like to give a brief answer to the difficult questions highlighted by the speakers in this rostrum. First. I want to confirm once again that this is not an additional meeting of the Supreme Council. a special meeting of the Supreme Council. Because the convening of an additional meeting provides for proposals on the order of the day. And we're going to have the order of the day practically, so let's say, this is to listen to the information of those who are conducting or conducting consultations with the President, and according to the situation, we're already going to define here in the session room and the agenda, and the solutions. It's different. Paragraph three of the finding is that it is today that it does not politicize the situation, in my opinion, but rather it shows that we have different political forces in Ukraine, which are already using different methods, not only call mechanisms, but also force the President to take decisions on the termination of the Supreme Council's mandate and the holding of early elections. These political forces have left our Supreme Council Hall and these are realities. So in a concrete part, we clearly reflect that there are certain processes that threaten the constitutional order of our country. And the last. I'd like to talk to my colleagues who are so distracted by the estimates of abracadabra and so on. First, you give your graduate a copy of the lawyer’s diploma to the staff department and then you give the appropriate grades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this issue today, and the radio audience is obviously thinking about what they're arguing about. I, by your permission, am allowed to do this by the Rules, I will read the draft of this decree, because it is short, and you will listen again to the text and you will understand why it is putting to the vote. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold a special plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine On May 25, 2006, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine commissioned the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 115, part 4, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers continues to exercise its mandate before the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine begins. The constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine include the decision to terminate the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine solely on the grounds and in cases directly defined by the Basic Law. In particular, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not form a personal composition within 60 days of the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Under the Constitution of Ukraine, the creation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of its powers to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine is not defined as its resignation. Despite the absence of constitutional grounds for the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, individual political forces and politicians require the President of Ukraine to act unconstitutionally, to issue an order for the current constitutional legal situation to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a permanent basis. With a view to ensuring constitutional order in Ukraine, according to article 50 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. To establish that, if the President of Ukraine initiates consultations on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he shall meet without appeal. The other one. In the case provided for in the first paragraph of this decree, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should immediately inform the Ukrainian national deputies of the time and place of the plenary meeting. Third. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Even before I vote, just before the formation of the new Supreme Council of Ukraine, the former shall exercise its powers until the time of the formation of the new Parliament, before the opening of the first session. This is article 90 of the Constitution. So there won't be a break in the functioning of Parliament. And I hope, and I sincerely believe that the requirements of this decree will not be applied. It is simply a procedure that provides for the operationality of dealing with the issue if it arises. But I hope it doesn't come up at all. I'm putting this project on the ground. Please vote. [[16:41:19]] For 244 Decision taken. Supplement? In general, can we put it to a vote? I'm betting on this project as a whole. Please. Do you have a supplement? Well, please. Wait a minute. Take down the vote. Please, Mikola Vasilovich. It doesn't matter. He participates in the work and even votes against. That means he's voting. Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, I'm sorry. Your father says I know you, but I don't know your last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the paragraph that Alexander Alexandrovich has just read, this is the second paragraph of the ruling, where there are words, that is the second sentence, “but according to the Constitution of Ukraine the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is not recognized as his resignation.” It's not defined. Alexander Alexandrovich, I would like to point out that this is already about the interpretation of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in general we are going a little too far, especially given that if we take this position, it means that there will be no responsibility for the ever-elected Supreme Council if the government is not formed. Therefore, the Supreme Council is not currently able to interpret the Constitution. It's strictly the Constitutional Court's jurisdiction, and I would ask that sentence to be removed for the sake of the validity of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u40	Mikola Vasilovich, the point is that the normative part is the first, second, third point. And that's the evaluative characteristic. If the MPs are wrong, they can then be oriented towards the assessment of the Constitutional Court. But if you've made this proposal, I'll put it to a vote. Who is it to take into account and remove this sentence from Nikola Vasilovich's proposal? Please. [[16:43:36]] For-39 39 votes for -- not enough. I'm putting this whole document as a decision of the Supreme Council. [[16:43:59]] For 244 It's been decided. Announcing the subject. The factions? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, I declare: Region Party – 186, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 3, "Our Ukraine" – 2, SPI, Soccer of Ukraine – 33, Communists – 20. A draft Decree on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2007 is being announced for consideration. Reported to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Azarov Mikola Janović. Ten minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u41	The distinguished President, the distinguished people's deputies, the distinguished voters, would like to emphasize the irregularity of the decision to be taken by our Parliament. Today, we are returning to a literate, clear and predictable budgetary policy, but in principle new conditions. For the first time, we will adopt the framework of budgetary policy for the parliamentary-presidential republic. That is, we will form a political and economic task, in fact, for ourselves, for a coalition government that will act in accordance with the European canons of political commitments in the parliamentary-government coalition. The Government of Ukraine will be formed for the first time by political forces that have received a mandate of confidence from the people, and this means that we are beginning to live up to our obligations to the electorate directly. Our aim is to restore high rates of economic growth and, on the basis of them, to raise living standards dramatically in Ukraine, to move rapidly towards European standards of economic, civil economic and civil humanitarian freedoms. The complexity and responsibility of the challenges that lie ahead in achieving this goal can only be assessed by recognizing the situation of the country. In the 2006 budget, there were devastating imbalances. The implementation of this budget has already failed. The Pension Fund was in serious danger. The submitting Government proposed a budget resolution that would involve the continuation of stagnation in the coming year, freezing the real income of the population with uncontrolled inflation. The economy is neither prepared nor prepared for rising energy prices. The currency reserves of the Treasury are ravaged day after day by thoughtless customs policies. The Budget Committee, in accordance with the requirements of article 33 of the Ukrainian Budget Code as a result of parliamentary hearings, on budgetary policy issues for 2007 and on the analysis of proposals by committees, MPs and people's deputies, has prepared a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the main areas of budgetary policy for 2007. We propose a stabilization document that clearly gives the economy a positive signal of the predictability and transparency of budgetary policies not only for 2007 but also for subsequent years. What are the essential principles of this document? First of all, it's the stability of the tax base, it's the reduction of fiscal burden, it's the protection and support of the domestic producer, it's the preservation and increase in social expenditures achieved, it's the increase in the share of local budgets in the consolidated budget. The strategic objective of tax policy is to ensure that the social obligations of the State are fulfilled at a higher level, while continuing to reduce fiscal pressure on business. Thus, it is a matter of resource-generating budget growth through economic growth, improved tax administration and the promotion of business deterrence. The sustainability of budgetary policies and the course for economic freedoms will enable business to carry out early planning and strengthen fair competition. The Budget Committee proposes to limit the share of the reallocation of gross domestic product through the consolidated budget in 2007 to no more than 30 per cent. It should be noted that the last two years have been dominated by the opposite trend that has hampered economic growth, an increase in the reallocation of GDP through the budget from 26.5 per cent in 2004 to 32.3 per cent in the current year. The outgoing Government has proposed to continue this devastating trend for the stagnant economy, but we are establishing a fundamentally different trend in promoting business activity, reducing the tax burden on the public economy by more than 2 per cent, that is, leaving more than 10 billion rubble at the disposal of operators in 2007. What is the reason why it is proposed to reduce the tax burden? First, we propose to reject clearly adventurous innovations with the introduction of new taxes, we propose to clearly maintain simplified taxation for small businesses, to return to special tax regimes, these are technoparks, free economic zones, priority development zones, for those projects that have demonstrated efficiency and prospects. We propose that, for the sake of reliability, these projects be approved by either the Government or the Supreme Council. This will give a positive impetus to real investment projects. Secondly, we are tasking the Government to return to the major structural reforms that have been abandoned for two years, particularly the tax, which includes a substantial reduction in core taxes. Of course, such a policy would require a very meaningful budgeting effort from the Government. The tasks and mechanisms of such work must be seen in Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme, which the Government is under an obligation to submit to the Supreme Council, together with the draft State budget for 2007. The future Government is also offered guidelines to increase the income of the budget in the face of a reduction in fiscal burden. First, the impact on the country's economy, on the development of the internal market of a number of laws that have reduced the level of customs protection of the Ukrainian market, must be carefully analysed. In some cases, there has been an unjustified decline in protection far earlier than those defined by the transitional periods in the protocols signed by Ukraine on mutual access to markets for goods and services. As a result of the unwarranted customs policy since 2005, the country's trade balance had become unacceptable, which had exceeded last year's levels only in the first half of 2006 and had reached $2.6 billion. In the 2007 government budget resolution, the trade balance is expected to fall to negative $4.3 billion, which is simply unacceptable in terms of national economic security. Therefore, the Government's crucial task would be a well-founded literate non-conflict recovery of protective measures that would eliminate the negative external trade balance and ensure the country's positive balance for 2008. Second. The Government should propose large-scale investment infrastructure projects in the social and economic development programme, which would provide economic growth to compensate for the revenue of the State budget. With a view to making more reasonable and targeted use of budgetary resources, it is proposed that the balance of the State budget and local budgets be substantially adjusted to address the specific needs of the people. If, in 2004, the Government of Viktor Fedorović Januković had led the share of local budgets to 41 per cent, the Government of Timoshenko had already reduced to 37 in 2005, the Government of Timoshenko had projected about 40 in 2006, and the same trajectory had been proposed to leave us for 2007. We must come up with a sound decision to increase the proportion of local budgets in the country's consolidated budget in order to enable local self-government to exercise the powers delegated by the State, to address the maintenance of the territories and to support the promotion of regional socio-economic development. In the 2007 budget policy framework order, we also give the Government a number of tasks to improve the administration of the expenditure portion of the budget. Comprehensively resolves the issue of accounts receivable, accounts payable by budgetary institutions. Including by limiting prepayment. It is hard to save budgetary resources for the administrative costs of public authorities. Monitor effective energy savings in budgetary institutions. Funding of the State budget to support economic actors and to conduct applied research in the economy solely on a return basis. Improve the system of evaluation of the effectiveness of budget programmes and strengthen monitoring of their implementation. Priority should be given to public-capital investment in housing-communal reform and, above all, to disaster prevention. I would like to draw particular attention to the Government's mandate to analyse energy pricing policies. The Government is invited, at the same time as the draft budget, to provide cost calculations for natural gas, electricity, the validity of established prices, raised prices, for consumers of all categories, and proposals to optimize tariffs for 2007. A few words on the procedure for consideration by the Budget Committee of the proposed regulation. Some 40 letters were sent to the Committee with proposals from other committees, MPs and members of the people. They were all reviewed and worked by the working group and reported by a member of the budget committee. The proposal for the text of the Government's draft budget resolution had not been taken into account, as budget legislation did not provide for changes to that text. Accordingly, under article 33, part six, of the Budget Code, the Supreme Council may either favour or accept a document submitted by the Government. The Budget Committee invites Parliament not to approve a controversial, non-specific government project but to adopt it. The proposal for specific directions for development of selected industries, regions, is not taken into account because they are not subject to budgetary policy. The budget proposal is also not reflected in the budget resolution, as such proposals are being considered during the adoption of the draft State Budget Act itself for 2007. On the basis of the foregoing, I request a proposal from the Committee. Introducing the proposal of the Budget Committee of the Supreme Council to adopt the relevant draft decision of the Supreme Council, namely, the first to adopt the main budget policy guidelines of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u42	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u43	Endorses the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers on the main areas of budgetary policy in 2007 as set out in the proposals for a regulation. Third. To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2007, taking into account the main areas of budgetary policy for 2007, proposals and instructions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u44	Is there a question to Nikola Janovich? Including the hearings we had here on Friday. Yes. Please write it down for questions. Five minutes. Danielne Mikola Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u45	Nikolai Janović, Danilin, Soccer faction, city of Kiev. Our Committee on Environment, Environment and Chernobyl has considered, taken action and referred them to the Budget Committee. In particular, it provides for the strengthening of the logistics base of the health-care system for people affected in Chernobyl, the establishment of national disaster management programmes and so on. Unfortunately, as far as I know, none of the proposals that have been submitted to the Budget Committee have been included. That's my question. This is related to the reasons and the reasons for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u46	Your proposal may be taken into account, as we accept this document on first reading today, and it may be taken into account in the process of finalizing the document for second reading. But I would like to say that if we had taken all the proposals into account in the first place, the volume of the document that referred to our proposals and instructions to the Government would have increased tenfold. It is therefore quite natural that some of the proposals did not form part of the document. But in this case, it can be considered and taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u47	Thank you. Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u48	Matvienkov, Socialist faction. Dear Nikolai Janović, I have two questions for you. First. First of all, we support the faction that it is on first reading that the bill is adopted, because it is paper and it needs to be worked on very seriously. That's the first one. Second. Our opinion. We believe that it has been enormous to remove all free economic zones and to deprive them of them, also perhaps it is wrong to approach them now and return them to the level of 1 January 2005. There is a need for a clear regulatory mechanism so that we do not turn free economic zones again into money transfer mechanisms and turn them into launderers, let us say, mechanisms for our industrial facilities that are virtually non-functional and that there is only paper walking. That's the first half of the question. How do you feel about that? And the second. Status of budgetary organizations in education, institutions. We have talked about this and stressed that we are simply throwing the category of people into a system of survival or non-survivability. How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u49	I'll answer right from the second answer. Which, for purely technical reasons, has not entered into the draft of our mandate to the Government, it will be included because we have considered and supported it on the committee. This proposal will therefore be taken into account in the final version. With regard to free economic zones. When the climate is referred to, one thing is forgotten is that it is important for the investor to be stable in tax legislation. It is not possible to drift continuously, to cancel, to enter, and to cancel again under various good - for - good pretexts. Therefore, we must say once and for all that the action of the Government of Timoshenko to abolish the stimulating role of investment projects has been a mistake, and we, as the Government, recognize and, as the Supreme Council, will restore investor confidence and in the future we will never allow a long-term investment project with high efficiency to be interrupted. The text of the budget resolution makes it clear that free economic zones are considered by the Government to be effective by the same technology park, priority development territory and special decisions. In my report, I specifically mentioned this and said that we could even raise the level of approval of these projects by considering it in a special decree of the Supreme Council. But we must assure investors that no concessional regimes will ever be lifted.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u50	Chubarov. Please. Rephat Abdurahmanović, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u51	Dear Mikola Janovich! In the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2007 to the main thrusts of budgetary policy, paragraph 12 sets out a list of protected articles on the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget. Among these are housing expenses for military personnel, but you know that there are other programs approved by the government, such as a program for settling Crimean Tatars returning to Ukraine. I'd like to ask you, Mikolo Yanovich. If these proposals are not defined by us, is it not a threat to us because when we form a budget, let us say that we will treat them in such a final way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u52	I am very sorry that, in the two years that the Government of Viktor Fedorović Januković has resigned and a completely different course is being implemented, the financing of various budget programmes depends on the goodwill of the Government. We will restore automatic funding, 100 per cent full compliance with the State budget. Therefore, for me, it has always been, in general, conditionally divided into socially protected, non-socially protected expenses, all of which have been financed by 100 per cent in accordance with the budget breakdown. But given the situation with the budget for today, I would like to add to paragraph 12, including the programme you mentioned, given its social nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u53	Thank you. Sit down, please. The report is by Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, who serves as minister of finance. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u54	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine took note of the draft proposals and assignments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the main directions of budgetary policy for 2007. Among them are the right things to be taken into account in the development of the 2007 budget and in the operational work of the government. In particular, with regard to payment discipline, government management of the economy. At the same time, a number of basic things need to be noted. The provisions of the draft regulation on the stability of the tax base and the gradual reduction of the tax burden contradict each other. Because stability means stability, and so the inability to reduce taxes. We've claimed and claimed that taxes need to be reduced, and in the preparation of the 2007 budget, we're taking into account the decrease in payroll and currency-sales taxes. Therefore, these standards must be brought into line with one another. The government cannot agree with the proposals for inclusion in the budget of expenditure that cannot be provided with real tax revenues from the economy and cannot be implemented. An extremely serious risk to the future economy and its citizens is placed under the rule of re-establishing tax-free regimes that were in place until 2005. It is not possible to understand the logic of the tax benefits involved in importing. A national producer cannot withstand competition when its production is taxed on VAT and a similar import product is exempt from VAT. Such actions do not create a favourable investment environment, but they destroy it because they increase investor risks as a result of unequal tax conditions, because one pays taxes and the other under the same conditions is exempt from them. It's essentially a massive recovery of offshore areas in the middle of the country that functioned in previous years, and any free economic zone is an offshore zone. The scales of shadow patterns in recent years are well illustrated in the last two years. I ask you to remember these figures: in 2004, with GDP rising by 12.1 percent, the revenue growth of the State Budget General Fund was 9.5 billion. In 2005, GDP grew by 2.6 percent, four times less. There's an increase of 32.6 billion. The bracelet is 3.4 times higher. Over the past year, taxes on added value have increased more than twice. I would like to point out that in 2005 VAT growth was twice as high as the VAT increase in the previous four years. And today, the project on these incomes is carrying an ax. This increase in income is due to the closure of various shadow schemes that existed in Ukraine earlier. This allowed not only to eliminate the critical balance of the budget last year but also to obtain substantial financial resources to take serious steps towards overcoming poverty. I'll remind you. That last year's minimum wage was raised by 40%, the average wage was 45%. There is a 12fold increase in child support, 5.5 times in support of orphans, 3.6 times in support of children with disabilities. Retirement insurance has been eliminated. Clearly, many billions of dollars had not previously been paid to ordinary citizens of Ukraine. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the recovery of taxes will result in a loss of $12.5 billion in budget income. Under these conditions, it is not only possible to raise the minimum wage in 2007 but also to pay the minimum wage of 400 dollars introduced in December 2006. Because this is where the so-called transitional expenses come in. I'll explain this: according to our estimates, the budget growth next year is 14 billion. 12.5 eats tax benefits if this standard is accepted, and only for 400 dollars, since it is introduced in December, transitional expenses amount to 6 billion dollars plus 3 billion dollars to increase pensions for participants in hostilities. Many other social programs are at risk. Such decisions do not contribute to the economic development of the country. I hope that, in the past years, everyone has had the opportunity to see how the economy reacts to the fact that the pensioner does not receive a pension in time, and the teacher and the doctor have the salary, to the fact that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u55	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u56	On you. That the budget cannot be calculated for work - management entities or services rendered. We want to warn you that re-establishing tax-free regimes will lead to a critical budget imbalance, impact on many social programs, threaten serious financial destabilization in the country. Only one thing is comforting: If this is generally a comfort, it is not only ordinary citizens who will be affected, although it is they who will be the first to feel the first blow. This will be felt by the owners of businesses, as the inevitable result of financial destabilization is the fall in the capitalization of Ukrainian enterprises. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine insists on the removal of the relevant rules of the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u57	Thank you. Is there a question for Viktor Mikhailovich? None. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the discussion. Let's take 20 minutes, shall we? Because there's one more question we need to be able to consider. Mother, please. Quick to prepare. Please. Did you pass on the word to Onechück? Please. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk of “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to one, indeed, rather important, situation related to the document currently under discussion. This is about the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the main directions of budgetary policy for 2007. This applies in particular to the re-establishment of the legal regime of free economic zones and technology parks and priority areas. By the way, I would like to point out that it was in 2005 that the regime was lifted not only for economic zones and technology parks, but also for priority areas. This category is not available in the specified document when it comes to restoring the benefits. This is the first time. Secondly, it seems to me that, despite a certain benefit that it is necessary to return to the free economic zones and technology regime, in fact, at the same time, the project proposes a somewhat flawed approach, related to the fact that it is expected to return again to the total return of all the benefits that took place before 1 January 2005. Now the Minister of Finance has pointed out, particularly this defect, which will lead to a significant decrease in the level of government budget income, especially in terms of the fact that such a decision should be preceded by the inventory of relevant projects in free economic zones and technology parks, because some of them, as the research has shown, were actually effective and those, i.e., where the benefits would have to be saved, but close to, more than half clearly, where they were used as a means of tax evasion and tax reduction. So, first of all, we're making a proposal in this regard that paragraph 5 should be amended, in particular, we can't restore the law at all, more faithfully, by this document, the activity of the relevant projects, we can restore either the operation of the law, or we can restore the operation of the legal regime. Instead, the project proposes to restore the activities of projects in areas. This, I think, is actually the initiative of economic operators, not Parliament. This is the first time. Secondly, it is quite obvious that the word “preservation of the tax regime” in paragraph 5, which worked until 1 April, should be deleted, since, firstly, the tax regime does not cover customs congregations, and they are essential, instead indicating the need for inventory of such projects and the use of judicial procedures to stop those projects which are ineffective. Under the circumstances, this could be improved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u59	Thank you. Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, Šibko Vitaliy Jakovic, gave her the word from the Socialist faction. She will be followed by Cosub.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u60	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs has handled the relevant comments well, but at the same time there are appropriate comments that need to be corrected somewhat. I fully support the offer, and this is our faction’s proposal to view the article in paragraph 5 of the free economic zones. Nevertheless, adjustments are needed, perhaps taking into account what needs to be considered in terms of technology parks. The second is that I would still like to make remarks on privatization. If you look back in the main directions that are being submitted, you might say that the total amount of property rights in the State today is 28 billion. So when we want to make two percent according to the project of the budget, it's 11.5 billion. Dear friends! There is virtually nothing to privatize, so this item needs to be reviewed and taken into account the proposal of the State Property Fund, where we said: there are other sources of budget replenishment. For the third year, the Law on the Taxation of Natural Persons has been transposed. Today, property is being implemented and property valuations are carried out either at a book value or at the cost of BTI at no real cost. According to the Evaluation and Evaluation Act, the sale of property should take place, resulting from the introduction of the Act of 1 January and the total revenue to the budget per year could be about 10 billion dollars. This amount was proposed by the State Property Fund in order to introduce this law and not to transfer it again, as it was in previous relevant periods. The second is that I want it to be accounted for and partly included here in paragraph 3 concerning rent payments. I want to say that, for today's rent plan, the State Property Fund has been implemented by 184 percent and here, if you look at the management decisions that need to be made in part of the municipal property, this amount cannot be more than local taxes and congregations, it will have to be adjusted. And so that we don't have other Elite Centres to introduce the Law on the Taxation of Individuals along with the Registration of Property Rights, then we won't have to lose our budget because of the underpayment of the respective customs congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u61	Thank you. Cosub, he'll be followed by a Zebrowsky. The Cosuba is handing the Ribak to Vladimir Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u62	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished deputies, invited. Based on the content and specifics of our powers, national deputies should pay particular attention to the current state of the local budgets, their relationship with the State budget, the many serious problems faced by local governments in the area of finance. The problems that our citizens face every day arise in specific territorial communities, and that is where these issues need to be addressed. So decentralization in the state's financial system towards local budgets is one of the main tasks of our parliament. Only under such conditions will people feel that the central authorities, the local authorities, have come to address the issues of improving their lives. With real information from regions and cities, I can only join those critical remarks to the address of the government's core project that took place during recent parliamentary hearings. For example, in the “Local Budgets” section, the project contains virtually no specific indicators and proposals, as required by article 33 of the Budget Code. Not as far as the value of budget transfers is concerned, nor as to the number of protected expenditure articles, nor as to the relationship between the State and the local budgets for 2007. The explanatory note did not discuss ways to overcome the difficult situation of rising the price of natural gas and other energy. In the local budget structure, this indicator alone takes 40 percent of the heat supply, and in local budgets, the cost of this increase is unforeseeable, and the government does not offer, which can lead to new technological disasters such as Alcevska. I would like to point out that, after the work of the Committee on Budgets on Parliamentary Hearings on the main lines, we have received a qualitatively new document. The committee takes into account the most important proposals aimed at ensuring the interests of local self-government, such as clearly defined for protected expenditure articles, and transfers should be made to local budgets. Do not allow articles in the draft State Budget Act to limit the income of local budgets and so on. Therefore, in view of the above, I propose to the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the Committee's decision and its proposals and mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers on the drafting of the State Budget 2007 Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u63	The word is from “Our Ukraine, ” followed by Nikolayenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I'd like to start by saying to Mikla Janović that the people of Ukraine should stop being horrified by the failure to implement the budget, because the budget is being implemented and the comings to the Pension Fund are also being implemented and are being reversed -- 2.2 billion dollars have been more planned for the budget. Start. I would like to point out that the working group of the Budget Committee has worked hard enough, worked on the budget resolution proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. There were plenty of suggestions. Tolerantly and professionally, the working group did the study. However, two new items emerged after the meeting of the working group: paragraph 5 and paragraph 6. Paragraph 5 provides for the restoration of free economic zones with the benefits they have been. It is completely correlated with paragraph 6, which says that the budget redistribution through the budget should go down from 32.5 percent to 30 percent. So this 12.5 billion is actually going to come from point 5 on the recovery of the benefits, on the restoration of offshore zones. We need to understand that the budget resolution proposed today does not provide for any tax money. I mean, no reduction in tax pressure is anticipated. And the 12.5 billion that Mikola Janović was talking about, we're not going to get at the expense of free economic zones. We have to take a clear look at all of this, and then we're going to look at paragraph 8 of the Cabinet of Ministers mandate, which provides for the phased introduction of aids for children of war, the social protection of children of war. I would like to point out that the Socialists, Communists and the Party of the Regions have initiated the adoption of the Law on the Social Protection of the Children of War. And they stressed, especially before the election was, and when it was so serious, in fact, these factions care about the social protection of the population category, then I'd like to say that we don't have to give benefits to some specifically defined entrepreneurs and businessmen to send this money to the social protection of children of war. Regrettably, or fortunately, there has been no review of tariff policy under the laws of the WTO. I think we really need to think about tariffs and myths here, because we've already signed protocols for the entrance to WTO. And if we look at customs tariffs for today, I'm afraid we're going to review protocols again and then we're never going to join the WTO, and I'm convinced, especially the faction of the “Regions” as well as the faction of “Our Ukraine” very much wants Ukraine to be in SOTA. Thank you for your attention. The “Our Ukraine” faction will only vote in the first reading and, if these two rules are not deleted, vote in favour of the Budget Resolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u65	Thank you. For help. Under the Children of War Act, all MPs, including “Our Ukraine”, personally Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko and personally Victor Mikhajlovich Pinzenik, were voting. The word is Nicholas, please. He'll be followed by Plastinski instead of Har.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u66	It's a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We discussed today the Supreme Council's draft regulation on "On the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2007" and we confirm that we have made a number of concrete proposals for the improvement of this document. [[by Vasil Alexandrovich Volga]] In particular, we insist on what's in the document, but we insist that the norm be taken into account as the taxation of insurance companies, because there's a huge amount of money taxed there today. [[We support it in the first reading to accept it, on the basis of]] In addition, we think we need to mention the game business, because, according to our data, we know that today's investment in the game business is huge, and there's a million or two that's been budgeted by this activity. We think that's what we should say. Our faction believes that the issue of children of war is really relevant, and at the point, if I'm not betrayed, the 12 proposals of the budget committee are reflected here, and that's a good thing, that's where it's funded, that's the law. As far as the other's concerned. There is a fundamental question for us, paragraph six. I think there's something wrong with us. This is a fraction of the redistribution through the gross product budget. It says here: not more than 30 percent. I want to tell you that England, France, and other countries have within 40 percent of the redistribution. And in a poor country like Ukraine, leaving behind funding for education, science, medicine, pensions, other things is very, very difficult. So we have to save all the social gains, increase the costs and write, if we're already putting this rule in, if we can't avoid it, write at least 30-35 percent. In fact, it would be desirable to raise this point to 40 percent. With regard to the decision in paragraph 5, about the activities of parks, priority areas, and so forth. We think it's different to write this point here. Indeed, this paragraph should not be a place where huge costs are being washed, and it should be spent, as we have now written in a series of park laws, where no funds are being allocated, specific projects are being considered, and specific funds are being provided from the budget, which is being tested through the CPR, through other bodies supporting the innovation project. It's not that we don't pay VAT and that's why billions of dollars come out of the budget. So we made our proposals for, for, for. And another thing, I'm glad that Mikola Janovich Azarov said that we're not going to change the status of the budgetary organizations of our VUZs, because our estimates show that the price of this issue is 1.5 billion extra money on the parents' shoulders for the increase in pay for learning. We can't let that happen. The socialists are proposing to take the basis for these refinements that I've been talking about with these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u67	Thank you. Plaštinsky Volodymyr Mikhajlovich. Grigorovich will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u68	Vladimir Plaštinski, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Mr. President, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting had previously considered the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2007. In recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the specified document as a basis, I would like to point out the following: the committee members drew attention to the inadequacy of the budget resolution to the requirements of the budget code. According to members of the committee, the main projected macroeconomic and social development indicators are underestimated and are therefore subject to review. This conclusion can be drawn on the basis of, in fact, the first half of 2006. Despite the fact that the document contains a position on real economic sector development, achieving macroeconomic stability, ensuring fair state policy, but the project does not have specific, clear proposals for filling the income part to implement the stated provisions. The document does not define the main economic risks, both internal and external, that Ukraine expects next year. In particular, it's an increase in gas prices, electricity, a change in prices for individual export groups. In general, there is no forecast of price dynamics for 2007. The need to address the social protection of the population is left out of the question when energy prices rise rapidly. Committee members believe that the economic and social development parameters established for 2007 show that the budget is under-social. So if in 2005, when GDP grew by 2.6, the average monthly wage grew by 20%, 2006 forecasted 2.8 and 13 respectively, 2007 projected GDP growth by 4.2 and the average monthly wage by 6.7 with a consumer price index rising by 10%. It is fair to note the reality that the government has not been able to draw up and submit all the necessary bills, and that Parliament should consider and accept them in general for consideration. The State Budget project will be as usual, and changes to laws will be considered at the same time as the budget. Furthermore, it would be desirable to have an expert assessment of the nature of the projected legislative changes and their impact on the economy of Ukraine, including the budgetary system. In view of the foregoing, the Economic Policy Committee proposes to adopt the Budget Resolution as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u69	Thank you. Grigorovich. Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u70	Lila Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I would like to start my speech by moving away from the words of Mikli Janović, who said literally the following: “Filling this budget has already failed.” Of course, I don't agree with this thesis, because in the middle of the year, GDP growth was 5%, in the last month it was 7. And if anyone wants to know how massive the budget is, I want to say that the actual revenue to the budget is increased, the collection of the added cost tax has increased. And what I'm going to say is, literally on Saturday, I was on the border of the Russian Federation's Kharkiv and Belgrade regions, so on our pensions, we're even, on our children's payments, our Ukraine is ahead. For example, if Russia pays for a child under three years of age -- 100 rubles a month -- you know very well what payments we have for children under three years of age in Ukraine. In view of this, I strongly disagree with the fact that filling this budget is already a failure, but it, her, God, can be a failure if we vote on the Budget Resolution, paragraph five and six, which deals with free economic zones. What are these zones? As before, in 2003-2004, when all internal taxes were released, and why, with so much GDP, we voted on the minimum wage, remember, 237 and then voted on 205 bracelets because it wasn't enough. Do you know why that was? But because all the money was coming out of these local offshores. So I want to know what the free economic zones are going to be, because if they're the same, we're actually going to have a failed budget, because it's going to be eliminated through these free economic zones from 12 billion to 14 billion dollars. At the same time, I would like to point out that if this is another tax option, let's say this should be worked out and noted, or let's make a special investigation commission right here to monitor how and how these free economic zones work. And, literally, to the end. Dear colleagues, we have indeed voted on quite a number of social bills in 2004-2005. Not only the children of war, but both children and all Ukrainian citizens should not feel the impact of paragraphs 5 and 6 on Ukraine’s budget, for otherwise it will really be a failure. Therefore, we support the first reading of the Budget Resolution without paragraphs 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u71	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. Catherine Samolik of the faction will be speaking now, please. Article 24 of the Rules gives her the right or 34.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u72	I would like to emphasize once again, and I would like to address you again, the head of the budget committee with the proposal that came up with the issue. In fact, perhaps the entirely random decision of our committee, the Committee on Science and Education, was not fixed in the commission, not in the proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This applies to section 3, paragraph 5, the reform of the budget area of the basic budget policy. The reform of the higher education sector has been set up, including through the preparation and transition from higher education to a system of government fees for the preparation of contractual and competitive experts, while at the same time providing such institutions with greater economic autonomy, which can be practically treated, and this is, indeed, like the abolition of the status of budgetary institutions. This is what this chapter says, as well as in the explanatory note, and that is why we are addressing our Committee on Budgets and the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we really need to clear this paragraph and only then vote in the first reading and adopt the draft budget resolution. I note that the changes proposed by the Government to the higher education institutions by transferring their status of budgetary institutions to the status of recipients of budgetary resources can not only lead to changes in the financial mechanisms and their interaction with the chief budget manager, but also to changes in the entire educational environment, as well as the socio-economic development of our state. Firstly, it is a risk of non-compliance with article 53 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which guarantees the right of citizens free of charge to obtain higher education in public and municipal educational institutions on a competitive basis. And I don't understand why this very article of the Constitution is being ignored. And secondly, the risk of violating article 22, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that when new laws are adopted or changes are made to existing laws, changes to existing laws are not allowed to narrow down changes and the scope of existing rights and freedoms. Such risks, indeed, are set out in the draft budget resolution and so we suggest that they be excluded because the mentioned could lead to an uncontrollable, unjustified closure of a number of higher education institutions and a sharp increase in social tension in the country. I think we're going to do this today at the meeting and these items, and we're going to exclude these paragraphs from the draft budget resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u73	Thank you. Time is up for discussion. Please, Mikola Janovich, do you have any? He gives up the closing word. Victor Mikhailovich asks for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u74	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! Regarding the last talk, I would like to explain. Dear friends! Do not seek out what is not in the budget resolution. Because the second day I hear about the change in the status of budgetary institutions. There is no change in the status of budgetary institutions in the draft budget resolutions. So please don't speculate on this. Vuzes, medical institutions, as were budgetary organizations, remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u75	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich, for explaining, I think this will be useful for both our deputies and our listeners. So there was one proposal. She was also on the Conciliation Council, and they also came out of the fact that, given all the comments that were made here in the hall by all of the speakers, we need to take this project as a basis, that is, in the first reading. And to allow after hearing a report from the Cabinet of Ministers on budget implementation last year to adopt this budget resolution on Thursday. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decision for adopting it in the first reading. Please. [[17:37:26]] For 271. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party - 183, Yulia Timoshenko Block - 3, Our Ukraine - 33, Ukrainian Socialist Party - 31, Communists - 21. Announcing the issue of ratification. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Verbensky Mikhailo Georgievicz. How long do you need? Five minutes to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u76	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons is proposed. The project envisions the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons. The Agreement is designed to regulate the transfer and acceptance of illegal migrants, the identification of competent authorities. In Ukraine, this is the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Administration of State Border Services. Turkey is the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Special Security Service. Set execution times for a person's installation, etc. Readmission is the transfer and admission of aliens and stateless persons who have illegally entered the territory of a State of one party, directly, with the territory of a State of the other party. The strategic task for Ukraine is to make readmission agreements with all the neighbouring states, one of which is Turkey. In 2005, 50 illegal migrants from Turkey were found in Ukraine, 47 of whom were returned to their homeland. In the first half of this year, 34 and 33, respectively. For the time being, one of the priorities of the opposition to illegal migration for Ukraine is to make bilateral readmission agreements with countries of origin of illegal migration and countries of transit. The implementation of the agreement will contribute to the creation of legal conditions, effective cooperation between the contracting parties. Lets shorten the detention of illegal migrants in Ukraine, simplify procedures for the confirmation of a person and the deportation of illegal migrants from both Turkish citizens and from other countries who have illegally arrived in Ukraine from the territory of the Republic of Turkey. This will save the budget allocated to measures aimed at the forced production of foreigners. The implementation of this law will not result in additional financial and material costs. All costs will be incurred in order and within the limits of the funds foreseen by the state budget of Ukraine. Ukraine's draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons has been drafted in accordance with paragraph (b) of the second section of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, which states that Ukraine's international agreements relating to the rights, freedoms and duties of man and citizen are subject to ratification by the Supreme Council. In accordance with the Act, the ratification of international treaties is carried out through the adoption of the Law on Ratification. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u77	Is there a question for the reporter? Please, because there is only one question in the Udovenko, the Deputy Udovenko “Our Ukraine”. Please. Gennady Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u78	Thank you. I'm happy with the report, the offer. I think the report is meaningful and everyone, I hope, understand. What readmission and execution are, practical arrangements are already being implemented. I support the ratification proposal. But I have a question. After all, the most problematic state for us in terms of readmission is Russia. That's why I have a question for you. Are they negotiating with the appropriate authorities of the Russian Federation on readmission, considering that Russia is our closest neighbour and we have a specific relationship with Russia at the same time. What is the point of a possible agreement with the Russian Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u79	Thank you for asking, Gennady Josephovich. Yes, with Russia, negotiations have been held and such a treaty is being prepared for signature. We're ready to sign it. It's on the Russian side when they define the term.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u80	Any more questions? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. Vitali Jakovitch Šibko, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has a report, please. How long do you need? Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u81	The Socialist faction is fast. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to say that this is not a simple question and a decision has been made to recommend it for adoption by the Supreme Council. You have just heard a very good report on the need for this. I just want to draw my colleagues' attention to what. Amisia is primarily carried out with the financial support of that country where they came from. I mean, this is very useful to us because it's the kind of deal we can use to get illegals back on the financial side of the country where these illegals came from. Today. I want to report that we already have such agreements with Georgia, with the Swiss Republic, with Turkmenistan, with Bulgaria, with Uzbekistan, with Moldova. And there was a question about Russia. I answer that we are now negotiating with SND countries with such countries as Azerbaijan, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan. Today, an intergovernmental agreement with Belarus is at its final stage, and similar negotiations are being held with other countries in order to reach an agreement. And what I want to say is, really, this is a very important question for us, if you talk about last year, is that in 2005, about 12,000 illegals were evicted from the state, 1,808 people were forced into the force order, and during the same corresponding period in 2004, 12,000 and, that is, 2200 people were forcibly expelled. As you can see, our country is transitive today, and the more we have similar agreements, the more appropriate it will be to work more decently in this case in order not to have such people in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-24-m0.u82	No questions to Vitali Yakovitch? None. Have a seat, please. Will we discuss this project? There are no willing ones to participate. Obviously, the report and the report were convincing, and the Law on the Ratification of the Treaty must be adopted. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons as a whole is on the vote. There's a vote coming. [[17:46:37]] For 287 Decision taken. The factions? Please use fractions: Region Party – 183, Block Timoshenko – 33, sorry, three, Our Ukraine – 47, Socialist Party of Ukraine – 33, Communists – 21. Dear fellow MPs, we have exhausted the agenda for today. I'm calling tonight's session closed. The session will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good for you.
