ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Please prepare for registration, MPs. A roll call is being made. [[10:04:53]] There are 447 national deputies ready for work. The morning session is open. Dear friends! It's Energy Day. Let us welcome the workers in this field, for it is one of the key economics, in society at large, to their success, good and health. Let's give it up. [[Applause]] On Sundays, archival workers, too, take up an important sector in social relations. Let's welcome them too, wish them success in their work. [[Applause]] Thank you. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Deputies: Šibko, Suhi, Svašas to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on failure to execute the decision of the Darnitsky District Court of Kiev of June 1, 2006 on the renewal of Pedchenk Timur Viktorovic as Deputy Minister of Health since March 21, 2005, which has gained legal power. Vladimir BONDAR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding violations of the Ukrainian law on State Service in the appointment of officials of the State Tax Administration in the Sumskie region. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the determination of the position of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the decision of the Zacarpathian District Council on the admission to the joint ownership of the territorial communities of entire property complexes, a sanatorium of trade unions. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Zaporozhye District Authority on the long-standing gravity of the solution to the damage caused by the fire in the Jadechemics in the village of Mala Bilozerka in the Basil region of Zaporez Region. Groups of deputies to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for Repayment of Remuneration for Employees in State-owned Enterprises of the State Enterprise Tebutsklo, State Enterprise “Autosklo”, Bondareva, State Enterprise “Zitlobudsservis”, Constantine State Vetsandzad vestinovka d.o.o. [[COMAR, ISAIAH, RADIA, AND OTHER]] Mikli SIVULSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klav for his dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request to refuse to purchase a national stock company Naftogaz Ukraine's closed-circuit company UkrGazenergo natural gas for the needs of municipal heating at higher prices. Also, Mikoli SIVULSKI to Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Kluva for his dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for the status of the preparation and signing of inter-government protocols for the sixth and seventh years regarding transit security, natural gas supplies. Ruslan LUKJANČUKA to the Attorney General in connection with the unsatisfactory response to the parliamentary appeal to the Kiev city head Leonid Chernevski of compensation for the unification of the joint owners of Kiev’s apartment buildings in tariffs for residential and utility services. SVEITAL ALIENICA to the Attorney General for delay in making a procedural decision regarding corruption schemes in the construction of a shelter at the Chernobyl nuclear station. The Group of Deputies to the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, is temporarily acting as the first deputy head of the Security Service Valentin Natvajchenka, head of the General Audit Office for possible abuse of office and other violations of current legislation at the age of 3.4 by the leadership of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. [[GRIGOROVIC, HIRNIK and others, only 12 deputies]] Deputies to the Attorney General in connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding the violation of housing legislation while receiving residence as the first deputy prosecutor of Odessa City, Sergey Danilini, and the decision of the Odessa District Prosecutor’s Board of Prosecutors regarding the possibility of Danilín’s continuing in office. [[COURSE, DELIVER, AND OTHERS — Only 15 MPs]] SASA to the Attorney General's Office to ensure that the law is respected when a criminal case is investigated on the grounds of the crime provided for in article 202 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Olga BODNAR to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the misconduct of law enforcement officials. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Industrial Policy on the non-implementation of the Ministry of Industrial Policy of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since August 10, 4th, No. 575 on the transfer of state-owned enterprises belonging to the administration of the Ukrbudmateriali Corporation. The Group of Deputies to the Minister of Coal to review the problem of the restoration of the social infrastructure of the city of Dørjinsk Donetsk region and to provide an answer to the essentially asked question. [[DEMIDKO, COMAR and others – only 5 deputies]] Vassil SILZENK to the Minister of the Interior for the violation of the current legislation of the reorganization of the Tetian Interhouse Combustion Plant. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Minister of Environmental Protection on the violation by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of terms for the examination of materials and the granting of licences for the geological study of raw materials to the consumer society Kahelina of the city of Calus Ivano-Frankiv region. Alexander KEMENYASH, head of the State Property Fund, on the determination of the position of the State Property Fund regarding the decision of the Zacarpathian District Council on the joint ownership of the territorial communities of entire property complexes, the sanatoriums of the trade unions. Alexia Radziewski to the prosecutor of the Lviv region about the illegal and unlawful actions of members of the Lviv militia. Andrija PINCHUKA to the Rector of Taras Shevchenk, Kyiv National University, for information on the use of redistributed funds — eight million dollars — by Taras Shevchenk, Kyiv National University in 2006. Dear colleagues, you have a list of issues that are being asked for consideration today. We approach them. And the first is the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on additional measures to protect human rights in criminal proceedings]] Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about, as we know, December 14th of this year, a bill passed as a whole as a Ukrainian law on the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code, which regulates the prosecution of a criminal offence in court. But I would like to remind you that there has been a vote in favour of the amendment of the Lukyanchuk People’s Deputy, which provided for an exemption from the law of the possibility of an additional inspection mechanism. It's a progressive idea, it's made, it's decided by the Supreme Council. But there are two references to this solution in the text of the law. And at this point, it is necessary, through the mechanism of the 126th article of the Rules, to clarify the text before it is signed, because the text of the law after the amendment has been voted on has been inconsistent. So there is a request to support the decision to exclude from the text of the law the position of part two, part two, article twenty-two, article two-six, and part three, part three, article 382 to execute for the correct state of the text, the final text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, focus, please. We voted with you on the Law 1096 amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on additional measures and the protection of human rights in criminal proceedings. During our consideration of the bill, we took into account the law of a colleague named Lukyanchuk. But the two other amendments that are related have not yet been taken into account, that is, after you have considered one amendment and have taken one article away, we have left two others that would be contrary to what we have voted on. So I'm voting on the deletion of part 22 of article 236-8 and part three of article 382 of bill 1096. Please vote. [[10:15:27]] For 343 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff is under consideration. [[on customs duties on horse alcohol]] Registration number 2101. Report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, the Banking Activities of Svašaš Dmitro Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you read the second draft amendment to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. [[on customs duties on horse alcohol]] I want to report that there have been 3 amendments to the profile committee, all included. The amendment of the people’s deputy Kruglov is included in the next edition for the transcript. In the Law of Ukraine on the collection for the development of grapes, vegetables and hops, in articles 1 and 2 add the words “gross-cut” to the words “except the producers of this product within their own production”. Please support me in my second reading and in general. Thank you. The Minister's office supports the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Let's see, the first one is counted, the second one is counted. Yeah, yeah. It's all accounted for. There can be no question. Here's the motive for the vote, please. Yes, have a seat, please. Sign up if you want to make a statement. In a minute. Please, Shamanov, “Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u6	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give the deputy Lazko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u7	I thought he was gone. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u8	Thank you. Thank you for giving me the word. Well, I'd like a second reading, but, of course, Yulia Timoshenko's Block won't vote in favour of this bill, because he's been reported to the entire parliament by a deputy, who usually, whatever he reports, is always about money. And by the way, money that usually goes, not to the budget, but to the known pockets. That is why we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u9	Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u10	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, we believe, socialists, that the law must be upheld. The bottom line is that you can't stop the branches that work. But we have, and I have, in particular, one such warning. Very often, laws apply to customs tariffs for imports of brandy alcohol or, say, excise duties and so forth. They change very often. Over the course of one year, there are several times. I think we should take this problem seriously and write it once and for all, no matter who. Because large monopolistic manufacturers of horse products, when they need this alcohol, go to law, but at the same time small producers suffer from it. Thus, we feel that the law must be upheld, but it must be written in the future so that we do not change it five times a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u11	You totally heard me. Falco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u12	Honorable National MPs. With horse alcohol, it's clear. But there's still some wine to be brought out of there. Pasteur said that if you want to drink good wine, you need to plant and produce, plant, and grow grapes and make wine yourself. What happens to our winemakers if the bets are zero now? Where are they going to get their own supplies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act “To Change the Customs Tariff of Ukraine” on customs duties on horse alcohol”. Registration number 2101. Please vote. [[10:20:33]] For 252 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Laws on State Enforcement and on Executive Conduct on Reform of State Executive Services, Second Reading, Registration Number 2565 is under consideration. Reported the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Eugene Petrovich Kushnarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, on December 20th of this year, the committee discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukrainian Laws on State Enforcement and on Implementation of the Reform of State Enforcement Authorities, registration number 2565, and introduced this bill in a second reading. On December 20, 13 proposals from Ukraine’s national deputies, Boris Bespalogo, Knjazević, Korniychuk, Pisarenko, Lyashko, came to the committee. The committee included 9 proposals, 2 proposals rejected, 2 withdrawn during the meeting by the author of the proposal. The committee's decision to adopt bill 2565 proposes that the Supreme Council be adopted in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u15	Thank you, Eugene Petrovich. Yeah, let's do some repairs. Amendment one, Bespalic, please. Now, now, Eugene Petrovich, first Bespallian, then comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u16	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Well, there's a little bit of a violation of the principle of power distribution, because my point of view is that court conduct ends with a court decision. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry is a clear political element. So I'm just going to give an example of what happens when the political authorities do the executive work. For decades, there has been a shop called Art, which has enjoyed the Chinese, all the Ukrainians and guests of our country. And in the winter of 2004, this store was thrown into the street very brutally, along with a national MP, who there was, therefore, a right to defend it. Then the press reported that there was a sad news server that faked the second round of elections. The Henprosecutor's Office is silent on some of this, and there have been no objections. This is what it means to give executive direction to the political structure. That's why I'm asking, that's why I'm against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the point of view of the transfer of the executive service to the branch of power has the right to exist, discussed in the committee, but the Supreme Council passed a law on the first reading with a different concept, so we no longer have the right to change the concept. Thus, Boris Bespalogo and Knyazevich were rejected by the amendment committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u18	I'll take the vote on the amendment. You don't have to? No, it's not. It's coming off. Yes. The second amendment of Korniychuk. Dear colleagues, let it be. Wait, please. Let the authors of the amendments agree with each other. We listened to the author of the amendment, and I'm not giving it because it's one amendment and he withdrew the vote. Do you want us to vote? One author shoots, the other insists. Good thing there's no scandal, come on. Who's in favour of accepting the first amendment, please make up your mind. [[10:24:45.]] For-83 Not supported. The second amendment of Korniyczuk, Pisarenko, is included. There's no objection. Cornichuk the third is partially accounted for. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Cornichuk 4, 5. 6 accounted for. Is there no objection? None. 7 The Korniychuka is rejected. Don't insist. 8 Cornichuca, 9, 10 accounted for. I can't deny it. 11 Cornichuka is rejected, does not insist. 12 accounted for by Korniychuk. 13 Mildness — What Is It? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u19	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Eugene Petrovich, I do not propose to change the concept of the law, but to change the terms. The bill in article 35, paragraph 5, proposes to provide for the right of a public executioner to stop executions, not from filing a complaint against a public executioner, but from the time of its adoption. But these terms differ significantly from the point of view of the origin of a legal fact at a time and thus the substitution of the legal fact is effected. That's the first one. What I have proposed to put into effect this law since January 1, 2008, because, as the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council notes, it is worth taking advantage of the experience of other countries in the search for the optimal model of the organization of the executive service. And it takes time. Since the change in the place of the additions, the amount does not change. We've changed this law in 2005, we're changing it again. But more importantly, that's what I'm talking about with the changes to article 35, paragraph 5, where not since the submission
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u20	Please, Eugene Petrovich. The thought of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u21	The amendment of the 13th People's Deputy Laska refers to a change in the deadline for the entry into force of this law. There's nothing else. We considered the amendment carefully and rejected it from the following circumstances. The findings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues have made it clear that the implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget. The State Budget Act, which you and I adopted for the year 2007, provides for the maintenance of the State Executive Service. Hence, no additional expenses are needed. Thus, the amendment of the People’s Deputies by the Committee was unanimously rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I'll add one more. Well, maybe it's clear that maybe he didn't make it or maybe just a colleague didn't get to know him. A group of people's deputies have submitted and registered a bill on what you're talking about. Taking into account the foreign experience of handing over this service to the Supreme Court. So we'll be looking at this initiative in the near future. Don't you insist on voting? He insists. I'll put the 13th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:28:21]] For-81 Not accepted. In general, I am adopting the Law on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine on State Enforcement and on Implementing Implementation on Reforming the Authorities of the State Executive Service. Registration number 2565. Please vote. [[10:28:55]] For 268. The law is passed. Thank you, Eugene Petrovich. There is a draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. Registration number 2473. Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Panasovski Oleg Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, allow me to brief you very briefly on this subject. In 2005, the TEC developed circumstances of an insurmountable nature. The crisis was based on the problem of mutual debt, which had developed over the entire period since 1991, for the main reasons such as the low level of energy users'calculation for the non-payment crisis in Ukraine, the growth of barter operations, the lack of sources of financing for energy efficiency benefits consumed by budgetary organizations, and the lack of compliance with the level of electricity tariffs with the actual costs. The amounts owed by TEC enterprises were commensurate with the annual volume of products and services they produce. Mutual debts and non-payments in TEC provoked the bankruptcy of executive production. In the process of bankruptcy, almost all major energy companies were in possession of sanitation or property management. In order to stabilize the financial situation in the country's energy economy, the Supreme Council adopted a law providing for mechanisms for the repayment of mutual debt and the introduction of a moratorium on bankruptcy of entities in TEC with limited duration. The law played a positive role. By not adopting such a law, the State had virtually lost control of the situation in the country's energy sector and in the TEC as a whole. For a number of objective reasons related to the establishment of a register of TEC enterprises, the frequent replacement of Governments, limited by the duration of the law, has not fully met the objectives of the Act. The Technology and Nuclear Security Task Force, together with Minenergo, analysed the structural schemes for the repayment of creditors and receivables of TEC enterprises. Conclusion. The time left before the law was terminated is insufficient and does not allow the law to be fully used to improve the financial and economic situation of TEC enterprises. The Committee and the Mintopenergo consider it appropriate and essential to extend the Act for one year, that is, until 1 January 2008. The full implementation of the Act on Measures to Ensure the Sustainable Functioning of TEC Enterprises, No. 2473, will prevent the bankruptcy of TEC enterprises, exclude attempts to redistribute property. The law should not be interrupted. The non-adoption of this law will cause serious socio-economic consequences. We must vote with you in favour of extending this law for one year. The Profile Committee requests the MP Corps to vote in favour of our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's an amendment from a colleague of Panasovski who's listed here, but I'd like to talk to you at this point. I would ask you not to take this amendment into account, but to write that this law has been in force since the day it was published. Because if we write from January 1st, we don't know when it's going to get to the President and so on, and there are rules in the Constitution that can give the President a basis for vetoing this law. I mean, from the day of the publication as predicted. If we took it about a month ago, then we could write from January 1. Lies down, Grigorovitch, don't you mind? Because anyway, once again, we can write January 1st, but it won't be published January 1. So from the moment it's published, when it's published, it goes into effect. Let me, with this amendment, vote on the adoption of the whole Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, registration number 2473. Please vote. Sit down, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u25	I turn to our Ukraine and to the BIT, support a state-important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u26	They'll back you up, sit down. [[10:33:42]] For 268. The law was passed with the amendment that we said would come into force on the day of publication. The factions? Please. 184 – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko – 7, Our Ukraine – 26, Socialists – 27, Communists – 19, non-fractional – 5. A draft law on technopolis "Kievska Politechnika", registration number 0928, is under consideration, headed by the Committee on Science and Education, Yuri Vasilovich Karakai. I don't see him. Then let's go to the repairs. First Samuel's correction counted, second Karakai counted in part, third Samuel counted. Is there no objection? Four, five counted, six counted. [[Smiling]] Yes, please, Yuri Vasilovich, give us a few words about working on the bill and we'll go over the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u27	The Honourable Head and Honourable People's Deputies, for your consideration in the second reading, are presented a bill on the scientific park “Kievska Politechnika”. He was accepted in the first reading as a former member of the Supreme Council. I will point out that, as early as 2004, the decree of the President of Ukraine of the Cabinet of Ministers had given orders for the drafting of the relevant bill. However, the Cabinet of Ministers did not initiate his preparations. The bill is aimed at intensifying the process of creating, implementing and manufacturing high-tech products based on the development of the National Technical University of Kiev, as well as a number of other participants in innovation. This is about creating conducive organizational conditions for the activation of innovation and the inclusion of university science and studentism in these processes. This will contribute to improving their innovative culture, engaging in scientific activities, and making practical use of knowledge. On the other hand, students are already in an effective position at the learning stage to implement their creative designs in the form of concrete innovation projects with the prospect of future employment. For the first time in Ukraine's modern history, a mechanism will be implemented to improve the efficiency of scientific activities and the quality training of professionals using the “Education, Science, Production” model. I will point out that the Kiev Institute of Technology is the largest technical university in Ukraine, well known in Ukraine and the world. He has significant scientific achievements, he has active innovation policies, and he needs to create appropriate enabling conditions in this regard. Another important task of the bill is that, for example, this University of Technology can work out the framework conditions and then adopt the law and distribute this positive experience to the country's leading technical and other branches. What is involved in the drafting of the bill? Some 30 comments were received. For their work, a working group was set up, consisting of national deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, government departments, and intelligence, and Kiev’s technicians. In the process of work, all the suggestions that have come are carefully considered and taken into account. The amended bill has changed the name “technopolis” to “scientific park”, which is more consistent with the world experience and the substance of such a structure, as well as a clear boundary and separates the proposed type of innovation from the special innovation zones. I'm sorry, economic zones. The aids contained in the project are also excluded by regrouping part of the articles. The bill presented to you was accepted and received support from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee on Science and Education at its meeting considered the bill and unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it in a second reading and generally as a law drafted by the Committee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u28	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, let's go with the amendments. We're going to need 1 amendment to Catherine Samuel's vote, it's counted, but it's really about changing the name of the law. In the first edition, we called it “the technopolis of Kiev Politechnics. ” I think it's absolutely right that it's not entirely Ukrainian or it's not Ukrainian at all to replace it with a clear “Kievska Politechnika” science park. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please be supportive. [[10:38:51]] For 365 The name of the law has been changed, and we did the right thing. The second amendment, Karacaia, partly considered, is about the science park. The bike's accounted for, no one's denying it. Four, Karakai, accounted for, I don't see any objection. Fifth, Samuel, accounted for, no objection Six, Smitch, accounted for. No one's denying it. Same seven, Smitty, counted. The eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh Carcaias are counted. Is there no objection? I can't see. Twelve, thirteen, Carcay, accounted for. The 14th and 15th, Smith, are counted. No one's denying it. Yes, 16th Amendment, Martinyuka, accounted for. I don't see any objections. Garbage, 17th, no objection. Eighteen, Martinyuk, accounted for. There's no objection. Karakai, 19, no. Twenty, Martinyuk. The twenty-first doesn't exist either. Twenty-two, Samuel, accounted for. There's no objection. Powder, 23rd, accounted for. I don't see any remarks. Twenty-fourth, Karakai, accounted for. Twenty-five counts, Samuel. Dusty, 26th, 27th and 28th Dusts are all accounted for. No one's denying it. Karakai, 29th, accounted for. Thirty is Odysnik, 31st, Homutinika, and 32nd, Odysnik, accounted for. And the 33rd, Karacaia, is counted. So all the amendments made by the national MPs are included. None of your colleagues have any comments, no objections? I can't see. Then I put to the vote: on the adoption of the whole Law number 0928, which now bears the title “On the Science Park of Kiev Polytechnics”, please vote. [[10:41:29]] For 391 Copy that. Yuri Vasilovich, I thank you and the committee for drafting the bill, which has not found any warning. I think let's do this pilot project, see how one of the best units works. And then we can adopt the whole basic Law. I'm glad you've supported my initiative since the previous call. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code is under consideration. [[on the harmonization of standards with the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code]] [[resecond reading]] Registration number 0903. First Deputy Head of Legal Policy Committee Korniychuk Evgen Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u29	Honourable Chairman, Honorary Fellows, Legal Policy Committee to implement the Supreme Council ruling of 2 November this year, which was further elaborated on a second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The project is aimed at settling differences between some of the provisions of the Family Code and the Civil Code and at resolving differences between the individual norms of the Ukrainian Family Code. During the drafting of the bill, a number of proposals were made to the committee in a second reading, and a large number of them were taken into account. In particular, improved and worked institutions????? on the recognition of marriage as invalid, the cases and the order of annulment of the marriage and the annulment of the marriage as invalid by decision of the court. Leaving RAGs behind the decision to terminate the marriage is a legal fact that the marriage is terminated. In addition, the decision to terminate the marriage is the basis for his State registration. Article 153 on the unhindered right of parents to communicate with their children has also been improved, except in cases where such a right is restricted by law. In view of the fact that the bill has been carefully worked by a working group with representatives from the People's Deputies of Karpachev, other National Deputies, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the General Legal Administration of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting on 20 November 2006 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it adopt a second reading and a draft law amending the Ukrainian Family and Civil Code. Registration number 0903. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u30	Thank you, Eugene Volodymyrovich. Yes, dear fellows, we approach the consideration of the amendments. The first amendment, Korniychuk Bespali, is counted. It still needs to be voted on because it is here that colleagues propose to make changes to the name. In our first reading, we considered making changes to the Family Codex. It is proposed to complement “and the Civilian”. That is, “To amend the Family and Civil Code of Ukraine”. I'm putting this amendment to the vote, to change the name of the law. Please vote. [[10:45:13]] For 309 I've got it, I've got it, I've got it. So we changed the name and added the Civil Code. Cornichuk, two, count. There's no objection. Third, Korniychuk, accounted for. Fifth, Korniyczuk, is counted. The sixth is incompetence. Please, Boris Jakovitch. Don't insist. Cornychuk, number seven, accounted for. Carpathian, eight. Please. No, it doesn't. Infants, 9th, rejected. Don't insist. The platinum, the tenth, is rejected. Don't insist. Onopenko. Well, I can't insist anymore. Cornychuk, 12, accounted for. Cornychuk, 13th count. Carpathian, 14th. Don't insist. Hell, the 15th is a no-brainer. Carpathian, 16th partially counted. 17 is the same thing. 18th, Hellcat turned down, no insistence. Cornychuk, 19th count. 20th, Carpathian's down. Don't insist. Cornychuk, 21st and 22nd, 23rd and 24th accounted for. I don't see any objection. Carpathian, 25th rejected. Please, Nina Ivanovna's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Article 39, a marriage that is invalid, is being amended. The problem is that marriage fails to produce legal consequences – alimony in particular, the right to name, change of place of residence and so on. So I think I need to take into account the amendment that I made, because in fact only a court can question the witnesses, not the RAGs, as we're told. And only a court can examine documents when it establishes that marriage is invalid. A worker’s error can lead to human rights violations, such as child support rights and so forth. And the last argument. Article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine clearly defines the status of the judiciary. In this article, we are invited, unfortunately, to refer the role of court to the authorities of RAGS. That's why I insist on my amendment. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u32	Please, committee, opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u33	Since you have already agreed, dear Nina Ivanovno, that the RAGS authorities can also establish the fact that a marriage is terminated if the parties do not object to this, I propose that this amendment be rejected. We understand that if there are differences in the approach or position of the parties to the breakup, they will certainly have to appeal to the court in one way or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u34	Vote. Minust, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u35	We support the committee's proposal, because in this case it's about facts that don't need proof, and in the next article it's about cases where marriage breaks up in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u36	I think Nina Ivanovna, I'm going to put it to a vote, but I'm going to put it literally. Perhaps, indeed, if there are no, well, objections on both sides, they are peacefully diversified and issued with a corresponding document, there may be no need to get involved in the judicial burden. Another matter is that when the decision is made by the body that has taken the decision, one party is not satisfied, then let it refer to the court. The committee must have done the right thing, but Nina Ivanovna insists, so I'm voting on Carpathian's 25th amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:49:36]] For 203 Not supported. Please, the 26th Korniczuk is accounted for, 27th Karpachev, please. Don't you insist, Nina Ivanovna? 27th Amendment to 40 Articles? Don't insist. Cornychuk 28 counts, Onopenko, yes, Carpathian 30th amendment rejected. Don't insist. Cornichuk is counted. 32nd Carpachov rejected. Neither did I. The incompetence of the 35th is rejected. Don't insist. Tarasov 36th accounted for. Cornichuk is counted. The prince is listed in part in the 38th. Don't insist. Cornichuk is counted. Carpathian 40 is rejected. The incompetence of the 41st is rejected. Don't insist. Yes, taken into account. Carpathian 47 is rejected. 47, please. Nina Ivanovna's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the 47th amendment is touching the fact that it has been terminated. By following the same pattern of law, marriage registration should take place both in the application and in the presence of young people. In fact, we are offered to break up a marriage without the presence of a marriage. That is, a decree is made and, if even youths who have quarreled over a month and then have forgotten. In general, the fact that a marriage has been filed is equal to the RAGS decision and the marriage will be terminated. They may continue to be married, but they will not know. So I'm asking for an analogy of the law to vote on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u38	Please, Eugene Volodymyrovich, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u39	We remember that the law provides that marriage can be broken up in the absence of sides. You realize that people can travel and at the same time give the commission to represent their interests in the RAGS. Physically, it is also often impossible if people are deprived of opportunities, temporarily deprived of the possibility of being in the organs of the RAGS. So I think this amendment is discriminatory and I ask it not to support it. Minust?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u40	We support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u41	Yes. Please, I'll bet you a vote. I am voting on the proposal of 47 Nina Ivanovna Karpachov. We can support her, I think. We need to be very careful about breaking up a marriage. [[10:52:41.]] For 239. It's a readjustment. Yeah, 48 counts. 49th Carpathian, no insistence. Hellhound 51st, don't insist. Cornichuk, accounted for. 53rd Carpachov, overruled. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! It is this amendment that the moment of termination of the marriage, in the event of its dissolution, 114, is related to article 105, which we have just voted on. So I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u43	The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u44	Well, I suggest you support the committee's position. It is partly, indeed, related to the previous one. But we insist that only organs that have the right to break up a marriage. So we're more likely to make a reference to the first amendment that was rejected, rather than the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u45	But then I have a question. If the court has decided to break up the marriage, could it be? Who's got to register it then? Then, according to your logic, he still has to be reported broken up? And they can register a year or two. And there's already a court decision, there's no marriage. Perhaps Nina Ivanovna has logic. Please, Minust.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u46	Honorable National MPs. In practice, there are cases where the court has taken a decision, but this decision does not reach the civil registration authorities. And how can you do that? The decision was lost and the registration was denied. Therefore, it is proposed by the committee and we support the decision of the RAGS. And after that decree, marriage is considered to be broken up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u47	And these registration agencies, what department are they in?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u48	Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u49	Oh, that makes sense. Well, that makes sense. We vote in favour of Nina Ivanovna Carpathian. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u50	Adam Ivanovich, can I have a word?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u51	Yes, please take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u52	Once again, I ask you to understand, Your Honor, that the court may not decide where the RAGS is located. Anywhere in the country. And the other side of the marriage may simply not even know about the decision. There are cases like this. Hence, registration was always necessary and compulsory. This has been the norm that has been in place since Soviet times. I don't think you should change that at all. We won't find the guilty, and we won't be able to determine whether there's a man in the marriage or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u53	Nina Ivanovna, Carpathian microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u54	The case of two people is a matter of exclusive family relations. And you don't have to put it on the plane of a criminal relationship that you already have to look for. Mr. Eugene, please, this article is related to 105 articles. 105 won't exist without 114. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u55	We're voting for the 53rd Carpathian Amendment. [[10:56:18]] For 243 Copy that. 54th Hellcat, no insistence. Carpathian 55, no insistence. Gobbler 56th. 57 is yours, 58 is not. 59th Korniychuk, partially accounted for. 60th account of Carpathian. 61st listed Korniychuk. 62nd same Korniychuk. 63 Carpachov, overruled. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u56	The amendment concerns paragraph 2: “a child born before 10 months after the termination of a marriage or its invalidity”. That's exactly what this amendment is all about. And I'm asking you to back me up. I mean, actually. This is about very serious things. Article 125, 126, they don't fit the content of article 122. Because it's not just about 10 months after the marriage is over, but it's about a general rule. So part two and part three should be considered at the same time. They are related to each other. I mean, if a child is born after the marriage is terminated, a valid article of the law forces the father of an ex - husband’s child to write down if it has not been 10 months since the marriage ended. And even if there is a person who professes to be a biological father of a child and the mother confirms it, it is my job to recognize the true father of a child. These are principled things. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u57	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u58	According to the committee, parenthood was automatically established or established if the marriage took place for 10 months. If we cancel this article, it will be impossible to establish parenthood, and the father’s consent to this act will not be possible. Well, unless you go to court and try to prove it through a court of law, that is, the children will suffer. So I'm asking you to support the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u59	I see. I'm putting a motion to the vote, please be sure. [[10:58:54]] For 230 Copy that. 64 counted. 65, 6th, Korniychuk, accounted for. Incorruptible, Knyazevich, accounted for. 70, Carpachova. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u60	I insist on 70 amendments. For example, consider the following: Parents ’ and children’s social rights. We are asked to restrict the right of parents and children to communicate in general. What is the derivative, the family code, which is the basic family constitution in family law relations, or in fact the Criminal Procedure Code and the Code of Criminal Enforcement, which we are offered to actually recognize as a basis? Instead of doing that, I think we should certainly refer to the European Convention on Human Rights, to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and so forth. So I ask you to support me and not narrow down the right of children and parents to communicate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u61	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u62	The rule of law, respected colleagues, is contrary to procedural standards in order to keep persons in places where they are deprived of their will. Special consideration should be given to cases in which parents are deprived of their will as a result of committing crimes against the same children. Clearly, if a crime is committed against this child, then the Procedural Code provides for limitations of communication, and I think the child will only get pain from communicating with such a father. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u63	Eugene Volodymyrovich, but that way the child may not agree to this kind of communication, and there will be no pain, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u64	On the contrary, I believe that if the child agrees, he will be allowed to do so. But we have the presumption that the code will restrict parental communication if the child does not want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u65	I'm voting for 70 amendments. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:01:18]] For 197 Not supported. 71st, second count. [[Cornychuk]] [[Cornychuk]] 75th overturned. [[Platinum]] Don't insist. 74th counted. Insulated, partially counted 75th, does not insist. Here we go. The 80th is rejected. [[Platinum]] Don't insist. Knyazevich, Korniychuk accounted for, Korniychuk accounted for. 85th counted. [[Cornychuk]] Eighty-six-six. Cornichuk, 88th. 89th overturned. [[Platinum]] Don't insist. Next, Korniyczuk, Tarasov accounted for. Ilyashov, 94th, counted, 5th, 6th counted. [[Cornychuk]] [[Cornychuk]] 97th overruled. [[Rocks]] Don't insist. Next, the eighth one, the ninth one is counted. Cooking Games, accounted for. Sota, Corniczuk, Corniczuk, including repairs. [[Cornychuk]] Declined from the 107th Carpathian. Don't insist. Then it's all taken into account. So, dear colleagues, we've been through all the amendments and given what we've changed, I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Family Code and Civil Code. [[Registration number 0903]] Please vote. Take down the vote. Take down the vote. Carpathian microphone. But I ask my colleagues not to be distracted, not to talk to the deputies, but to look for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The 107th amendment is related to article 114, that the decision of the court is not admissible. I'm still in organ registrar. Additionally, it does not create bureaucratic barriers for a person. So please support, it's logically connected to the 114 that we've already supported with you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u67	Not exactly connected, but. Matvienkov, please. Not really, Nina Ivanovna, she's connected. Then we'll leave it completely, excuse me, free swimming everywhere. Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u68	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. We, our faction, will not support this amendment, because we want to understand the clarity of these developments. A man must have a chance. After the court's decision, he may change his own decision, which is an additional opportunity to preserve the family. That's why these things can't be done. We're for that. Why do we adopt this code? To allow for the preservation of the family. To destroy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u69	That's absolutely right, Sergey Anatolyovich. I'm putting Amendment 107 to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:04:45]] For-12. Not supported. Yeah, no one else has any objections, huh? We can vote. Then I'll bet. Minust, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'd like that. I understand that this is not going to be a full compliance with the Rules, but I'm going back to that amendment regarding the registration of court decisions. The thing is, we're going to have marriages, and we're not going to know in a previous marriage that a broken person has been or has not been broken up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u71	Who for voting on the Carpathian amendment that we voted on, please? [[11:05:41]] For-56 We're not back. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis. Sorry about the adoption as a whole of a law amending the Ukrainian Family and Civil Code, registration number 0903. Please vote. [[11:06:10]] For 321 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Law on the Comprehensive Reconstruction of Out-of-date Housing Funds Areas, registration number 0943, is under consideration. Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill on the complex reconstruction of the out-of-date housing funds of the Supreme Council was adopted on 17 June 2005. [[microregions]] In preparation, 250 proposals were submitted to the bill, including 11 amendments to the second reading, which were processed and added to the table. In their proposals, the National MPs reflected all the acute issues and disagreements in the bill with valid legislation, including all the comments made by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. A total of 86 amendments have been taken into account, editorially and partially 77, and 87 have been rejected. The Chief Legal Authority noted that the bill does not have a separate subject of legal regulation and that its rules on the types of compensation for owners of residential premises should be contained in the Housing Code. But the Housing Code, dear friends, we don't have any, we're preparing a new edition, but we can't guarantee that it's going to be adopted in half a year or a year, and we need to start working in this direction yesterday because the housing fund is getting old and the engineering networks are wearing out. And a person's understanding of comfortable housing has long been incompatible with the dimensions of the so-called "breath". I assure you that all the basic provisions of this bill will be reflected in the new Housing Code. I would like to draw your attention to the most fundamental issues that we have been able to resolve with your help. First of all, article 12 no longer contains a standard of voluntary movers — 50 or 75 percent — and is defined. The relocation of owners, tenants of residential and non-residential buildings that are being reconstructed is done on the condition that the owners agree, in accordance with the terms of the contracts that the developer makes with each owner, the tenant of these premises. So there's not going to be any forced displacement. Another principle of change takes into account the interests of the owner. The owner of the tenant’s living room, which is on the day that the law enters into force on the home account, is granted a new dwelling, taking into account the standard of living area established by the Law. In the event of such housing, the owner of the living room, and the citizens who are registered there, are taken off the count. So we're proposing a real solution to the housing problem. Dear friends, there is no time. We should use the market environment that allows the investor today to invest in this important social sphere and start solving these problems. Our basic principle is whether we plan to deal with cartilage, or we will have to solve the emergency housing problem in extraordinary, extraordinary circumstances. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u73	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Yes, dear fellows, we will consider it in an articleistic manner. True, there are many rejected articles by colleagues who are no longer national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u74	Not with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u75	Yes, which, unfortunately, is not with us. Yes, the first amendment is gone. Fifth, there are no colleagues either. Seven, neither. The 17th, Droguncs of Sergey Ivanovich, is gone. Doroguntsov, 22nd. Gurenko 24th, Stanislav Ivanovich. 29th Long, overruled. Don't insist. It's a dragoon. Long 35th. He's a 36-year-old son of a bitch. Yes, Kirilchuk Eugene of the 50th doesn't insist. We don't have a lead anymore. The Ducks, too. 57th. Gurenko, 64th. Doroguntsov, 72nd. 86th, Droguntz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u76	Adam Ivanovich, if you please, I want to help. Radovec and Majbord, the main amendments that were made to the
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u77	Yeah. I mean, respectable colleagues, because, in fact, the law was prepared for the second reading in the previous summons. There are almost no new ones, which of the colleagues insists on an amendment that is unaccounted for or has a warning about the amendments that the committee has taken into account? There aren't any? None. What is the general warning? Nor is it. Then I vote for adoption as a whole as a law on the complex reconstruction of neighborhoods, microregions of an outdated housing fund. Registration number 0943. There was a lot of time to talk about it. Let's give the legislative base. Vote. [[11:12:27]] For 401 Especially actively, I can see that the builders were working for themselves and for that guy. Thank you, the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u78	Dear friends, thank you for your support. You and I are going to start solving this painful problem together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u79	The draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 2155, is under consideration. [[concerning the delivery of a copy of the criminal offence order]] First Deputy Head of the Justice Committee, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u80	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! Recently, you and I have come up with a pretty important law, anti-rider. And according to its significance, this law, which we now have to vote on, is not yielding to. On November 16, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code. [[concerning the delivery of a copy of the criminal offence order]] I would like to remind you that, until today, there is a situation in criminal proceedings where the authorities of investigation and investigation in the event of a criminal case against a person are not obliged to hand over a copy of the ruling to that person. Then a person cannot defend his violated right in court, since it is known that these rulings, according to the Constitutional Court’s decision and the own and the Code of Administrative Justice, may be brought before the court and dismissed. This bill amends the relevant article of the Criminal Procedure Code, in particular article 98 with the “2” badge. I would like to point out, however, that in the case of a criminal case, a prosecutor, an investigator, an authority of inquiry, or a judge is obliged to hand over copies of the relevant decision to the person who has been prosecuted and the victim immediately. The article also foresees cases where a person in a hospital or for other reasons cannot do so immediately, determine the consequences, and resolve other procedural issues involved. The Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting all the amendments made to this law, which took place on December 13, this year. They were, by the way, not many, particularly four, as well as the proposals and opinions of the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the conclusions of experts and experts. And I've come to a conclusion, and that's exactly what this decision is proposing to you -- to adopt this bill as a law as a whole. All changes that have been made are either taken into account or taken into account in an editorial way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u81	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. We're going after the repairs. The first one taken into account and could not be overlooked. Yes, Miroshnichenko, the other is the same. But part of it is rejected. You don't insist on Yuri, do you? Eugene Marmazov is listed as an editorial. Don't insist. Yeah, and that's it, the rest of them are accounted for. Yes, Deputy Interior Minister Vasil Evgenovich Marmazov. What's the Ministry's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Internal Affairs supports the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u83	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Criminal Procedure Code. [[concerning the delivery of copies of a criminal offence order]] Registration number 2155. We have a friendly vote. [[11:16:42]] For 382 Thank you. The law is passed. The Draft Law on Amendments to Article 69 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[Registration number 1247]] Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the small law, the amendments to the second reading did not come to him. The new Ukrainian Criminal Code, which came into force on September 1, 2001, divided the severity of the crimes committed into four categories: small, medium, serious, and particularly serious crimes. Article 69 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of imposing a penalty that is softer than is prescribed by law to commit more serious crimes of minor gravity, severe and particularly severe, but does not allow this to be done for crimes of minor gravity. This is what the Constitutional Court has pointed to, and it has declared to be unconstitutional, and I ask that you support the adoption of the draft as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u85	Thank you. The only thing I'm looking at is, why did we bring it up for second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u86	I'll tell you why, Adam Ivanovich, there was a misunderstanding, we almost had a fight with Mr. Slukovsky, and then he wasn't voted. No comments were made to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u87	No, it's not. Clearly, this is one part that sheds one sentence that comes from what has already been passed in other laws. Easy. Before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. You're asking why we went to the second vote. Because it's about the fate of the people. One sentence, you remember that saying: Punishes, cannot be pardoned.” Where you put it depends on what act you take. So we did very well to carefully reconcile all of these nuances in order to make people's rights better, to protect them, not to make them worse. That is why we will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u89	I don't see any improvement here, remarks, there's no improvement here.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u90	It wasn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u91	I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to Article 69 of the Criminal Code, registration number 1247. Please vote. [[11:19:36]] For 398 After working with his colleague, Lazko gained such a record number of votes. Thank you. The Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on energy conservation measures, registration number 0941, is under consideration. I mean, it's still a debt from the last session, from the last summons, I'm sorry. Third reading, Head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Oleg Grigorovich Panasovski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Noting the high energy intensity of GDP and the low energy efficiency, the main causes of the crisis in the Ukrainian economy, and noting the global trends in the development and implementation of energy-saving technologies and the search for alternatives to what is the basis of the current world economy, I reported to you last Thursday and briefly explained the need for an effective public energy management system in Ukraine and the need for legislation on domestic energy conservation policies. We have considered Law 0941, which seeks to ensure the rational use and savings of energy resources in Ukraine. There was reason to accept it as a whole, since of the 32 proposals made, 28 were taken into account. However, in the second reading discussion, disagreements arose that required revisions and clarifications of certain paragraphs of the amendments to the Act, causing it to be re-readed and re-readed. At the last meeting of the relevant committee on nuclear policy and nuclear safety in the TEC, all proposals submitted were considered and collegiate decisions were taken on each of them. We have full agreement on all paragraphs of the proposal for a law with the Cabinet of Ministers and Mintopenergo, for which there is formal written confirmation, on the rest of the table, but on the basis of the proposals rejected by the Professional Committee, an arbitrator will be required in the case of a deputy corps. A table of the amendments to the draft law is presented in the final version. The Mintopenergo and the committee in charge of the TEC supports the bill and recommends that it be adopted as a law as a whole. And I'm addressing the deputies. As a person with no evidence of opposition to the protection of public interests, this project is of great public importance and value, I ask the people's deputies to vote in favour of the decision of a special committee. Please adopt this Law 0941 as a whole. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u93	Yes. We'll follow the amendments. Amendment one. Matvienkov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u94	Well, the amendment is out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u95	Oleg Grigorovich, don't help me. For now, Matvienkov will say, and then you will be from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u96	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Oleg Grigoryevich, distinguished colleagues! First. So you can understand what's going on. For manufacturers, the system of fines for violations of energy regulations is increased by 20 times. The amount of the fine reaches the average wage per industry. So the person who operates, let's say, these objects have to pay their wages, so to speak. That's the first one. The excessive use of electricity is the second paragraph, which, so to speak, gives way to deduction. Today, we have enough power in order to use supernormal power. There are no questions. Let's load, let's pay. The only thing that was suggested here is that let's say this procedure, so let's say this is the load that we're putting on industrial enterprises today, let's get rid of it. And I ask that the amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u97	Well, if you don't mind, I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u98	Wait, please. Is Teryochin also involved? Teryohin's microphone, please, and then the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, in grave violation of the Rules, has been tabled for our consideration today. Notice, this bill introduces a new tax, which is called an energy assembly without consideration in a profile committee. This bill provides uncontrolled duties, taxes on added value and income taxes. Attacks again. This was not discussed by the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Budgets. In general, Adam Ivanovich, such bills must be scrutinized by the two committees. Moreover, we have recently adopted a budget and how this bill is incorporated into this budget is not clear either. So now it can't be considered at all in essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u100	Yes, please, the committee's opinion. This is a little out of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u101	Arguments and justification of committees. But I have already said that cheap energy has over the years taught us all how to save and improve production efficiency. The Act provides for increased fines not for the use of low-economic technical equipment that has developed its own resource but that is in service, but for unreasonable and sometimes unmanaged equipment and technology schemes that include electric motors, pumps, tractors, compressors. By the way, unauthorized use of non-project building heating schemes, buildings without authorization of the State-guyspections, which typically result in the overload of power lines and transformers. The technological schematics, here the manufacturers are sitting, the so-called power lines of water, the compressed air vapours, having huge technological losses due to the failure of the fitting, the pumps, the absence, by the way, even the isolation. These are all the facts that I have listed, resulting in unjustified losses, unforeseeable technological processes. Therefore, the repeal of the paragraph “enhancing sanctions for wasteful, unsustainable use of energy resources” cannot be based on obsolete equipment. In addition, appropriate spending standards are planned for obsolete equipment. For these reasons, this proposal cannot be accepted. Moreover, many managers agree to pay low taxes in order not to invest resources to maintain technology equipment in good condition. This has to be prevented, otherwise we will never go to European standards. The opinion of the Committee - the proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u102	Let's vote on Matvienkov's amendment. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the first colleague of Matvienkov. Vote. He's right. [[11:26:54]] For-55 Not supported. Here we go, the next amendment of colleague Matvienkov, the second, rejected. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! That's what my colleague Sergei Anatolievich just said. Today, we are practically in the funding system under this law, which will be used for the introduction of new technology, for the development of energy, we make up two parts: the first part is payments from the budget, and the second part is fines that will be removed from industrial enterprises. Imagine a picture of 80-90 per cent of the main funds, of course, of the person who checks on the enterprise will find dozens, hundreds of violations, of course he is interested in this money being made as a source of financing for the development of the unit in which he will work. Therefore, if this amendment could be taken into account and recorded that only voluntary contributions, budget, please; voluntary contributions from industrial enterprises, which would then encourage them to work on reduced tariffs, please, there are no questions. But to steal and bet, let's say, on the knees of industrialists, with such a foundation. I understand energy. But who will understand the industrialists?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u104	Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u105	I disagree, and the Committee disagrees with this. And the State Energy Savings Fund was originally established by the Energy Savings Act. Then they destroyed him. And in vain, because energy savings need money and budgets, including. And counting on voluntary contributions, it's unlikely. There are many government funds in Ukraine, but they will not bear this problem. Therefore, we correct the mistake of the former energy - saving ideologies. The Committee agreed with the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is conceptual to the bill, namely the establishment of a State energy savings fund without regional funds and the concentration of all funds for central financing of projects. Only such an approach would ensure the implementation of a forward-looking public policy on energy conservation. This is the opinion of the Sectoral Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u106	I'm putting Matvienkov's second amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u107	That's why we're rejecting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u108	Please vote. [[11:29:45]] For-61 Not supported. The third, fourth amendment is included. Fifth, Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u109	By the fifth amendment, that's what we said. The system is being fully implemented today, and the profit tax that these enterprises receive as a result of these activities is again on their development. But it doesn't make any sense. I understand when we create a system of priority development for industries such as the chemical industry that directly gives us GDP, the metallurgical industry, engineering, construction, and we give some preference. Yeah, no questions. But energy, which today has too much capacity, where they are actually reserved to do preferences, so to speak, by exempting them from the profit tax, let's give at least half of the profit tax, what is proposed in this bill, leave them, and half of the profit tax to pay off to the Power so that we can send those programmes that are in the State budget to support the rest of the industries that will consume your electricity, so that it doesn't get in such a way that no one will just consume that electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u110	Please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u111	Well, Sergei Anatolyevich. Well, on one side of the rights, but he does propose to establish a State registry in this regard and I tell you that the State Register does not exist and its creation is not subject to the law on taxation of the profits of enterprises, including this. The amendment to the establishment of a register of enterprises, institutions, organizations involved in the development, implementation and use of energy-saving activities was rejected because of, first, an incorrect proposal to include this provision for the establishment of registers in the Tax Law. It would be appropriate to refer these changes to the Energy Act. on electricity. That's the committee's opinion. Or, in agreement with the Group of Deputies, the authors of Law No. 2519, which is currently under consideration. will also be prepared by Matvienkov, the project can be designed to stimulate investment activities by Ukrainian economic actors in a series of development, energy-saving technologies and energy-efficient projects. Enter this proposal into your law and we will consider it. But this is not the subject of this law. Opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u112	I'm voting for the Fifth Amendment of Matwienkov. Please vote. Vote! [[11:32:42]] For 245 245, accounted for. Six, Panasovski, accounted for. There are no more amendments. Yes, have a seat, please. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to stimulate energy conservation measures, taking into account the amendments we have adopted. [[11:33:25]] For 238. Copy that. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security is under consideration, 0938. [[second reading]] Bronnnikov Vladimir Kostinović, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, in the previous chamber, the deputies adopted a draft law on first reading, which was intended to introduce a number of terminology changes to the Nuclear Energy Act with regard to nuclear installations and to the head of the operating organization. During this time, a number of laws have been enacted that have also amended the Nuclear Energy Act. This relates to the procedure for deciding on the location of nuclear stations, the Act on Social Protection of the Population residing in the Nuclear Station Area, and a number of provisions of the Act have been taken into account. In addition, the Committee, together with Mintopenergo, together with the Nuclear Regulatory Committee, is working with the Ministry of Emergency Situations to codify nuclear legislation, where all terminology will be brought into conformity not only with Ukrainian legislation but also with international legislation, particularly European legislation. The Committee therefore requests support for the closure of the consideration of Law 3186. of the Bill and for its removal from further consideration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, do you understand the position of the committee? I think we should listen to her. I put to the vote Order No. 0938-p on the annulment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. Please vote. [[11:36:02]] For 272 It's been decided. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors is under consideration. [[new editor]] Registration number 0916. Head of the Health Committee Committee, Peter Ivanovich Zürko, please. Is it? Yes, Zurko or Grigorovich, who will report? Grigorovich, please be the first deputy head of the Health Committee, Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u115	Lilia Grigorovich, first deputy to the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies, has today been introduced by the Committee to introduce a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Exploitation of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, Their Analogs and Precursors, which was adopted on the basis of the deputies of the previous call of 19.11.2004. The bill aims to improve the legal mechanisms of state regulation of the legal circulation of narcotic drugs. With a view to improving the health and population systems of such means and substances and reducing the number of offences associated with the illicit drug use of psychotropic substances and precursors. The bill was reviewed by the committee and supported by a majority of the votes of the national deputies — members of the committee. In drafting the bill, the committee took into account the terms of the international convention, particularly the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of the year 72, that is. The committee takes into account 218 comments and proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies, as well as the observations and proposals made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's legal apparatus. There are no unaccounted for proposals or such. Since this is a second reading procedure, once again I report that all the proposals that have come to the committee in the second reading procedure are taken into account. The bill prepared by the drafting committee needs to be marked as follows: the bill consists of five chapters and 36 articles. According to the bill, drugs, psychotropic substances, and precursors, depending on their health risks, public approaches, and controls are included in the list of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and precursors. The circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, the inclusion in the census in Ukraine is limited and controlled in accordance with legislation and international treaties. In addition, the bill has improved the terminology used in the field of drug circulation, psychotropic substances, and precursors, with limited circulation. The authority of the public authority has been designated, I would stress, in this area of the special authorized body. In the number of State measures to control the circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances to improve the general order of control, licensing, and so on, all forms of ownership. In view of this, we believe that a bill that has been tabled in case of adoption will create conditions for improving medical care.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u116	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u117	The adoption of this bill will improve the provision of medicines to patients in Ukraine and will ensure improved control, stressing the circulation and use of narcotic drugs, their analogues and precursors. Since all the suggestions are taken into account, I think we can follow the second reading procedure according to the second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u118	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, regardless of which one of you has this bill on a large scale, about 300 amendments -- and they're all accounted for. True, the two committee members were basically amended, so they could not fail to count. Yes, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u119	Why didn't anyone serve?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u120	Yeah, yeah, I can see that. So no one insists on reviewing any of the amendments that are considered? No, it's not. Are there any comments or warnings about voting? Matthew, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. According to our faction, the decision proposed today by the Supreme Council is premature. And its adoption in Ukraine will have a negative impact on the legal circulation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Which is very confusing, and you know, a respected author, the situation with the circulation of the drug is tramadol. In addition, there is now a network of state - owned and municipal pharmaceuticals that provides health care for the population and institutions identified by a group of medical devices. He's also taking other socially important measures, and we all know that. That is why we believe that this law is being passed today, giving everyone rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u122	Thank you. I fully understand your question, but as a doctor and specialist in health care, I can assure you, dear colleague, of the following. First of all, you are very right about the epidemic in Ukraine. Without all the introductions proposed in this law, we already have an epidemic. And I think it's all just because we have to some extent in Ukraine what's called corruption. But how can a doctor assure you that we have separate areas, including in the south and eastern Ukraine, where there is one communal pharmacy for a whole big city and people are suffering from pain and suffering, which is accompanied by oncology, which unfortunately is of the same magnitude in Ukraine. Excuse me. One more thing I want to say. My colleague, the trampoline you speak of, is not a drug, but a highly active poison, and the Health Committee has adopted an extremely important bill that amends the 323 articles of the Criminal Code, which is responsible for the spread of trafficking, and with you, I hope that before the end of this session, we will vote on this bill. In view of this, I want to say that it has happened that in Ukraine the vast majority of pharmacies are not state-owned or communal property. It has happened that in Ukraine there is a great disease in those problems that require psychotropic drugs. And I want to say that this bill has supported most of the deputies of our committee, where most of the members of the Anti-Crist Coalition come from. But let's put politics aside. I want to say one thing. Nothing's standing there, everything's changing. In Ukraine today, objective realities are that way, and in this law we are making a powerful authority, a licensing system, security control, a criminal code, and all of this is to work together. And that's our responsibility, and that's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u123	Please, Ministry of Health, position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Deputy Minister of Health Valérie Iwaszuk I'm in the Ministry responsible for questions that are associative. It's AIDS and drug abuse. 70 percent of AIDS has been identified or is active in the field of injecting drugs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, which was prepared by the Communist Party as a member of the Supreme Council for a previous call by Loboda, from the Party of the Regions by Tetjana Bahtieva, Rajisa Bogatirova, from the Presidential Force, in this case, by the People's Deputy, is fully combining the thoughts of the various political forces in the area of the establishment of drug trafficking control. This means that a system of government control over the circulation of narcotics will finally be established in Ukraine. That's the first one. And the second. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, if it adopts this law, will bring national legislation fully into line with international conventions. Thus, Ukraine’s drug circulation space will be complementary and controlled not only by national law enforcement authorities but also by international institutions. The Ministry of Health requests the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u125	Yes, dear fellows. I put to the vote, I put to the vote a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the circulation in Ukraine of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors. New edition number 0916. Please vote. [[11:47:28]] For 379 Thank you. The law is passed. Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases which have Caused Loss of Work" (on the organization of the Fund's work) is being considered. Registration number 2045. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, Hara Vasil Georgievic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, on 8 November this year the bill was adopted on first reading and voted by 304 votes. In finalizing the draft second-reading bill, 30 proposals were received to the Committee from members of the people. 19 proposals have been taken fully into account, one taken into account editorially, 10 but similarly rejected. A working group consisting of members of our committee, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the National Bank, representatives of trade unions, the Social Insurance Fund for Work Accidents was established on the bill and the proposals made by the people's deputies. Since this fund is the main source of insurance payments for more than 300,000 insured persons who were injured at work, the drafting of the bill required special attention. This project is aimed at streamlining the work of the Fund with a view to its effective operation. In particular. A more clearly defined set of self-employed persons who can be insured in a voluntary fund. The right of the fund to establish educational information centres that will contribute to the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities who have lost all of them. My fingers, my hands, my legs, and so on. By the way, this rule, like the insurance fund, is a positive example of the German model used in Ukraine. An important change is that the Fund is given the right to participate in funding with the State and not to fund 100 per cent of the targeted public sector regional programmes to improve security, security and security. Work, skills development and so on, as the funds of the fund for all these programmes simply cannot be sufficient physically. In addition, there is a clearer definition of the existing de facto and de jure rule that insurance contributions are a compulsory compulsory payment that is not included in the tax system. I would also like to mention two very important elements of the bill: payment to the victims'funds of material damage and recalculation of monthly insurance payments. On the issue of recovery of moral damage, the working group had concluded that such payments had been excluded from its obligations under the fund for two reasons. First. We have been approached by many organizations of persons with disabilities. Their main argument is that compensation money was not fully received by persons with disabilities because at least half of the amounts were collected by legal firms that did so by their businesses. This can be seen in the dynamics: 3 million have been allocated for this purpose in 2003, 6.5 million in 2004, 18 million in 2005 and 104 million in 11 months in 2006. And the second main argument that came into force of the Civil Code is here in article 1167? It is clearly stated that moral damage is reimbursed by the entity that has inflicted it. This bill aims to improve social insurance against accidents in work for the protection of citizens. The Committee therefore requests that it be adopted on second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u127	Thank you. Let's do some repairs. Please, the second amendment, Kirilenko. Are you insisting? Microphone. Viacheslava Kirilenka microphone 11: 51:19
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u128	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues! The fact is that the faction “Our Ukraine” did not vote in the first reading for this bill, because it practically deprives any hired worker of an accident in the production of the right to compensation for moral damage. At the same time, many legislative acts provide for this right as an integral part of social insurance. By the way, even on January 27, 2004, the Constitutional Court ruled that compensation for moral damage caused by the conditions of production should be provided by the Fund to all victims, including in the case of temporary ones. Part or all of the loss of professional work. So I insist on voting on my amendment, because we believe that compensation for moral damage must be preserved, and people who have become handicapped in production need to pay for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! The Committee cannot accept the proposal for four reasons, at least. First. This is not a function of a social insurance fund that compensates for lost earnings. Second. Smuggling and laundering of colossal funds. over 100 million grevens last year, disrupting the fund's financial system. Third. I repeat, the Civil Code has made it clear that moral damage is reimbursed to all the entities to which it was subjected. And the fourth. I would like to remind the honourable MP that, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, he himself has prepared the bill in the form proposed and against which he is against today for some reason. Therefore, I would like to ask you not to support this amendment of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u130	Váchaslav does not insist on voting? Vote? Kirilenka's second amendment to the vote is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:53:41]] For-93 Not supported. Yes, Bondarchuka, Harry's included in the repairs. Kirilenko, 8th Amendment. Don't insist. Nine count, Kirilenko 11th. [[Bondarchuk]]
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u131	Well, it's similar to the one we voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u132	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u133	Kirilenko, Our Ukraine. Here's a colleague who reports it. That the Ministry of Labour of 2005 has done the same thing, so I want to tell the voters above all and other deputies that it is not true. This law was not passed by the Ministry of Labour in 2005. Moreover, even now the fund itself has not brought it in, because it is uncomfortable to deprive people of their right to compensation for moral damage, and through the MPs of the Party of Regions. I believe that if we take up the right of moral compensation by Parliament today, it will be an anti-social decision by Parliament. So I propose to vote on Amendment 11 which reserves the right to moral compensation for people -- simple workers who might get, God forbid, into a difficult situation and have an accident at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I do not wish to argue on this issue, I would simply advise the distinguished MP to look at his own signed letter dated 14.05.2005 at number 3278/0/14-05, all of which is prescribed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u135	Yes, there are 11 amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u136	Please don't support me. This is similar to the amendment that was made. which we have not voted for. [[11:55:39]] For the 180.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u137	108, not supported. 12, Voropaev. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Bondarchuk, 13 doesn't insist. Next. Kirilenko, 15th mic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u138	Kirilenko, Our Ukraine. This is an extremely cynical norm, dear colleagues. The reporter just told us that we need to save the funds of the fund and not pay people money for moral compensation in case of an injury or an accident at work. At the same time, the MPs who introduced this bill introduce a rule of law, which sounds like “for the purpose of fulfilling their functions, the Social Security Fund creates its own educational and information centres” some seem to lack legislation and normal possibilities and “can create its own publication with a proper polygraph base”. So it turns out that there is no moral compensation for money in the fund, there is no need for people to take money, and there is a polygraph base to create their own publication. My friend, if every fund starts to create at the expense of hired workers, simple publishers and businesses, we'll go a long way. I urge you to consider your amendment!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u139	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u140	On this point, I can only say the following, respected colleagues. We simply need to understand the substance of the matter. The man became disabled, lost his thumb, lost his brush, lost his arm, lost his leg, and needed to adapt his new working conditions. To that end, training centres are being established with special facilities to bring a person back to active work. This is the experience in Germany. We're talking about. We met, we took off the hat in front of the Germans, who created such centers, unique instruments, unique seats, unique devices to bring a person back to work equally. In society. Only someone who doesn't understand the point can say the things the MP said. Please do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u141	The vote is on the 15th amendment, Kirilenko. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:06]] For-136 Not supported. Yeah, next. Hara - accounted for, Cibenko - accounted for. Twenty-one, Kirilenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u142	Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. This is the same restrictive norm that will now result in a once-in-a-lifetime loss of production or, God forbid, in the death of a worker, then in damages to the family, being limited by the fourfold amount of the marginal amount of wages paid to the fund. Again the same problem: The author of the bill proposes to limit the payment of moral compensation to workers and hired workers, to limit the one-time pay for loss of employment and disability in production, and to create a publication that will produce some booklets. And that's all at the expense of those people who pay insurance premiums, and more specifically, employers, because employers pay for this fund. I have a question, including the employers in this room: should they vote for such changes in the management structure of the fund? I insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u143	In the current year, 2006, there is a payment rate of 10 subsistence minimums. The amount is 5,500. You and I have been setting a standard of 15 subsistence minimums since 1 January 2007. You and I all know that there's a limited amount of contributions to insurance funds. Thus, it must be objective for those who pay full wages and receive one-time benefits and those who pay to other funds, including a limited part of the salary, which is 7,875, and four rules constitute a one-time benefit of 31,500. I think that's quite enough, it's agreed with the disability organizations, who are closest to that. And there's one more thing to do. Before this amount was limited in areas, especially where a large number of persons with disabilities were employed, special law firms that earned it had destroyed the financial system of the fund, the disabled had actually received copies, and those who had been involved in the trials had loaded their pockets with tens of thousands. This rule is therefore agreed upon with those who receive it and receive it with persons with disabilities at work. Therefore, we should think about it and, by the way, we should think about employers, if the court decides to increase the lump sum, you can imagine what amount the fund will have to pay for these payments. It is therefore suggested that the rate be increased to 15 subsistence minimums, which will be, again, 31 000 500 in 2007. Give it to God, so that every disabled person, in his life, can happen that you don't go anywhere and become a disabled person to receive 31 grand,500 single - parent benefits. Please do not support the proposal of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u144	I'm asking the Council to set up 1 minute for answers so that we don't cross over. And second of all, it's a little bit different, not about the 300,000 or 30 you're talking about, but it's not more than four times the size. How much is it now? What's the current amount?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u145	Today, 5,500, since 1 January, 7 875 times 4, is going to be 31 000.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u146	I'm putting Kirilenko's amendment to the vote. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u147	Please do not support this proposal. [[12:02:25]] For 105
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u148	105, not supported. Well, the European amendment has no point in voting. Kirilenko, 27th Amendment? Don't insist. We've been through all the repairs. For reasons, please, Kirylenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u149	Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, if we now approve this Law, we will do three things. First, we will cancel the payment of moral compensation to those who have an accident at work. I mean, God forbid, something happened to a man, the whole moral damage fund doesn't make up for it. Is it necessary for the Supreme Council to make such an antisocial decision now and not now, at all? You don't have to. We limit the amount of one-off payments in case of an accident on production. Can Parliament make such antisocial decisions? He can't. Well, we're creating a social insurance fund from industrial accidents. His publication, which he will be creating at the expense of employers who fill the budget of this fund. Whether we should be dealing with such problems and openly lobbying here at the expense of the workers' interests is a big question. So I urge you not to vote in favour of the bill in the second reading, because the key amendments are not included.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u150	Respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u151	No, you've already answered that. It's the same amendments that we voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u152	I am the only one who wishes to say that the people's MP Suškević and the disabled are very much asking to support the bill in the form proposed by the Committee, and I ask everyone to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u153	As a result of the discussion that took place here, I had the only impression that it was necessary for a fund that was lobbying its interests. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases that Caused Loss of Work, registration number 2045. [[on the organization of the foundation]] [[12:04:51]] For 266 Copy that. The factions. Region Party - 182, Timoshenko Block - 33, Our Ukraine - 4, Socialists - 24, Communists - 19, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues, here I was asked to recess two factions of "Our Ukraine and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Who's going to be three minutes? Oh, break! Okay. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12.35. Including, let the two factions take advantage of this break. Not "no, no, no," but "yes, yes, yes".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u154	I'm asking my colleagues to come into the session room, because we need your voices, and more specifically your hands. Let us, fellow Members, for the time being, consider the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies. No, Your Honor, we have an agreement. We agreed you'd need more than 10 minutes. We were saying, Alexander Valentine's Day, we were saying that the performance and everything, because it's connected, right? You'll do it now, then. Let us, as we have agreed, in “different”.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u155	Yeah. After the first hour, as we agreed with you, because you can't, you understand. Come on. All right, let's try it. Dear colleagues, you know that the most important question that we've considered with you and we're going to lead to a logical conclusion is the question of the State Budget. Questions related to the State Budget So I'd like to put two questions into the agenda right now. First question. Registration 2814 is a Supreme Council regulation on the review of living minimum and minimum wage in 2007. And the second question is regarding the return to the draft decree on the release of Drizzle from office as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Registration number 2626. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda and I'm considering these two issues right now. Please vote. [[12:39:06]] For 292 Questions for consideration are included. Dear colleagues, you were handed over to the 2814 Decree on the review of living minimum and minimum wage in 2007. Let me just say a few words and we'll be clear if there's no objection. You know that we have twice considered with you the draft law on the 2007 State Budget. You and I both worked quite actively in the session room, and before that, a working group was specially set up, headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister and the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. We've had a whole series of meetings, reconciliations and so on and so forth. There were so many comments and suggestions from the President. According to the Prime Minister, I had just spoken to him, he informed me that the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act was signed by the President. [[Applause]] But in order to meet with each other and take into account certain points, we need to make a fairly simple decision, which states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of previous estimates of gross domestic product for 2006 to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2007 on an increase in living minimum for persons who have lost their jobs and set the size of April 1, 397. As a result of the implementation of the planned arrivals to Ukraine's State Budget in the first quarter of 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2007 to increase the minimum wage from 1 May to 420, from 1 August to 430, from 1 December to 460. I'm putting this order to a vote as a whole as a ruling. Please be supportive. Take off the vote, please. There's a question. Please sign in. Please sign in. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u156	Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask, and what is the legal nature of this decision, as far as it is compulsory. Since the budget figures are not changing, the government will not implement the decision, what further? It's just like a good mine at a bad game or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u157	Paul Ivanovich, I strongly disagree with you. Because according to the changes in the Constitution, it is clear and clear that the Supreme Council’s decrees are binding on the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, we owe this decree to the Cabinet of Ministers by the calculations that I read you about to make appropriate changes to the 2007 State Budget. Our decision to amend the Constitution is mandatory for the Cabinet of Ministers. So there's no such thing as, we'll control and the decision of the Supreme Council in this case will be the law for the Cabinet. Borszewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u158	Please give the floor to the leader of the Communist Party, Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u159	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u160	Simonenko, the Communist faction. My fellow Members, I ask you to support this draft decree and to consider it as the shared responsibility that we bear with the people of Ukraine, making commitments, first and foremost with the results of 2006 and the first quarter of 2007, to speedily make changes that allow us to increase both the minimum wage and the minimum wage. This is what the people of Ukraine require of us. And I think that this is exactly the kind of responsibility that is going to force us to study very seriously the sources of the filling of the income part of the budget, to look closely at the rise in the service, financial discipline we have in Ukraine, the use of every penny that is budgeted. I call on you and ask for your support, and the Communist faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u161	Please, Baranowski, the Bulba is passing it on to him. Baranowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u162	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, we see that when we meet, the Supreme Council, the government, the President in each other, solves the issue. And now it's announced that the budget is signed. But I can see from the performances of individual colleagues that they don’t like to see such decisions appear. Clearly, they feel better about the conflict when there is a conflict between the President, the Supreme Council and the government. It seems to me that we should put forth more effort and do everything we can to make these conflicts smaller and to work together and to demonstrate to society the unity of power. That the authorities want to work for society, not tear each other apart. And about the budget. He's social after all. We know that very well with you. Practically the best that can be done because it has to be accepted, people are waiting. So let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u163	Teeth, please. Let's vote now. I'll vote in two minutes. Valentin Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u164	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u165	Turkinova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, well, now it's clear to everyone that the President has changed his budget to Drizcan. Even though I gave him the general of the army, I think he's certainly inequitable. But as for this decision. When, Adam Ivanovich, you say that this decree will be the law of government, I have an offer. When a sincere anti-crisis coalition with us wants to improve the lives of our population. There's an offer to leave everything as it is in the text, but to write: the law. So it's not a decision, it's a law to pass. And then this will be in line with both the Budget Code and the Constitution. When we don't do that, it's just going to be a filk's letter that's just being done to cover up this exchange that took place on Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u167	Alexander Valentinovich, I don't have to tell you as the former head of the budget committee that such a law can be incorporated into a law called the State Budget Act. Since the State Budget Act has been passed, the State Budget Act will become law when it is published. Once the law is published and it becomes law, we will have the right to make changes to this law. That is what the proper decision is made to do. Please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u168	Kirilenko, Dnipropetrovska, BUT faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, ask you a question. In the first, second, and agrarian voting process, especially the interfractional unification of the Agrarians in the Supreme Council in the person of Tkachenka Alexander Mikolaiovich, Rizuk, and a number of other deputies, asked questions on the rights to agrarian articles. Are they taken into account when the President signed or not, especially with regard to the social development of the village, subsidies and so on? You know this subject. Are they ultimately counted?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u169	Ivan Grigorovich, the President has signed what you and I have accepted. Because the President can't make any additions to the law and sign with his additions. That's one thing. The other one. As you will recall, in the “Final Positions” of the 2007 State Budget Act, we wrote: The Cabinet of Ministers, after the results of the first quarter, will return to the review of the State Budget Act and make appropriate changes there. So we're going to be looking at it with you about April, and no doubt we're going to raise these questions with you. I hope they'll be counted there. That's how it's done. Then, with your permission, I'll bet you a vote on acceptance. Moreover, you see all the factions without exception talking about what needs to be increased, and the President, let's go to a meeting with each other and we'll take this decision, we'll have to take this step. I'm betting on voting as a whole as a Supreme Council decree on the review of living minimum and minimum wage in 2007. Registration number of bill 2814. Please vote. Let's be friendly. We're all people and voters. [[12:49:01]] For 376 It's been decided. The factions. Region Party - 185, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 81, Our Ukraine - 58, Socialists -28, Communists - 20, non-fractional - 4. Copy that. Now, dear fellows, I bet. You and I have already considered the submission of the President of Ukraine: in accordance with article 106, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am proposing the release of Drizchny from the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service, registration number 2626. I'm putting this order to a vote. Sign up. Three minutes. Please, Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u170	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u171	Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u172	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of these proposals, and I will explain why. First. We would like to hear from the President what kind of candidate he will be submitting for appointment. That's a first. Second. I would like to warn all of you that there is a certain agreement, and it is being achieved in such a way that, as soon as possible, those who come to the leadership of the Security Service will be removed from the service of all those who serve at least one day in the bodies of the State Security Committee. This trend is to undermine national security and eliminate all those who must protect economic, political and other security as the basis for our sovereignty. This is an attempt to create, in fact, a Banderov BS, which was used in the years in question to combat our independence, serving the interests of entirely other States. I would therefore like to hear, first of all, what candidatures will be applied for this post.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u173	Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u174	Give the Turk a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u175	Turk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! No one will deny that the initiative to appoint and remove the head of the Ukrainian Security Service belongs to the President and this is his constitutional right. The only, sadly, honourable colleagues, is that this is happening not transparently, but through some kind of culinary arrangement. And I can predict, and now the media are testifying in a few minutes that the change in the position of the "Regions" faction just shows that there are culinary arrangements between the President and the Anti-Crist Coalition. Unfortunately, neither opposition nor society knows anything about these arrangements. But we do not deny the President's right to appoint and remove the head of the Security Service and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u177	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u178	Thank you. The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Of course, when things like this happen, when, for example, a budget law or a decision is exchanged for the withdrawal of a candidate, it is, in principle, wrong. But you have to release a person because he's already been released. I agree, by the way, that it's a shame that we don't know and are not informed about the increase in rumors that are being offered to head the Security Service because it's very important because it's the right to submit to the President, but the Security Service does not serve the Presidency, but the whole society does, that is, it protects Ukraine's security. And, by the way, unfortunately, I want to say, luckily for the previous speaker, it's all those who didn't serve on the State Security Committee. Everyone else is welcome there. This is about the same as one party: the more you hate Ukraine, the more likely you are to join one of the parliamentary political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u179	Guys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u180	What I'm saying is that the trend in our presidents has gone away for two months to pick the head of the U.S.S.A. and to say that we should have order in the state. If the KGB had previously taken, we know, people, they worked for five, six years. In fact, there was order at that time. And now our presidents' policy has no order in the state and will not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u181	Yes, another faction of "Our Ukraine" insists. Kirilenko and we'll vote. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u182	Kirilenko, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, since the President does not for the first time make a draft decree for the release of the head of the Security Service, and we all know that this is his exclusive mandate. Practically, this issue has long been resolved in a way that the former service manager has written an application for release. So I'm convinced that the resubmission of the President isn't actually done coolly, it's done in public all the time. And now we need to implement a simple voting procedure for that decision, which has long overdue in order to unlock the process of appointing a new head of the Security Service. But each of us knows that the submission will be submitted to Parliament and that there will be a public discussion of this candidature, that is, without the Supreme Council of Ukraine a decision will not be taken, so I propose to support the President's transparent and clear position.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u183	Yes, dear colleagues, in summary of the brief discussion, I remind you once again, it is a constitutional norm. The President makes the decisions, and the Supreme Council makes the decisions. No one speaks, nor does the Constitution say that the Supreme Council is obliged to make such a decision as is made, but it should be considered, and we will now determine it. That's the first one. The other one. In accordance with the Constitution, the President is submitting a nomination to the Supreme Council for appointment. This is the President's right. And then when he makes these nominations, we're going to discuss them with you on the profile committee, and they're going to be given the necessary documents before the vote is known. We may not have the right to demand it now because this candidature has not yet been tabled. When it's introduced, then we'll look at it. We are now discussing only the issue of liberation. I put to the vote a decree number 2526 on the release of Drizzle from office as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[12:56:26]] For 407 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 183, Block Timoshenko – 117, “Our Ukraine” – 71, Socialists – 30, Communists – 0, “Afterfractional” – 6. We are continuing our consideration of the issues. For reasons of what? The motives were already there. Thank you? Come on, if the Service Chief were here, we'd thank him, and maybe he's listening -- let's thank the Service Head, who, really, well, I don't think any of us have a claim until the short time he led the service. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Banking and Banking, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is under consideration. Registration number 2329. Roman Mikhailovich Zvarić, representative of the President, please. Get ready, Cloaky. We're going to get to the 'Variance'.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u184	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Banking and Banking Act, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds. The law that came to be signed radically changes the existing order for the State to exercise the authority of the owner of the State Bank. In line with the new law, the number of members of the Supervisory Boards appointed by the President of Ukraine is reduced, and I place a particular emphasis on this, the Supreme Council of Ukraine: from seven to five. Instead, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to appoint five members of the Supervisory Board of the State Bank. In this regard, it is necessary to stress that both a valid and a new version of this law is defined by the Supreme Authority of the State Bank, which supervises the operation of the bank’s management with a view to, inter alia, preserving the funds involved, ensuring their return to investors and protecting the interests of the State as a shareholder of the State Bank. According to the Ukrainian National Security Fundamentals Act, national security is the protection of the vital interests of the State and the protection of the interests of investors is one of the main pillars of national security policy, which is the exclusive sphere in which the President of Ukraine leads. [[This article is article one.]] Thus, the Law is marked. What comes upon the signature violates the constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine and the national security of the state. It should also be noted that, according to the valid parts of article 16 and article 17 of the 7th Ukrainian Law, which is being considered, the meeting of the Supervisory Board of the State Bank is competent for the presence of at least 10 of its members, decisions are taken by a simple majority of the votes of the total number present at the meeting of the members of the Supervisory Board. All right. Predicted by the Law, the principle of formation of supervisory boards of state banks can in practice lead to the necessary decision for absence and without taking into account the positions of members of the Supervisory Board appointed by Parliament, for example. On the basis of the above, as well as the importance of the issues which the Act refers to the competence of the supervisory boards of state banks by appointing members of the supervisory boards of state banks established by the Law, we cannot agree. The law that came upon the signature also gives the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the right to administer the State Bank in cases established by this Law. In this regard, it should be noted that under article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine, the statute of the State Bank is approved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the Law, which is being considered for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, provides for the possibility of establishing unlimited powers in the statutes of the State Bank for the administration of a state bank that is unacceptable. This indicates that the law, which has been signed by the government banks, does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security, violates the principle of balance in the exercise of public authorities, the President of Ukraine's function of administration and control of the activities of state banks. On the other hand, it should be noted that paragraph 4 of the law under consideration contains a false reference to the second law, which makes no sense to it. In connection with the President’s statement above, it is suggested that this law be repealed. Let me also draw your attention to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which states that paragraphs 3 and 4 of the adopted law are also subject to exclusion from the text as non-constitutional to the Constitution of Ukraine, solely by which the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine are established. Request to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u185	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Yeah, from the committee, who do we have? Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u186	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies! At the Committee on Finance and Banking, on 22 December 2006, the proposals of President Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich of Ukraine to amend article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act, registration number 2329 were considered. During the discussion of the document at the committee meeting, proposals were made both to take fully into account the comments of the President of Ukraine and to reject this law and to make decisions regarding the defeat of the President of Ukraine. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to overcome the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I would like to add and make a further proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u187	Now, now, he'll finish, there'll be a question. Be patient, the report has not yet been completed. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u188	I would like to invite honourable fellow MPs, who are respected by Adam Ivanovich, to try to return to the draft and to propose two amendments that, in my view, would take one of the President's amendments into account and put to the vote, and a second amendment that would take into account the interests of the opposition in the formation of the monitoring boards of State banks. I would like to read out the amendments. You've got a deal, they're in the hall. Paragraph 6 of the first bill. Complete the second sentence of this context. The supervisory board of the State Bank, appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, must be composed of at least one representative of the parliamentary opposition. The next amendment I would like to draw attention to is an amendment to the drafting plan. In preparing the draft to be signed by the President, the legal service will change the number of items: paragraph 4 became paragraph 2 and paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 became paragraphs 3 and 4 respectively. But the link in the text itself has not been changed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that changing paragraph numbers does not affect the content of the bill and is editorial in nature. So I would like to propose that paragraph four of the bill replace the figure “2” with “3”. And in a new edition, vote on the law. Once again, I request a convincing request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u189	Sign up. I see they want to ask questions. Please, three minutes. Lappina.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u190	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u191	Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u192	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. Tell me, Sergey Petrovich. So why didn't we look at these initiatives that you're talking about right now on our banking committee? What kind of game is this, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u193	You know, it's not a game. In my view, the good world is always better off than the bad war. And if it is possible to go somewhere and find mutual understanding and bring our positions closer, both from the position of the President of Ukraine and from the position of all those present in the Chamber, I believe that this opportunity must be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u194	Shevchuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u195	Please give the word to Alexander the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u196	Alexander Turchinov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I'll speak frankly. We don't care what kind of people the bank officials or officials from Gruszewski Street will give us. Because they are unlikely to stand up for the interests of citizens. Protecting citizens from the will of the opposition is only possible, and we are pleased to see that our demand, the harsh demand that was rejected for the first time, is now being taken into account by the committee. So, Adam Ivanovich, I am personally addressing you, our faction will vote in favour of the law, where it will be clearly stated that the representative of the parliamentary opposition will be necessarily included in the council, each board of the state bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u198	That is the wording we propose, I propose in my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u199	Lev Gnutenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u200	Please pass the word to Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u201	Peter Poshenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u202	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the respected Sergey Petrovich, did not consider any similar suggestions on the committee, according to Arzvitin. I'd like to now, too bad that there's no media outlet, make it clear that everyone understands what's going on in this room. There is a prior agreement between the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and the Party of Regions on the exchange and transfer of state banks under the manual administration of the government. We had this in 95-96, when the government was in the same manual, and the bank “Ukraine” was dug up by the government. Today, the interests of depositors of Savings and Ukreximbank are simply devoted to the buy-back of the Party of Regions. And you don't have the right to vote today. You've taken over the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, calm down. Why should we get excited in the last few minutes of our work? Calm down. Everything's gonna be fine. Replicas per minute from BUT, Turks and other regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u204	I want to answer to the honourable MP who sobly cried out that I had been flown all the way down here. First. In order for us not to have any questions about how to vote, we had to vote in favour of the Opposition Act, where the right of opposition was clearly prescribed, you betrayed the opposition, you have no moral right at all to comment on any event in the Supreme Council. And once again, I would like to say to the chairman, I ask you to be clear, I clearly ask you to put questions to the vote and to make it clear that in this bill, which will now be discussed, there is a clear position that the parliamentary opposition will necessarily have its own representative on the National Councils, and neither will any of our friends control our banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u205	Who's from the Party of Regions? It's a pansy microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u206	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! In the course of three minutes, one party first said that it had spoken to the Party of the Regions, and then the second party said they had spoken to the Party of the Regions. I say on behalf of the Party of the Regions, we've never spoken to anyone, we've spoken in elections with our voters, that's our main argument in the conversation. And when that or any other issue you're joining in with what we promised our constituents, we're voting in solidarity. Dear colleagues, we stand on the threshold of a great holiday, let's do the rest of the work, not as a deputy, but as a human being.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u207	Sergey Petrovich, you sit down, sit down, sit down. Sergei Petrovich, sit down. Sergei Petrovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, the lines were exchanged. “Our Ukraine” began, and was given an answer. That's it. Because now “Our Ukraine” will answer, it will again be necessary for them to respond. Therefore, Teryohin, the representatives of your faction have already spoken. The factions of your faction spoke. Dear colleague Teryohin, dear colleague Teryohin, please open the 129th, 130th articles of the Rules and read how the proposals for overcoming the President's veto are being considered. Reports, questions and votes. There's no discussion. There's no discussion. Dear colleagues, I beg you, believe me, I don't know what you should bet. And I'm going to follow the rules. Vyziewski, please sit down. Have a seat. I'm going to do what you want me to do, and more specifically, I'm going to do it by the book. Sit down, sit down. There's no motive either. And just like that, let those who know the rules tell you. Did the faction trust you to speak? Oh, no? Then no. Is it “Our Ukraine” that has entrusted Arjevetina? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u208	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention. Today it is not just about overcoming the veto. This is about the planned experiment, the financial experiment of millions of our Ukrainians, the investors of the banking system. You're going to take a political, real political risk today to these two big banks that are systemic. We did an experiment when the Cabinet of Ministers had a bank called Ukraine. As soon as it's over, you know. If you want another example from the National Bank, a few years ago, under pressure from the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank directed almost 9 billion. to the budget deficit with a return in 2030. These costs could be directed to the real economy, they could lower interest rates on loans. So I'm asking you to think about it, please, because this is about systemic risk in the banking system. Please put the President's motion to the vote. I'm asking a lot of questions and I'm thinking about your state position on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u209	Yes, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, calm down, as the Rules provide. He's going to vote. The first is the President's proposal. The President proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Banking and Banking. Registration number 2329. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:14:50]] For-78 This proposal is not supported. There's a committee proposal to beat the veto. I'll put this motion to the vote. For now, it's a veto. Veto. [[13:15:15]] For-19 Mildness. And there is a proposal to accept such an amendment. “The Supervisory Board of the State Bank includes members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Supervisory Board of the State Bank, appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, shall be composed of at least one representative of the parliamentary opposition.” Keep following the text. I'll put it to the vote. [[13:16:02]] For 348 Copy that. By factions to see who does not belong to the opposition or who belongs. Region Party – 181, “Clock Timoshenko” – 114, “Our Ukraine” – 2, socialists – 28, communists – 18, non-fractional – 5. And a second offer. In the event of failure by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or by the President of Ukraine, three of these laws in the establishment of terms, all members of the Supervisory Boards of State Banks appointed by the entity that has allowed the failure to comply with paragraph three of the Act are deemed to have been recalled. The appointment of new members of the Supervisory Board in exchange for those who have been recalled is carried out in accordance with the requirements of this law. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:16:58]] For -352 Copy that. I put in general the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act, registration number 2329, taking into account the amendments that we have just voted on. [[13:17:31]] For 353 The law is passed. We're sending it to the President. All right, who was yelling, right? Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now let's talk about it. We have a lot of debts. Let's do it this way. We're going to take an hour straight to the "different" hour, but we're going to do a little bit more work to clear up the law. That'll take us 20 minutes, no more. I beg you, the laws that deny you that I will not bet. But I'll put what you have to deny, I won't. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[13:18:29]] For 271 Dear colleagues! It's gonna be okay. We're the last meeting this year, let's end it peacefully. The Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the Deputy Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea" with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 0802. A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich, reports. You haven't been appointed yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u210	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, allow only before presenting the President's proposals, which are addressed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a veto order, to make a small mark on the procedure that has just been carried out with regard to the previous law. I would like to remind the distinguished people's deputies that the bill on which the President's veto and veto were imposed is regarded as rejected. Now it's about the law itself that's being considered. The President's proposals, which are addressed in the Supreme Council in accordance with this law, are presented on page 10. I'm going to make general statements that apply exactly to these proposals, because in this case, the President of Ukraine is proposing specific formulations that are in place, so at least I think, in your materials, that is, in a comparative table that was prepared by a profile committee. As for the first remark. The law suggests that he may be the elected member of the Supreme Council of the ARC, a person who resides permanently in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Such a requirement is not in line with article 23 of the Constitution of autonomy and other laws of Ukraine. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes to exclude the exact position of permanent residence. The next proposal by the President of Ukraine refers to the term of office of the Supreme Council of the ARC. Article 2 of the Act establishes that he or she is to be elected for a term of four years, but it is not taken into account that in accordance with the changes made to articles 76 and 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the 5-year term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has been established. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes to make appropriate changes to the law under consideration. The following amendment refers to the moment at which the mandate of a member of the Supreme Council of the Republic of the Republic may be considered to be valid. The law states that they have been valid since the opening of the first session of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic. Instead, the basic law defines them as valid from the moment they are registered by the respective territorial election commission. So it turns out there could be 2 compositions of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In view of the foregoing, the President is proposing a series of amendments to the law that is being considered to take account of this conflict. or solve this conflict. The next proposal by the President of Ukraine concerns what is proposed to the deputies. Or, more faithfully, to extend to the members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea the Institute of the Imperial Mandate, i.e. if the deputy comes out of the faction of that political party on whose list he was elected, he loses his mandate. Such requirements are contrary to articles 21, 24, 34, 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine and should therefore be excluded from this law, which is exactly what the President of Ukraine is proposing for your consideration. In other words, I will not stop any other amendment because they are not of such a principled nature, but it is still necessary to stop at the separate disposal contained in this law, which is being considered, which gives the members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea the right to appeal and to request officials of the state authorities, to receive such persons immediately, to receive information and so on. The provisions of the Act do not comply with the provisions of Article 136 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the article of the First Act of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as well as article 21 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which provides that the Supreme Council of Autonomous Republic of the Republic is a representative body and therefore has no right to perform any control functions, including the directing of such requests. The next amendment, or proposal, to the President refers to the rule imposed by this law, which provides for the granting to the Deputy High Council of Autonomy of the right to violate in the Supreme Council the question of implementation, the Supreme Council of Autonomy, questions about the conduct of checks on the activities of local governments, enterprises, institutions, organizations, etc. Again, this is not in line with article 136 of the Constitution of Ukraine and with a number of other laws of Ukraine, including the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, according to which the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is a representative body and therefore has no right to perform such control functions. The next proposal of the President of Ukraine refers to what is defined in this law as the right of the majority coalition, which should be formed in the Supreme Council of Autonomy, to take on -- I am now quoting from the law -- responsibility for forming the presidency of permanent commissions and other bodies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. These powers are excluded not by the majority coalition, but by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but by the rule contained in the Law that is under consideration does not correspond to the Constitution and other laws of Ukraine. Accordingly, the President proposes to make some changes in order to avoid such a legal coalition. The next proposal by the President of Ukraine is that part of article 25 of the 8th and article 26 of the Law, which is under consideration, is intended to grant the members of the Supreme Council of Autonomy the right of inviolability. This right is established by a special order to address the issue of attracting them to criminal administrative or legal responsibility. As we know, the Constitutional Court's decision of December 23, 97 and of February 26, 98, established that such inviolability, such an institution of integrity of a person cannot extend to the deputies of local councils, or representative bodies, among which the Constitution of Ukraine just defined, is the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The next proposal by the President of Ukraine refers to what the Law establishes, which I quote: “The election office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea refers to the respective categories of public officials.” This is not in line with the relevant regulations, such as the Ukrainian State Service Act, which is why the President of Ukraine proposes to introduce appropriate amendments in order to harmonize these two laws. The next proposal made by the President of Ukraine is that of the law under consideration. It's proposed to give the members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea the right to receive, I'm already quoting here the law, free information aid on the issues that arise in his parliamentary activities from a whole range of different and state organizations, and, by the way, non-state organizations. For example, according to the law under consideration, even businesses, regardless of the form of their property, are obliged.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u211	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u212	provide such free information assistance, which is not even possible for deputies in this room. In addition, there is a right to speak in printed media, live, radio, or television, even minutes, regardless of what form of property, again, such a right violates a number of other laws in Ukraine. And the President of Ukraine is proposing some changes to deal with these positions in strict compliance with other laws of Ukraine. Consider the above. I'm just finishing up, Mr. Valentine, if you'll excuse me, but the law is very complicated, and so I've demanded a lot of suggestions from the President of Ukraine. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine is proposing a series of proposals to this law. And they're not political or anything else, they're strictly legal. Therefore, it is a great request to support these proposals by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u213	Thank you. It's okay. It's okay. Have a seat, please. I think we'll make a wise, balanced decision with you. Please, Mr. Blackmore, Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u214	Alexander Chernomorov, “Regions” faction, Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs, distinguished voters! Since the entry into force of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Member of the Supreme Council of the Crimea has not had a law on its status for more than ten years, which has had a very negative impact both on the work of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and on the exercise by the deputies of its powers. I, the economy of your time, will not dwell long on what is hindered by the absence of this law. I will only say that the President, this law was passed exactly one year ago, on 22 December 2005, is here in the Supreme Council. But the President, as the representative said, issued 17 proposals and filed the bill. The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has repeatedly discussed the comments of the President of Ukraine. A working group was formed to finalize the law. In view of the relevance of this issue, the members of the Supreme Council of the ARC considered it possible to agree with all the President's comments. Although the findings of the Science and Technology Administration suggest that some could be disputed. But the deputies of the Crimea Supreme Council believe that all the comments of the President must be accepted. The Committee on State Construction, Regional Policy and Local Government considered at its meeting on 13 December the President's proposals for the Ukrainian law on the status of deputies of the Supreme Council of the ARC, the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the address of the President of the Supreme Council of the ARC and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the President's proposals for that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u215	Have a seat, please. Ruslan, I'm sure next week I'll give you the opportunity to ask the next question. There's another question. We've got a little bit of vitality. What's more, once again, we're going to make a balanced decision. Dear colleagues, you have heard the committee's proposal, he agrees with all the president's remarks. In accordance with the Rules, I would like to make every remark by the President, more specifically, every proposal should be put to the vote. You don't mind if I put all my proposals to the vote because there's no objection to any of them. No objections? None. Then I put in general the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Deputy Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, taking into account all the President's proposals, registration number 0802. Please vote. [[13:34:27]] For 354 For 353. The law is passed. Thank you. In keeping with all the President's proposals. I'm sorry, 354, 354. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Strengthening Opposition to the Illicit Traffic of Archives is under consideration, with proposals by the President, Registration No. 0929. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. More than that, the chairman said today that Sunday was the day of the archival workers. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u216	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the law under consideration cannot be signed on such grounds. Paragraph 5 and 6 of article 2, paragraph 1, of section 1 of the Act provides for the strengthening of administrative responsibility for corruption, I emphasize administrative responsibility for corruption, illegal destruction, the concealment of documents of the National Archives Fund. At the same time, the law also provides for criminal responsibility for the deliberate destruction, damage or concealment of documents of the same fund. Thus, for the same offence, there are two types of legal responsibility: administrative and criminal. There is no clear distinction between when and for what reason it is and whether or not it is. Of course, this can in practice lead to the same violations of various responsibilities and as a result of violations of citizens’ rights and freedoms. In view of what has been said, it is proposed that the President of Ukraine make appropriate changes to this law. That's the first offer. The second suggestion is that, according to the individual rules of the Code, more faithfully, Ukraine has been amended to deal with administrative offences referred to in article 92 of the Code. This code is transmitted from the administrative commissions to the executive bodies of the city, village and village councils to the courts. In doing so, it has been overlooked that the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences provides for the possibility of repealing or modifying the ruling on administrative offences by a judge in protest against the prosecutor. On the basis of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes to amend this law accordingly. This is the president's second proposal. And the third proposal relates to the next one. With a view to avoiding the commission of a crime of a more mild penalty than the imposition of a similar administrative action that conforms to the principles of adequacy and justice is proposed in section 1, paragraph 2, of Article 298. The Criminal Code of Ukraine after the word “traf” should be supplemented by the words “from 50 to. ” These are three proposals made by the President of Ukraine. All three of them, as far as I know, are accounted for by a profile committee, which a representative of this committee himself can say. If these proposals are supported, there is a high probability that the President of Ukraine will be able to sign this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u217	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Wooden Vasil Timothyovich is head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u218	Vasil Derevljany, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is suggested by the President of Ukraine's proposals for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the resistance to illegal circulation of archival documents, registration number 0929. The bill provides for increased control over the movement of archive documents by transferring ownership rights to them, enhancing the effectiveness of countering illegal circulation and ensuring their preservation. On 13 December 2006, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality reviewed the President's proposals, took them all into account, and therefore asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the bill, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u219	Thank you, Vasil Timothyovich. Please sit down. Even Knyazevitch doesn't want to ask questions. Dear colleagues, let's support the proposals and the committee, and the scientific and expert administration, and the President, and vote in favour of the adoption of the Ukrainian Act to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the opposition to the illegal circulation of archival documents, taking into account all the President's proposals. Please vote. [[13:39:58]] For 395 Thank you. The law is passed. I think we've done a good job up to the day of the archive staff, which is celebrated on Sunday. Yes, dear fellows. We're almost there. If we work fast, we'll be fine. Dear colleagues, allow me to break the rules and to include in the agenda and to adopt a decision on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the import of cultural values. Registration number 2226. About inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Please vote. [[13:40:52]] For 337 A decision has been made. Please report to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance, the banking activities of Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u220	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You see, they didn't want to give me words, but they did.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u221	I knew you'd talk again, so I saved your throat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u222	Honorable National MPs, distinguished colleagues. This story has a continuation of the State Budget project for this year. You know, the government offered to introduce appropriate standards for cultural values into the body of the budget, but then another law was passed. We have not been able to incorporate into that tax law the issue of importing cultural values, and we suggest that we consider it now and if possible accept it. In accordance with article 54 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the State ensures that historical monuments and other cultural objects are preserved, taking steps to return to Ukraine the cultural values of the people outside. Over the years of independence, Ukraine has joined many international agreements on the protection of cultural values, which have indeed shown interest in this problem on the part of the State and its intentions to increase its spiritual treasure. Regrettably, the existing legislative framework is not perfect in the import of cultural values and does not allow for the creation of adequate conditions to promote the practice of completing and restoring cultural values. To a greater extent, this is due to the absence of favorable conditions. It is now known that collections of many museums in Ukraine have been created by the dedicated work of private collectors and patrons, including the brothers Tereshchenka, the Hanenk family, Vicente Hvojk, and the private collections of Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, beyond Ukraine there is now an enormous number of cultural values belonging to Ukrainian museums, churches and private collections. We have numerous examples of destruction and loss under various historical conditions of enormous cultural values. Especially tragic was the 20th century marked by several revolutions, two world wars, and numerous local conflicts that inevitably resulted in the acquisition of culture. In 14 years of independence in Ukraine, the number of state museums did not increase in the same way as their collections did not increase. And cooperation between the State and the collectors could create favourable conditions not only for the return of cultural values to the Fatherland but also for the enrichment of our culture by exhibits of cultures of other peoples. The legislative settlement of the import and circulation of cultural values by natural persons will greatly complement the acquisition of the state, and the proposed changes will enable the creation of museums and collections that will make the works of art more accessible to both domestic and foreign artists. This proposal is based entirely on Article 26 of the Sixth Directive of the European Union, and it reflects the positions that exist today in the European Union. That is why it is in line with the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Therefore, honourable national deputies, while saving your time, I would like to support this law, the committee proposes to adopt it, and in general, taking into account such two observations, that the import of cultural values determines the customs value of them according to the general order set out in the Law on Added Value Tax. And a second offer. In view of the introduction of licensing for cultural values, it is not January 1st but July 1st that the executive authorities prepare for such introduction. With such remarks, dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to put this bill on the ground, if there is no objection, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u223	Thank you. Any questions? Yes. Sign up. Please, three minutes. Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u224	Dear Head! Dear reporter! The introduction of cultural and historical values for Ukraine is not just a question of banking and finance, it is not just a question of returning those values, but it is a historical issue. The state, the nation must have its cultural values, they are scattered around the world, from Canada to New Zealand. And so in principle, there can be no negative reaction to this law. There's only one question left. The whole problem is in detail. Would it not, dear reporter, be a gateway to transport what is unnecessary?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear Mr. Belarus, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these norms contained in the bill only apply to 97 groups of Ukrainian classifications of goods of external economic activity that define three positions: these are cultural values, these are works of art and these are antiquarians. It doesn't extend to anything else. What is the purpose of this law? Imagine. Mr. Belarus, let's assume such a unlikely situation when the Russian Federation agrees to hand over our famous Gethman Flea from its evil reserve. So, according to existing legislation, if you don't adopt this law, it's taxed both by customs and by value added tax. Clearly, then, such a situation is absurd. To correct it, we propose this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u226	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u227	Thank you. I think the bill is necessary, we need to turn it into a law. But Adam Ivanovich, let's move on to the “Variance” and vote quickly, because, frankly, I don't know when anyone will listen to this “Variance” after the second hour. And the faction will vote, support. The emphasis here may be a technical bill that needs to be supported in the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u230	That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u231	Dear reporter, the faction will support this law, we will not even propose a speech in the light of the obvious usefulness of adopting this law. To you, just one question is whether you can appreciate the amount of experience we've had in the past and use the appropriate taxation mechanism, the cultural values that are imported into Ukraine every year. What's the amount?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u232	That's a good question. Officially, zero! According to customs statistics that we have invited before the drafting of this law, cultural values are not officially imported into Ukraine. Clearly, it's smuggling, it's bribes and so on. Look, in our antique stores, you can find cultural values from all over the world. But they're getting in the wrong way, they're closed. And that's why many of them are sold in shadow traffic. We want to bring it into the light so that people who have these cultural values don't be afraid to exhibit them in museums, let's say, or let them go public. make them public. Thank you. I'd like that. Adam Ivanovich, if there is no objection, accept in general the two brief remarks I made for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u233	I heard. I've heard your suggestions, don't repeat them, I remember them. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u235	I think there have been questions and discussions. Right? Nobody insists? I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the export of cultural values, registration number 2226, taking into account the proposals made by the rapporteur. [[on the order in which cultural values are exported by natural persons]] I would like to point out that it was introduced on July 1st. Licensing from July 1, 2007, with the suggestions made by the reporter. They'll find it in the transcript. I'm betting on voting as a whole as a law. [[13:50:49]] For 388 The law is passed. In general, it's been accepted. We need to include and consider a draft regulation on the approval of the personal composition of the public councils of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[13:51:25]] For-35 The question is not included. Come on, I'm talking to Andrei Vitaliovich again: I asked you to consult with the factions, you promised me, but there is no result. Not even your faction voted. We need to get into the agenda and look at the draft Ordinance on Changes in the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, registration number 2806. About getting into the daytime, please be sure. Don't worry! Don't run! Don't run! Put your hands where I can see 'em. Put your hands where I can see 'em. [[13:52:10]] For-200 The question is not included. Well, you were yelling. And you were yelling. Let's go to the most desirable. Please sign up for “Victane”. Just like we agreed, we're taking an hour. Please, Slippery, the faction of the Party of Regions. Behind him, Biba. No, no, dear colleagues, we agreed. I can give you three minutes. Okay, okay, okay. And then when you find a place, we'll sum it up. But it's going to be a breakup. You show me, here's our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the radio will work, don't worry! That's three minutes. Please, Slippery. Who's speaking? Mikola's mosquito, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u236	Honourable voters, respected kyans, respected colleagues, yesterday’s events in the Kiev City Council once again demonstrated the opposition’s inability to work under the conditions of parliamentary democracy. Its propensity to radically exacerbate the political situation in the country, where national MPs have resorted to blocking the work of the Kiyevrada session. Because of the internal crisis, the members of the “Julia Timoshenko” and some of the deputies of the “Our Ukraine” faction are looking for a self-piar site. Today, Kyiv has proved to be the most suitable for testing the extremists of opposition actions, since the capital has a large number of media. The country and the Chinese are misinformationed by baselessly hanging labels on the objective economic processes that are taking place in the city. Kiev is developing, and this development is impossible without the allocation of land to the most important investment projects. The only problem is that if "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" is not in power, the white will always be black, the land will always be called "deriban". Despite another attempt by the opposition to overthrow the meetings of Kyivrada, members of the majority were already able to vote in favour of the issue. Entered into the agenda of the day’s session, this will allow for additional arrivals to the capital execution. In addition to land issues, a number of important social issues were discussed at a meeting of Kyivrad yesterday. By the way, the voted land allocations for schools, for student housing, and for clinics and hospitals. So what's blocking the opposition? In society, there is a serious reason to think: is it true that the Ukrainian opposition is still unable to work at the level of civilised parliamentary democracy? It’s really a strategy. ” May, in dui dui dui" is the only tool in the arsenal of people who seem to want to lead Ukraine to European standards? Many members of the opposition have already forgotten that they are disunited because considering the key issues on which the opposition stands will show that the majority of the deputies hold similar positions. Yet, dependence on party leaders’ positions, their dissatisfied ambitions, are the main causes of political destabilization. The faction of the Party of Regions states that the only way out is not only for Kiev, but also for Ukraine is to reject radically destructive positions, political dialogue, constant public discussion of problems, search for constructive dialogue and solutions to real urgent problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now we're going to break the order of the speeches a little bit, because, you know, we agreed that in the "Variable" there would be the first speakers who took a break in connection with the statement. That's one thing. They've got three minutes. Three minutes plus Knazevitch, he's the eighth, Laško is the tenth, Sivolski is the 12th, they're handing over their time to see a movie with you after Lily Grigorovitch's performance. Please, after that Bebe.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u238	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, Honourable Head of State, Honourable National Deputies! I have in my hands videos and photos that I'm going to show on this monitor, which. from whom the bloodiest warrior rests. The skulls of people who fight in convulsions are broken. Changed by the ferocious face of “brothers” with a criminogenic hue. The blood of man is poured down to the ground. And then into the bloody earth, bloodied with hands, they plant trees and the mayor of the city says, "With the New Year of You!" Question: "What country is this?" Does it have an ombudsman? What kind of authority will look into the eyes of mothers whose children are in distress? And the answer is very simple: this is Ukraine, this is the city of Kharkiv, this is December 16th. Mayor of Kharkiv, MP of the Mikhailo Dobkin Regional Party. The stories with this video will not only go through all of Ukraine's television channels, they'll be devoted to all embassies, they'll be devoted to Eurobending to see what kind of power is in Ukraine today. These events began with the Kiev City Administration and took even more terrible forms in the city of Kharkiv. It's a card of today's power, that's her point, that's her face. That is why I am authorized to make a statement from the faction “Our Ukraine” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” because we are convinced that it is not the Opposition Act that is a strong opposition, but it is strong and only by protecting the interests of Ukrainian citizens, which we are doing today. On December 16, 2006, at the Klukkowski Street building, 197 youths from a sports organization of 300 who arrived on buses under the direction of Mayor Kharkow Dobkin and the secretary of the Carnes area organized 30 beatings. Of these, five are in serious condition. An unheard - of organization led by the mayor of the city at a time when the city is facing unresolved communal problems. The faction “Our Ukraine” and “The block of Yulia Timoshenko” are outraged by such shameful actions. We demand: First. An immediate investigation by the Attorney General of this fact, which is why our recording is from this rostrum. The other one. Establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council. Third. The Attorney General's legal assessment of the police's inaction, which today is not with the people, but against them. And literally the last is to show the video of this terrible event in the session room, so that everyone can see, "They're coming back." The faction “Our Ukraine” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” claim that they will not come. There will be no such thing as a crime scene and a crime scene in Ukraine. And now I want to show you the video material.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u239	Please show the footage. There's time. Knezevich, Laško, Sivulski. Sound? If it's there, you can make a sound, of course. [[Video material display]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u240	Passive observation by the police is inconsequential. Notice, convulsions, convulsions, fractured skull, cranial severe trauma. Our citizens, our fellow countrymen, the 21st century, the city of Kharkiv, Ukraine. How can a doctor say that this person’s condition is very difficult if not tragic? If anyone doubts that this is a rematch, take another look at these images. Who will look into the eyes of these mothers whose sons may have died or have lost their health forever in these events? Can we allow the Ukrainians to be beaten by Ukrainian authorities in our Ukrainian state? The militia did not detain those who were beaten, although there were almost as many as those who captured and beaten. If that's enough for the Attorney General's Office, I think the Ukrainian community and the world community will have enough. You see, there's a militia leader who's totally out of action. Yes! Such beatings are, but not at the head of the mayor, not at the head of the mayor, where the citizens of the city of Kharkiv are being beaten. The land was seized, the land was illegally seized. There's no excuse. And we're waiting for a law enforcement evaluation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u241	Yes, dear colleagues, calm down, calm down. One minute. Holy shit, please. Let's go. In different ways, there are replicas, and in different ways there are replicas. One minute, we'll listen faster than we'll argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u242	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u243	One minute, give it time, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u244	Step away, please. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the esteemed TV setters, I mean, right now, we're seeing the mounted material, now we've seen the mounted material. What was shown was the provocation of people, of people who attacked a peaceful demonstration. So I want to re-examine this film. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. I think that this fact will be the subject of consideration by those to whom it should be considered and we will get answers. We're not going to answer that. Yes, please, Biba passed the word to Vasil Yadusa. After him, Marmazov gave the word of Oplaček to prepare. Speak, speak, for your time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I was moved to make numerous appeals today to the inhabitants of my Hmelničina, such as Mikli Yatishina of Vinkovets, Peter Kraljczuk of the Yarmolinsky region, and a number of others, including the holding of a parliamentary club of councils and deputies of all levels in the Jarmolinsky region of our area, which we first started, with many questions. Until there is no effective executive power and authority in Ukraine as a whole. As long as the President's Secretariat, filled with recruits, will make anti-constitutional proposals to the President, while the so-called opposition and its leaders will be driving in Brussels, hiding in the coal towers, meeting with ambassadors from various countries and dishonoring our Ukraine, while the opposition will be masked by the slogans of the "honorable Ukrainian people!" and so on, speculating, calling people to see clearly all the processes that are going on in Ukraine in one color. All the bandits, they're not good, they're not good, we're white and we're puffy. But now I have a question. Let's take it. I am addressing the people of the western areas of Ukraine and the central part of Ukraine. Look who's in power today, heads of district councils, heads of district administrations, heads of district councils, all the other bosses, all the orange camp. Why is the region’s economy collapsing? Why don't they pay off their wages and go up? Why, why, why? Many questions can be asked. Still, the question is. Who today stand up for people, and who sabotages the execution of government decisions and leads to human abuse? It is the authority that is in place today. Who raises tariffs unwarrantedly? It is the same today in Western Ukraine as the orange legions that work there. And I'd like to ask you a few questions. For example. In Ukraine many families, where husbands and wives are children of war. And they account for the benefits, for example, the gasses account for both members of the family, and the energy, the utilities, only one, violates the right to the benefit of the other. Energy has even come to mind when it comes to putting individual counters on both men and women. This is probably only in Ukraine. In villages of the city’s type, educators receive benefits for the payment of heat and electricity. On September 1, however, the medical aid was canceled. Why? Turns out there's a village. Only by administrative division are there villages and villages of the city type, and there are no villages. So there are thousands of such questions. That's where you have to use the hands of an active authority. But today it's so powerful, it's working against the Ukrainian people, it's throwing out all those who can work today to develop regions on the street and the impression is that it's working against people, and it's not in power today, it's on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u247	Thank you. That's the word. He's got it now. Polymarenko spends his time, that is, six minutes. He'll be followed by Voropeyev, but by Voropeyev. A chariot to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u248	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. On December 14, 2006, the Supreme Council established a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the situation with the holding of the election of the head of the city of Kyrovgrad. For five days, the commission under the leadership of the Fesenka commission worked in the city of Kirovograd. Members of the General Prosecutor’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Central Electoral Commission, experts and legal experts were involved in the work of the commission. Members of the interim commission met with the district council, district administration, law enforcement, and judicial authorities in the area. In the course of their work, members of the commission met with candidates for the position of city chief Nikulini, Puzakov, Danuza, their trusted individuals, lawyers, who gave us their vision of the situation surrounding the elections and provided documents that they considered to support the violations of the Ukrainian Electoral Law. They also met with the heads and members of the district district, territorial election commission, individual voters, representatives of the media. The commission worked openly, and everyone who wanted to meet met with the members of the commission and talked about the events that took place during the elections. Previous conclusions are that the election of the head of the city of Kirovgrad on November 26 was very low on voter polling grounds because they no longer believe in justice and voting results. But almost all those who met with us observed that elections were held peacefully in the polling stations, without significant violations of the Electoral Law, and there were no violations. Each district was attended by members of the commission, observers who received wet seal records. After counting the votes in the polling stations, all the district commissions of the Lenin district and the village of Novi, where the records indicated that he had won, that is, he took the first place of Danuza, passed the minutes and ballots in the city’s electoral commission without problems, and in the Kirovgrad district commission the electorate, where he won and took the first place of Puzakov, which was posted by the Communist Party of Ukraine, showed that he had won a variety of offences throughout the city. On November 27, at about 19 p.m., 86 complaints appeared that were submitted to the Kirov District Election Commission, which were written under copiers without appropriate acts. The commission did not define these acts, and pressure began on the commission’s head. The deputy of the city’s head, Black, was offered 20 grand by the chairman of this committee. I'd like to make it worth your while to fake the results of the election for Danuci. She spoke of this as members of the Temporary Investigation Commission, as well as at the City Council’s session where she was speaking. Her speech was filmed, which I handed over to the Attorney General’s Office on December 21 for the adoption of appropriate measures. A member of this electoral commission also submitted an explanatory note to the commission that Black and she were offered money for not voting on the commission for the approval of the protocol. When she refused, she thought, as well as that of Kožankovi, threats came to mind. This explanatory note with the accompanying document was sent to the district prosecutor by the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission. According to these and other facts, the Public Prosecutor’s Office has violated a criminal case, and the Attorney General’s Office has assured the commission that the investigation will be under special control. It is only surprising why the district attorney did not break this criminal case earlier, that is, before the temporary commission of inquiry? After that. As a separate political force, it was not possible to falsify the protocol of the Kirov District Electoral Commission and all the minutes of the district commission, the ballot papers and the protocols of the district commission were handed over to the city's territorial election commission, and they began to file complaints on November 28, 29 in the city's territorial election commission. The city’s TVC is impressed by its incompetence, its lack of electoral legislation, and its frank use of silk. Thus, the deputy head of the Slipchenko commission, especially the secretary of TVK Ushakov, who in fact removed the head of Bagan from the commission and made the decision of the commission to his own discretion or direction. At virtually every session of the commission, Ushakov acted presumptuously, slandered the presence of members of the commission, others, and the media at the meeting of the commission. In their words, he used uncensored words. The interim commission of inquiry invited him several times and asked us to study the protocols and other documentation of the commission in the safe and the keys to the safe. The secretary of the interim commission of inquiry, Sadowy, met with him and also handed over our request, but he replied that he did not recognize either the Supreme Council or the interim commission and gave no documents, nor did he in uncensored form offend Sadov, for which he applied to the district prosecutor's office for an appropriate response. On December 30, TVK recognized the election in 13 polling stations as invalid, and this session was not even invited by the heads of these committees, but no district and district elections were valid.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u249	Thank you. Vadim Kolisnichenko, please. After him, Eutuhov passes on to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u250	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished listeners! Member of the Party of the Regions Koleznichenko, Sevastopol. Dear colleagues! In the town of Sevastopol, there was a recent meeting of history educators and there were about 100 people. They all agreed that the lessons of history today had become a lesson in hypocrisy for small Ukrainians. The current documents on which our children are taught are a conscious falsification of the real historical past of our country. Schoolchildren are invited to study questionable stories about Ukrainians, not the history of Ukraine. We need a healthy advocacy of Ukrainian patriotism, but it is replaced by plentiful local nationalism. In fact, education has adopted a completely new concept in science that it is not necessary to talk about actual events, but what we would like to see is what has happened in the life of our State. Scientists have already said what it's called. It's called mythologists. The worst part is that in this dark besiegedness, children are in the process of increasing their hostility to us by Russia. And thoughts of the superiority of the Ukrainian people over both the Russian and other peoples who now reside in the territories of our Ukraine. This is the path to national intolerance, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and racism, which are now systematically manifest in our lives, as the representatives of the world community have repeatedly stated. In view of the statements and programme tasks of radical nationalists, we are certainly moving towards the realization of the ideas of fascism, and neo-Naziism is beginning to emerge. I would like to state that the history of the Great Homeland War has a special place in education. The textbooks, however, disappeared hero cities: Sevastopol, Kerch and Odessa. The main page is dedicated to UN-OPA soldiers who allegedly defended Ukraine. I therefore made an open appeal to Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco. We must and must do everything necessary to review the history that we are taught and the programme that our children are taught. I had already been approached by historians, scientists who had been expelled from the so - called committee that had prepared history books. They see a completely different picture of what was happening. And they understand that if we fake history, we deprive the future of both ourselves and our children. Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, stated: “No nation seeking superiority over others can be safe.” I therefore have to once again call upon the people of Ukraine to unite around the multinational State of our country, not around a separate nation, which has no right to rule over those who actually live in the territory of our State today. I'm for multinational Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u251	Please, Ivan Popescu. Behind him is Herman Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u252	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll speak for two minutes, and I'll leave one minute to reply to our colleague, Saints, who has something to say. Dear colleagues, from this rostrum a couple of weeks ago, I was speaking on the point that we are proposing the introduction of principles in the Chernobyl area. the free economic zone, because in 1991 only in our area, alongside a referendum on Ukraine's independence, was voted in favour of granting the Montenegrin area the status of the free economic zone. As a result, we propose to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: to intensify Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union within the framework of Euroregions and the perspective of cross-border cooperation in order to see what benefits we can get from this, what are the problems and what can be done. We therefore urge that these parliamentary hearings focus on the following issues: first, a practical analysis of the impact of the establishment of a free trade zone with the EU on a regional scale. Second, the acceleration of the development of Ukraine's regions involved in cross-border cooperation with the EU. Thirdly, implementation of the potential of manufacturing specialization in the Western areas of Ukraine, which are lagging behind in the export base of Ukraine's external trade balance. Following, creating additional conditions for foreign investment in Ukraine, joint development of transport, communication infrastructure, tourism, recreation, environmental protection, regional development strategies, etc. And we offer these parliamentary hearings Spend September 14th. Using what is happening in some Romanian areas next week, I would like to say Romanian: And now I'm handing one minute to our colleague, the Saint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u253	Please, Dmitri Saints.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, we have just seen the material and I want to say from the Party of Regions that we are impressed by what has been shown from the events of the city of Kharkiv. And we insist on an immediate and as soon as possible investigation, a comprehensive investigation into this case, so that those responsible for this, in the course of this fight, in the organization, directly executed, will be punished. As far as I know, they have already committed a criminal case and I insist that Parliament take over the case. But I insist that neither the mayor of Harkov nor the Party of Regions have anything to do with the organization. We saw the mayor of the same Kharkiv Mikhail Dobkin call on both the police and all the participants in this fight to break up and not take part in it. And this tragedy must be investigated and even heard in the walls of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u255	Yes, Herman. I can't see. Please, Klitchenko is handing over to Mutsu Oreste. Please. Get ready. Witenko was handed over by a miracle worker.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u256	Mutz Orestes, Party of Regions, Ternopilish. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, native Ternopilska! On this platform, I was forced to come out with such a problem today that much information is missing about our native Hempland a little so softly said, distorted. In the winter, this happened: no one can believe that in the vicinity of the orange revolution in Ternopolska, most of the world’s BETs, on boards, on district councils, on city councils, and on district councils, are starting to harass journalists and other thinkers. In this regard, as a national deputy, anchored by the faction of the Ternopil region, and Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil, we cannot place our materials in the media, which are controlled by BUTI. On this point, I turned to the leader of BUTU, Ulysses Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. I turned to the head of the profile committee. What do you think? I showed you the answer, the cynical answer that I first received in my life. You see, this is the answer from the leader of the B.U.T.A., the opposition woman. I'll read it to you, dear colleagues who have officially responded to the bloc's leader. She called the problem, quote, an unwarranted fiction, but at the same time, speaking to me, rather than to Orestes, Oleg Pavlovich. Mrs. Julia, I understand that it is difficult for you to reproduce the name Orestes, which is common in the western areas of Ukraine, where many of your constituents are, and you are probably not aware of the problems of our electorate. If Julia Volodymyrna hears me, I'd like to ask her how she feels if I called her Orisei or Marusea. A party of regions, the venerable ternopolites and the native Ternopolish, took care of you, cared for you, and would care for you. And an example of this. Today, it is us who are being approached by the thorns. For example. Iz. I received a letter from the Ternopil village council of the Ternopil region asking me to help with the gasification of a remote hut, where most elderly people live. I gave the heads of the district headquarters of the Party of the Regions the task of gathering information about every village, hut, house of Ternopil, which is not gassed by the authority. We will study the problem and help you in a complex way. The sad thing is, in this fraction of BUT, there's now an outcast from Ternopilsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u257	Thank you. You'll prove it next time. Helen Witenko, please. The next Guriev passed it on to Mendez.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u258	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, dear, Ukrainian people, my famous Winnitzino. Today, on this important rostrum, I would like to welcome you all to the upcoming festivals -- both New Year's and Christmas's. As one of the members of the Party of the Regions said, we are on the threshold of a great holiday. Courageous and wise, Ukrainian people, representatives of all nationalities. I am very sorry that the MP Corps did not support my first bill, the draft decree to commemorate the 125th anniversary of the glorious son of Ukraine, John Ivanovich Fireyenka. We're going to celebrate New Year's. It was January 14 that John Ivanovich was born. Modern - day people called him a man of encyclopedic knowledge, work, and duty. After all, he has successfully applied his natural mastery of scholar, educator, public, church, and cultural figures to the same extent as a linguistician, literary editor, editor, editor, translator, and poet, rector and minister, Orthodox Metropolitan, and historian of the Ukrainian Church. It is difficult to say in which of the named fields of activity John Ogienko left the most noticeable mark. It is unfortunate that the MPs did not even want to hear it. I'm not saying take it. You know, let the Lord forgive me that the conductor really guided this with that damn stick, because we, who, and we should think, if the Supreme Council Committee on Culture and Spirituality supported the decision, the Ministry of Culture supported the decision, how do you understand that? We don't know how to honor our people, so we're putting the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of Ukrainian hate ideology. And then there's a question, a Russian against a Ukrainian, a Ukrainian against a Russian. It shouldn't be worth it. Let us honor and honor all the prominent people who lived and worked for Ukraine. Moreover, the work of 40 years of life of Fire is the canonic translation of the Bible in Ukrainian, which is still the most widely used and widely used text of the Holy Scriptures. Adam Ivanovich, I'm literally going to finish a few words with the words of Tetjana Vasilovna Yakovenko, a well-deserved cultural worker, a professor of teaching at the university, who made a rendition from the Bible of John Fireyenka. That's exactly what I'm saying. Perhaps the Lord has given us a path without return so that we may feel the importance of life in order to understand. and beauty, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u259	Thank you. Well, finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u260	Whether rich or poor, crooked or upright, the body of the mortal Lord will not take to heaven. Everything that belongs to the flesh will be swallowed up by the earth, and man will go to heaven as he arrives. And it will not matter whether the king, or the request, will face God as a single soul. And the Lord will ask, not about the sheep and the bulls, but about your deeds, your feelings and your thoughts, so in the good day, take advantage of the good For evil's sake, think for evil's sake. This and the other Lord gave man to keep in mind the holy word. All with upcoming festivals. And thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You have recently worn such a beautiful first man on earth, Adam.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u261	Thank you. I just have a great sympathy for Winn because my wife worked there in your theater of her own time. That's why I'm so good at it. Jaroslav Mendus, please. The man gives the word to Zybenko to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u262	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable citizens! Today, morals are popular among politicians. However, words that do not really matter a little. I don't work on a profile committee that deals with the media, but there are things that I don't think any people can go through. It is not the first month on all television channels every day that the UMC’s telecommunication company’s commercials show about JEANS’s tariffs. This video is a huge family television set. For those of you who haven't watched TV, I want to draw a story in two words. The guy and the girl are kissing at the disco, then they go to the bathroom of this facility, and in a second they come out satisfied, and the young man is showing off with a broad gesture of putting on his pants, clearly suggesting that the pair was taken care of. The advertising idea with UMC tariffs in life is coming out very quickly. We are adults, but it is quite obvious that the frequency of broadcasting this advertising story is not just an advertisement for mobile communication but also the level of morality and culture in our society. I don't want to impress the hangi, but I think, as I think, the dozens of average citizens with whom this video has been associated are, first of all, promoting depravity, moral depravity, which I think has been shown, first of all, by the customers of this story, by the TV channels that have taken the role of rotation, as well as by all our numerous national structures that seem to be in control of social morality. I have a question for the honourable members of the parliamentary committee, for the members of the National Council on Television and Radio. Do we even have any control over the content of the information space? Is there a law on the protection of social morality? Or the MPs are so busy with politics, and Nazrad is a license-winner that there is no time to watch TV by silently approving and advertising immorality, TV channels, customer companies and politicians show that it is acceptable to do the same for themselves and for members of their families. By letting their daughters and sons go to the nightclub, do responsible persons allow themselves to be treated in a similar way? I think that UMC should voluntarily remove this story from the rotation as one of the giants of domestic business, because not all ways of making money quickly allow for the preservation of honor and reputation. I demand that Nakradya give an immediate assessment of the case and provide official explanations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u263	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, please. Next Yakovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw attention to an event that was hard to miss. But one of Ukraine’s citizens could have missed it. And here's the thing. The former Minister of Internal Affairs, the best, according to the President of Ukraine, Minister of Orange Staff Yuri Lucenko has gathered media for days to make them happy with reports of his political future. Like many citizens, I was impressed by the modesty of the man’s paws. But it's not even about that. This politician announced that he is launching a new political project called “National Self-Defense”. I understood the attempt to construct a new flood that would bring a man back from political nonexistence to the top of power. I don't think there's anything weird about that. After all, this man has come down a rather thorny training path. From prime minister of the Desert to storm in March 2000, the field commander of the Orange Revolution, the minister of internal affairs, returned to the presidential reserve stable. What is the purpose of self - defense and, in fact, self - attack? Of course, it's not to consolidate the constitutional system. As I understand it, a new crusade is being prepared for Kiev. It's most likely that the constitutional system will collapse. A special focus on these purposes is given by the fact that it is not only the former Minister of Internal Affairs but the current advisor of the President of Ukraine, the highest official of the State, who is the guarantor of the Constitution. In view of this, I, Ukraine's national deputy Cibenko, am asking for an explanation to the President of Ukraine, how am I supposed to understand his advisor's statements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u265	Mikola Jacobina, please follow him, Arzhewite.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u266	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. Once again, especially today, in the context of a visit by the President of the Russian Federation, it is necessary to warn the government of Ukraine of the zeal of the northern neighbour for our national heritage and spiritual life. In Ukraine, the problem of preserving and exploiting priceless religious structures of world importance that have since Soviet times been a museum has grown worse. Part of these monuments are held in worship. Presently, claims for the complete transfer of these facilities to church institutions were increased. Today, a unique monument to history, architecture and monumental painting of the 11th century, the Kiev Kirilian Church of the Museum, which is part of the National Reserve “Sofia Kyivska”. Officials are discussing the transfer of the Kirilian Church to the Holy Kirilian parish of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church in canonic unity with the Moscow Patriarchate. The Kyiv Church of Kiril is one of Ukraine's most valuable monuments, one of about 20 preserved buildings that have been preserved until now by ancient Russian buildings, and is included in the five-year state of conservation of interiors. It itself preserves not only ancient architecture but also priceless fresco inscriptions that do not exist in Eastern Europe. These works of art and the very monument of architecture require constant supervision and study by experts. In 1996, the newly created KYRILA parish was allowed to serve in an ancient temple-museum. The experience of 10 years in conjunction with the church-museum parish shows, first of all, the problem of misunderstanding by the clergy and parishioners of the artistic weight of the building that they see as a utilitarian object. And second of all. In the context of worship, there is no objective way to preserve the memory of the damage: the burning of countless candles that bind wall paintings, icons and icons, and the presence of a large number of people in the ancient temples under any weather conditions, violates all acceptable standards of humidity and temperature, which experts have concluded are damaging, both for painting and for the construction of ancient monuments themselves. Regrettably, for most Ukrainian clerics who have received unique monuments in their possession, there are no universally recognized standards of memory protection. Thus, taking into account the uniquely architectural and picturesque value of the Kirilian Church and the small number of similar buildings in the world, it is appropriate to keep such a monument in the status of a museum with limited services. The world’s cultural and scientific community has long concluded that ancient religious monuments because of their age and uniqueness cannot be used in a more nutritious way, because they, like an elderly person, need calm and careful attention, that is, museum conditions. Our memories are no less precious than those of the world. So let us not be barbarians; let us not sin against our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u267	Orgevithin. He will be followed by Vertash, who gave Kolisnichenko the word, once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u268	A recent international scientific conference was held in Uzhgorod, with the participation of delegates from four European countries, as well as representatives from Zacarpatsk, Lvivsk, Ivano-Frankivsk, Czernowetsk region. Topic: “Derivian sacral divinity of the Ukrainian Carpathians. The problem of conservation, reproduction.” All participants in the conference expressed their concern about the state of preservation, especially the reproduction of memory, Ukrainian national culture, the unsatisfactory implementation of Ukrainian laws on the protection of cultural heritage, which is Ukraine’s unique contribution to the world’s culture treasury and is in critical condition. In connection with the aforementioned conference, it recommends that the National Cultural Heritage Protection Service, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism should develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a list of sites that are not subject to privatization, consider at a special meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the National Programme for the Conservation and Use of Cultural Heritage Objects, ensure the establishment of security contracts with users of the monuments, verify the preservation and availability of cultural values passed on to religious communities of principal buildings, and make systematic monitoring, create a list of scientific and methodological advisory bodies with respect to cultural heritage protection and the activation of public inquiry into the status of their preservation, and implement systematic monitoring, create a number of legal reforms, maintain a legal framework for the implementation of the laws and regulations governing the protection of cultural heritage. On the basis of these problems, I, as a national deputy, have made an appropriate request to the Cabinet of Ministers, on which the government is relying in the area of protection of cultural heritage. Well, given that I have some time left, I'd like to say something about the UPA soldiers. I've been researching this subject for a very long time, and for a few years, I've been researching the archives of the U.S.A., the State Archive Service, and I want to say that there were no more patriots than UPA soldiers in Zakarpatta. So I would like to welcome them just before the new year and assure them that there are MPs here in the Supreme Council who will never let your glory perish. With a feast of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u269	Stanislav, they weren't at Zakarpat. It wasn't on Zacarpatta, it wasn't. Vadim's chariot, please. After him, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u270	Vadim Koleznichenko, faction Party of the Regions, Sevastopol. I would like to congratulate the respected veterans of the Great Homeland War who truly defended our Family during the Great Homeland War with the future Christmas celebrations of Christ. You're in good health! Deeply Respected Adam Ivanovich! Deep-sea voters and colleagues! I want to ask you a few questions. Whether there are genocides in Ukraine today in relation to ethnic Russians or Russian - speaking Ukrainians. Whether willful oppression can lead to violations of the rights of Russian - speaking citizens in Ukraine, could lead to an international conflict in the Yugoslav version. Or can our country think of itself as a democratic European if we have more than six dozen laws regulating the use of exclusively Ukrainian, excluding Russian circulation. No, this state can't yet be a state of democracy, because Ukrainian mentality is very interesting. In 91, we adopted a declaration of the rights of the Ukrainian nationalities, which was the basis of our independence. But this declaration guaranteed the use of Russian in addition to the national Ukrainian language. A law had been passed on Ukrainian national minorities, which also guaranteed the use of Russian in addition to the national language. The law of the Republic of Ukraine on the use of Russian was passed alongside the State. And what do we see today? And today we see that 17 percent of Russians are about 10 million citizens of 45 percent of Ukrainians who consider Ukrainian to be Russian. As a native they become the 5th colony, they are made criminals, they are made agents of Moscow, they have no right to life in this state. I want to say that the party of regions has taken on a great responsibility and it will protect the rights of Russian-speaking citizens and Russian-speaking will be both on television and in cinematography and in Ukraine's spaces, but if we don't understand what a language issue like a religious question is going to split the state if we understand when our colleagues are blocking our mouths when we speak Russian it leads to national intolerance of xenophobia, racism of national minorities. This has already been reported and has been reported on a number of occasions by all agencies and all government agencies in other countries that observe what is happening in Ukraine. That is why I call primarily on national-conscious Ukrainians and those who are in pain for the development of Ukraine. If we want to build a state that exists for all citizens, if we are going to hurt for Ukrainian political culture, for Ukraine's multinational culture, if we want a country of flowers, we have to respect every person, every person. Only then will we become, not “little Ukrainians”, but a great nation of powerful Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u271	Please, Yuri Odarchenko. Behind him is Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u272	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, radio listeners. Regrettably, many areas of economic and social life in Ukraine allow for gross violations of legislation, abuse, and corruption. This was not an exception to the construction industry. As decided by the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, with the aim of improving legislation, we have studied the experience of city and architecture in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in specific areas. In doing so, we have faced numerous facts that do not take into account the needs of communities in the planning and destruction of territories, the neglect of basic legislative acts, or direct illegal actions. Construction violations can be broken down into several clusters of issues, the main ones being: construction takes place without taking into account general plans that are out of date in most of the population and do not meet the current requirements; because of the lack of detailed design projects in the micro-regions and neighbourhoods, there are complex and significant deviations from the current rules on the density of oblivion, floor and other indicators; the allocation of land areas is preceded by decisions that determine the target nature and basic characteristics of the objects being built; public discussions of the urban design documentation are not subject to the obligation to conduct competitions for project decisions on the construction of objects, including in the historical part of the city; public discussions of the urban design documentation are not necessarily and systemic. All these violations have taken place in my hometown of Hersson, where, among others, the Committee has studied the state of things. The city's master plan is out of date. There are no detailed plans for the construction of specific areas, including the central, historical part of the city. For example, in the center of the city in front of a district drama theatre near which there is a cathedral – the city's peer started building private structures called Hermes and Harmonia of commercial and leisure complexes. In designing these objects, the need for competitions has been ignored. Under the slogan, the existing “Pionersky” Square and the stairs leading to the historical pedestrian street of Suvorovska are actually being reduced. There are illegal land allocations that will have a negative impact on the further development of urban infrastructure. As I held a meeting at the Herson City Council, I drew attention to the city’s leadership and the public to the serious shortcomings in the building industry. After all the violations of current legislation in the city of Herson, I have prepared and sent parliamentary appeals to the procurator of the Herson district of Mr. Chernikov and the Attorney General of Mr. Medvedjk, where I request them to conduct appropriate investigations. A footnote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u273	Yes, thank you. Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u274	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, allow me to announce the statement of medical parliamentarians in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On December 19, 2006, the Libyan Court sentenced five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor to death who worked on an invitation from the Libyan side to medical facilities in that Arab country. They're incriminating consciously infecting hundreds of Libyan children with the Wil-infection virus. These actions seem to have taken place eight years ago. For 8 years, 6 health - care workers are in Libyan prisons and are subjected to constant physical and psychological tests and pressures. Many world - renowned experts in AIDS and international medical professions have expressed their reasoned doubts and protests against the fabricated medical case in Libya. The conduct of an investigation and the judgment of a court run counter to international legal standards. Evidently, the Libyan court succumbed to brutal political pressure from the rulers of that state. Obviously, the doctor and nurses of mercy who carried out their professional duties among the deserts where Livia's citizens lived were chosen by the ruling regime to pay a terrible price for internal political unrest, for medical and social problems, for human rights deficits in the interior of the country. We Ukrainian medical parliamentarians are strongly protesting the decision of the court to execute our colleagues. We call on both the government and the Libyan Parliament to put an end to the difficult eight-year trial of convicted medics. We demand that they be returned to their homeland and given full consideration to all medical and legal aspects in this process. National deputies of Ukraine: Shevchuk, Bachteyev, Grigorovich, Supper, Prederey, School, Karpuk We also hope for an appropriate response from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And taking this opportunity, on behalf of the members of the Supreme Council, I would also like to welcome Ukrainian diplomats with their current professional holiday and to assure everyone, all the staff of diplomatic service in our deep parliamentary respect for their work, to wish them success and new achievements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-22-m0.u275	Thank you. Dear colleagues, next week we work in committees and factions. Between January 2 and 5, national deputies work with voters. The plenary meeting will begin at 10 a.m. on January 9th. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Once again, welcome you all to New Year's Eve! Good for you, and I'll meet you in the session room in 2007. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
