ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, radio audiences, TV sets, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council. On Monday, July 31st, the Supreme Council continues to work, and I ask the deputies to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system, turn it on. A registration is being carried out. [[16:00:32]] There are 307 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. Traditionally, I'm going to take this opportunity and welcome, come on, all together, the name of Jan Tobacco. Today's his day. [[Applause]] We wish him creative success not only in the field he had previously chosen, but also in this field that he now became. And we're going to look at the issues that are being put into today's agenda, namely the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Reported Jemelyan’s deputy minister of justice, Inna Ivanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! You have submitted a draft law on the ratification of the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. This convention is young enough, it's only dated last year, not many countries have yet ratified it, Ukraine is a second country. But the issue that this convention solves is extremely important, and they are just about to improve the international procedure for combating this negative phenomenon of terrorism. Improved investigation procedures for these categories of crimes, extradition procedures, international cooperation procedures for the investigation of this category of cases. Along with this draft law, we have made several warnings, and this is primarily about the conformity of the Constitution with regard to the invisibility of other countries of their own citizens and the obligation of each country to prosecute citizens of that country who are suspected of committing a terrorist crime. At the same time, we commit ourselves to Article 19 of the Convention, that if we receive a request from any country with which Ukraine does not have a co-operation agreement in criminal matters, we are obliged to consider this convention to be an international legal act that gives rise to Ukraine's decision on the issue of a foreign citizen, or on the issue of a citizen who does not have any citizenship in Ukraine, in relation to which criminal persecution is being carried out in the commission of terrorist activities in another State's territory. At the same time, in article 22, we also make a warning that if any of the countries gives us some information that relates to the terrorist activity of certain individuals or legal persons, that we do not previously receive this report on the nature of the information that will be given and we have the right not to give consent to the transfer of such information. The convention allows for similar warnings. I'm asking you to support the bill. With regard to the observations of the Scientific and Expert Office on the liability of legal persons who require the establishment of this convention, I would like to say that the law on the fight against terrorism already in force in Ukraine, Article 24 provides for the responsibility of the organization for terrorist activities. These are two types: this is the liquidation of a legal person and this is the confiscation of the property of a legal person in court, the filing of the Attorney General or the filing of a district attorney. The court has the right to decide, to recognize such an organization as terrorist activity and to decide on its liquidation. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u3	Thank you, Inno Ivanovna. Is there a question? Please sign in. Five minutes, Speed Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u4	I thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for being able to express my opinion. I want to ask you, this is about three conventions, as I understand it, this is a convention about washing, searching, arresting, confiscation of income. So we have three conventions so far: preventing terrorism, laundering of search, arrest and confiscation of proceeds obtained by crime and financing terrorism, and combating trafficking in human beings. I want to ask you what stage are the other conventions that the Council of Europe is proposing today? It's a good thing that we're looking again today at the prevention of terrorism, but we need to keep moving, because today there's a big problem with ratifying those conventions that the Council of Europe has established in its own time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u5	Thank you. Now it's about ratifying one convention. It's a convention, what's connected, what I reported, with issues of preventing terrorism. As for the other two conventions you mentioned, they were signed on behalf of Ukraine. With regard to the European Convention on Laundering and the Search for Dirty Money, it was signed last November. With regard to the Convention on the Fight against Trafficking in Human Beings, it is also signed in November last year and is now preparing for ratification, preparing a package of relevant documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u6	Please, Chubarov Rephat.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u7	Thank you. It is clear that the goal is noble for terrorists to know no place at all. I want to ask you about specifics. We, as Ukraine, as a state, have a signed agreement within the SND countries on the extradition of citizens of other states if their governments are accused of committing a criminal offence. And then we don't look at it in court, but we issue it to governments, and then it turns out that there was political repression. I have specific cases with the citizens of Uzbekistan in our territory since 1998 and ending last year when the government of Uzbekistan blamed its citizens who were in Ukraine's territory in what they thought was a criminal matter. They were all politically repressed, and they are still in their prisons. Tell me, please, when governments will want to get someone, or they won't be able to take advantage of this kind of agreement, by bypassing the prevention agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u8	Thank you. This is the subject of article 20 of this Convention, which is now being presented for ratification. And she is talking about solving the issue of excluding the possibility of justification in connection with the political nature of the crime committed. And she says that only with regard to the qualifications of the activities provided for in this convention, and they are clearly defined in articles 5, 7, 9, is a clearly defined set of actions to which individuals are accused. A package of documents must be prepared, a criminal case must be broken, evidence must be given when the issue of the extradition of citizens of another state is being resolved. This whole package of documents, everything that's required, the whole procedure is here. With regard to what you have just said, of course, the case may be violated under the article “terrorist acts” and it may have some political coloring under it. But we still have this rule of ad hos and the rule of reciprocity. And if any of the countries violates the requirements of the convention, if we see a citizen or another citizen, and his actions are misqualified by another article, we can bring this issue to the decisions of the relevant bodies of the Council of Europe to ask the question that a country does not comply with the requirements of the convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u9	Please, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u10	I give the word to one of the well-known fighters with the political terrorism of Yaroslav Sukh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u11	Please, Jaroslav Suhogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u12	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Inno Ivanovna, I welcome you to this room with your statement at the plenary and wish that five years of your speech would benefit the legislative work of Parliament. But now you have a word from the government, and that's why I want to ask a question for you to the Ukrainian government, because the problem that we're looking at is the system for preventing terrorism in the world. We saw, over and over again, under the flag of fighting the weapons of mass impression, with the search for the mythical "Colchug" of Ukraine, an aggression against Iraq was launched. And now blood is shed in Lebanon, and I don't understand why the government, I think, why the Ukrainian government is refusing to assess where terrorism is. Sixty children who died from an Israeli one-time bomb or a mythical "Hesbola" that doesn't understand what he's doing. Do we get involved in political divisions under the flag of the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u13	As for the definition of what terrorist activity is in general, we will join this convention, we will not join it -- our legislation already provides an exclusive list, which is considered a terrorist activity. There is a law on the fight against terrorism and there is an article on the first of this Law, which provides an understanding: what is terrorist activity, which is considered a terrorist organization, which should be held responsible for the commission of terrorist acts. But, you know, in the light of this convention right now, it's hard for me to give an assessment of some of the government's actions right now, because it's not really about ratifying this convention, it's about giving a political assessment of the government's actions. I don't think it's my authority, but I think that when presented by the Prime Minister or another authorised representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u14	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Mikola Vasilovich Giga. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u15	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear national deputies, invited! Today's debate by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism is certainly part of the overall list of the world's most urgent tasks in countering criminal activity against humanity - terrorism. The Ukrainian Parliament cannot be foreign in this matter. It should be noted that national legislation in the field of combating terrorism has more than two dozen laws. In April 2003, the Ukrainian Law on Combating Terrorism became effective, which corresponds fully to the European Convention on Combating Terrorism ratified in January 2002 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism on Accession, to which we are considering, complements the mentioned and a number of other articles listed in Article 26 of the European Conventions and the Protocols thereto. The interpretation of the terminology used for the convention was carried out in accordance with the ten contained in the appendix to the convention of international treaties. In general, of the 20 international treaties referred to in the text of the convention, Ukraine has acceded to 18. It should therefore be noted that, in compliance with the requirements of section 7 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts and parts 5 of article 189 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on the simultaneous submission and adoption of both the bill on the ratification of the international treaty and the relevant bills that are being tabled out of the need for its implementation, it could be said that there are all the necessary grounds for making decisions regarding the accession to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism signed by Ukraine on 16 May last year. Unfortunately, our leading institutions in the field of foreign policy and law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice were too short of a 14-month deadline for drafting a whole package of bills to ratify this convention and to make a number of amendments to legislation. Today’s draft legislation seems to have been prepared in haste by appropriate workers who do not fully possess the subject. Thus, articles 5, 6, 7 and 9 of the convention provide for the mandatory establishment of criminal responsibility for public incitement to commit terrorist crime, involvement in terrorism, teaching terrorism, and related crimes. The proposed new edition of article 258 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code does not cover the compositions of crimes provided for in articles 5, 7 and 9 of the convention, nor does it comply with article 260 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure for the Creation of Unforeseen Military or Armed Forms. In addition, the convention contains a list of conventions that provide for the obligation to criminalize individual activities. In particular with regard to the illegal capture of aircraft, illegal acts against the safety of civil aviation and maritime navigation, crimes against persons using international protection, such as diplomatic agents, hostage-taking, physical protection of nuclear material, bomb terrorism, and terrorist financing. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the above mentioned actions have not been reflected in the proposed changes to criminal law. The term “other terrorist activity” is defined because of uncertainty. The lack of recognition of terrorist activity itself. I would like to point out that articles 10 and 11 of the convention provide for the possibility of attracting legal persons to the crimes described in articles 5.7 and 9 of the convention. Not only to civil or administrative responsibility, but also to a criminal that contradicts the principles of national criminal law. In accordance with article 192 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure and Parliament's rulings on articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption at its meeting reviewed draft laws on ratifying the convention and amending article 258 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the terrorist act and decided to propose that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return these two bills to the President of Ukraine's right to work. The main basis for such acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u16	Let me finish. Talk to me, Mikolo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u17	The main reason for such a decision was that national legislation did not provide for criminal liability of legal persons, as discussed in articles 10 and 11. This requires appropriate warning in the text of the ratification bill. Moreover, no relevant legislation has been introduced on the civil or administrative responsibility of legal persons for committing crimes set forth in articles 5.7 and 9 of the Convention. The Committee agreed with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate on the non-compliance of the legislative technical standards with the proposed amendments to article 258 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the return to the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, registration No. 0024 of 27.07.2006 and draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the return to the draft Ukrainian law amending article 258 of the Criminal Code, registration No. 1103 of 27.07. Please, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, put two of these two decrees to the vote separately. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u18	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I was able to make a statement because there was a report on the two bills. And perhaps we will do the right thing for you when we discuss them in a related way. Because ratification is directly linked to changes to legislation. Without each other, we cannot accept, for according to what we have already said, referring to the conclusions of the expert body that the treaty provides for, if we accept, ratify an international treaty, we need to change legislation immediately. So I think we will, we will do the right thing if we discuss these two bills together. What are some questions for the reporter? Wait, don't scream, don't scream, don't scream. You better press the button. You better press the button. Yes, please, Chubarov from the procedure, then the questions. Be quiet, it'll all be quieter.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, in order that, as Adam Ivanovich said, the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, we should conduct ourselves, he thinks, more appropriately, simply not violate the rules of the Supreme Council. We immediately heard the report of one of the speakers, immediately after two questions. If there's a ratification of the convention, let's say there's probably no objection to the MPs, it's more likely that we're ratifying it. I think on the second question we're going to have a lot of questions and intentions about the speech, because what's being proposed is not as clear as anyone thinks it is. So, Adam Ivanovich, I think we should separately discuss the first question, make a decision. We discuss the second question separately, for this is a change to the laws of Ukraine and we make a separate decision. Thank you very much. By procedure, by order.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u20	Thank you. I repeat, I remind you that we cannot ratify the treaty without making any changes to our legislation. I repeat, this is provided for in the International Contracts Act. And that's why the author of the legislative initiative did the right thing, and in this case the President of Ukraine, who introduced two bills for our consideration. The first is the ratification of the relevant international treaty. And the second is the immediate change to our respective legislation. I repeat, I repeat, we need to consider each other's questions at the same time. Yes, questions, please, three minutes. I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear reporter, we are very much ratifying various international agreements and conventions in this session hall. So, for example, a convention on the languages of national minorities, but it's still not signed by the first President, not by the second President, for several years. I want to ask you a question. Tell me, please, what's the use of wasting time with senior officials signing these conventions and agreements? What's the use? How many different treaties and conventions have been signed by terrorism, including the one we are considering that has changed in the world? Does Lebanon not warn us that no document and no international organization can influence us if an international terrorist — the United States — is behind us in one country or another? How do we make it a coefficient?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u22	Thank you. The benefits of introducing such a bill are great. It enhances the ability of law enforcement authorities to act in accordance with international legal standards in the fight against terrorism. The fact that the Ministry of Justice has not been able to prepare the changes to the Criminal Code in a qualitative manner for 14 months is not particularly the fault of the committee, nor is it the fault of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u23	Please, Nina Carpachov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u24	Right. Volga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u25	Dear Mikola Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to pay particular attention, now in voting for this bill, that when we took this decision to return to work, we took seriously the experience of the Russian Federation and the experience of the United States of America, where very often when we took such documents as to combat terrorism, we actually suppressed rights and freedoms. And with regard to the convention, and with regard to the amendments proposed by the President to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, there are large gaps. For example, there is a point: “Inciting anti-terrorist activities”. And it's very not specifically spelled out, in fact then, any active position of any public organization can be defined as an incentive to commit terrorist activity. I ask you very much to accept the position of the committee and to reject it. I'm sorry to send you to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u26	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich, Vasil Alexanderovich, thank you. Indeed, the dispositions of such an article, such as incitement to terrorist activity, can be judged differently and treated differently. That's why we require those bodies that are preparing the bill to prepare carefully and in detail so that they can't be confused, to use it for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u27	Thank you, please have a seat, Mikola Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! I'm reminding you again of the problem that we're discussing right now. According to part seven, article nine of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, if an international treaty is submitted for ratification, which requires new or changes to the existing laws of Ukraine, the draft laws are submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine together with the draft law on ratification and are adopted simultaneously. Here we have, indeed, a law submitted by the President of Ukraine and the Law on Ratification, and a law on appropriate changes to the law. Since the committee has noted the adoption of changes to the law, unfortunately we cannot ratify the convention because it obliges us to adopt changes to the law immediately. So I put these questions together so that we could discuss them at the same time. Since there were two bills from the committee, I ask Inna Ivanovna to report on the second draft, and then we will discuss them in the complex. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u28	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. As for the responsibility of legal persons not to be vocal, I quote, honourable national MPs. Depending on the legal principles of the party, the liability of legal persons may be alternative, criminal, civil, or administrative. That is, each State, depending on its legal system, allows them to establish a criminal code, the liability of legal persons, or its general part only directed at a natural person, each State determines for itself what this responsibility will be. Our nation has already taken this step, even without joining this convention. I'm once again drawing your attention to the anti-terrorist law. The 2003 Act, 24 Article of this Act provides for the responsibility of legal persons for promoting terrorist activity, for any form of participation in any terrorist activity and for defining what is terrorist activity, given in this law. Responsibility, I'm stressing it again, it's double. This is the liquidation of the legal person and the confiscation of the entire property of this legal person, and this is done by a court decision. With regard to the changes to the Criminal Code and the observations made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority and now highlighted in his report by Mikola Vasilovich. Our draft amendments to the Criminal Code propose that we extend the scope of the 258 articles of the Criminal Code to warehouses such as public incitement to terrorist activities, such as the teaching of terrorist activities and the involvement of terrorist activities. We propose that Part 1, 258 be supplemented by the words “public calls or the distribution of materials with calls for terrorist activity” that we have not been criminalized until now. That we were criminalized in 258 articles only by a terrorist act, the threat of a terrorist act, the creation of a terrorist organization and the promotion of any form of this terrorist activity. What the Science-Expert Authority is proposing to create a separate composition is a question of technical legal character, not a question of whether or not, as the Science-Expert Authority suggests, make a separate chapter, the main thing in the Criminal Code is that in our national legislation, we propose criminal responsibility for these actions. With regard to the definition of terrorist activity, the observation that we are not giving our project, yes, I am again drawing your attention to article 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Act, which says that it is a terrorist activity that includes planning, organization, preparation of terrorist attacks, incitement, organization of illegal weapons formations, training in terrorist activities, recruitment, promotion of the spread of ideology, financing. terrorist groups. And this list is exhaustive; it is complete with our national legislation in the Anti-Terrorism Act. Thus, the Criminal Code duplicates and reexplains that there is no need for terrorist activity. Thank you, and I'm still asking for your support. But in any case, making a decision about rejection means that Ukraine is consciously taking steps to prevent us from joining this convention. And if the question is, once again, I'm just saying the language of the Criminal Code, let's ask a question about what we're going to take to the criminal in the first reading. And secondly, we're going to work on an editorial, we're going to work on two compositions, if that's not an extremely principled question for you, honourable national MPs. I'm asking you to take this position into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u29	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Please, five minutes. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u30	In other words, in fact, frankly, I'm surprised at how much the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption brutally and utterly tried to get the Ministry of Justice to blame for the unprofessionality of this issue. I understand that it is because of your profession that Ukraine is one of the first to ratify this convention. They just didn't figure out what they did. They simply believed in the Chief Expert Office and reflected in their conclusion, word for word, the decision of this expert office, although they did not understand the substance of the matter. For me, the problem was that so far, articles of the Criminal Code had not been carried out simply in violation of the Terrorism Act. It's not your problem, it's the Supreme Council's problem. But I have a question for you. Please tell me who has already ratified and how many states it takes to ratify and it has entered into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u31	Thank you. Ukraine, as I said before, is a friend who is trying to make an effort to ratify. Ratified so far only Russia. As far as signing is concerned, today thirty - five countries have signed this convention. With regard to the procedures for the effective functioning of this convention, the convention provides that six of the countries that have signed this convention, four of which are necessarily members of the Council of Europe, and that is enough for the convention to take effect. So far it's just one country. So we can predict over time that for a time the convention will still take effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u32	Olga Gerasimük, I can't see. Please, Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u33	I have the following question. Whether the Honourable Deputy Minister considers that those articles, the amendments to the Penal Code that they propose to make, will actually work. Because an international convention does not simply mean criminalizing terrorist activities in criminal law, but also ensuring that those articles work effectively and could be criminalized. In the form proposed, I believe that this will really not be possible to apply them in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u34	I do not consider the obstacles to the practical application of the changes proposed in article 258. Above all, it would be the desire of law enforcement agencies to apply this rule, to investigate these crimes properly, and to apply the responsibility provided for in article 258 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u35	Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u36	Dear, Inna Ivanovna! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. So first of all, I'd like to say that it's probably wrong to blame the Supreme Council for wanting to get deeper into the very contents of the document you're proposing. And maybe take a wider look at the legislative space that is and regulates these issues. That's the first one. And second of all. What prevented the Ministry of Justice, in fact, the President who initiated the ratification of this convention, from proposing amendments to the Criminal Code in order to remove all problems related not only to the regulatory function but also to sanctions that may be imposed as a result of the breach of this convention?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u37	Thank you. I never blamed the Supreme Council for the fact that it was the Supreme Council's fault, particularly in matters of activity. improving national legislation on the fight against terrorism. As for the change to 258. That is exactly what we are proposing in our second bill to amend article 258, and to extend the scope of this article of the Criminal Code. Because at this time, right now, she's not responsible for public appeals, for spreading any information, for inciting acts, for committing acts of terrorism. The Criminal Code now imposes sole responsibility for the terrorist attack itself, for the threat of terrorist acts, for the establishment of a terrorist organization, and for the promotion of any form of terrorism by these terrorist organizations. There are only three ingredients in the Criminal Code right now. The convention, if we are trying to join it, says that each party that intends to ratify this convention is obliged in its Criminal Code to provide for even more, if at this time it does not contain responsibility for public calls for terrorist activity and for training for terrorist activities. And learning is different from creating any terrorist organization. Let's take any camp there of the Taliban, there of the Taliban, there of the others, it's just they're recruiting representatives from all over the country, but that doesn't mean they're creating a specific terrorist organization to create a specific terrorist attack. They're just recruiting experts to teach. After that, they are still alive in their own countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u38	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u39	Dear Inna Ivanovna, I would think that today we must ratify the convention itself, but given what the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Adam Ivanovich, has read to us that we have, of course, to enact both the law and why they are both presented. And yet there may be a comment by the chairman of our session today. If we have now ratified this convention, we understand that article 258 of the Criminal Code is already in force, but in connection with the ratification of the convention we want to improve it, extend it. Clearly, there is no limit to what is said to be an improvement, so there may be some questions for the deputies. So if we were to adopt the Second Amendments Act in the first reading, ratifying the convention at the same time, would it not be normal, Adam Ivanovich, from this situation and would also be a signal to an international organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u40	The discussion will show. Sit down, please, Another Ivanovna. Yes, please, dear colleagues, as we have agreed that we are joining these two issues, please sign up for the presentations on these two issues. That's how we got into 10. Let's take 21 minutes. Please, Rephat Chubarov. Prepare Sergey Clovis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u41	The Honourable Chief, Honorable Colleagues and Voters, too, are venerable! I think it's clear from my questions, let's say, the content of the speech that I'm about to make. I have no doubt that the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism itself should be ratified. And here, I think the overwhelming majority of the national MPs will also come out of this. What's important is that after the ratification of the convention, we have left no possibility in our legislation, on the one hand, to violate or retain any legislative capacity to circumvent it, to bypass it, to violate it. I've been talking about some examples and the existence in our legislation of such norms, including within the SND, that may prevent us from doing this convention to the full. And secondly, and this is what other deputies have been talking about here, and I would very much not want the changes in Ukrainian legislation that we have to make in connection with the adoption of the convention, they would, let's say, limit human rights and opportunities for the democratic development of Ukraine. There is such a danger. I would like to say that we also have, in improving our legislation, to look at the possibility of carrying out our activities in the territory of Ukraine of organizations that can be terrorist, based on the assessment of their actions. I want to say, for example, that for the past two years in the territory of the city of Aluupka, located in Crimea, is the home of the 100th Sobol Cossack, which is part of the Crimean Regional Department of the Brotherhood of Cossacks with headquarters in the city of Krasnodari. For days they carried out actions that all residents of Alubka, I don't have time to talk about it, they are clearly estimated that these, well, as one Internet publication put it very well, "Russian Fascists pick up Minhrav's property and to capture the property of Minhvr. Ukraine in Ukraine by the structures of another state. I think that we have in that law that we are obliged to adopt in connection with the ratification of the convention to foresee all such possibilities not only to prevent incidents of terrorism by our own citizens but by the citizens of other states in Ukraine. So I propose a convention for the Council of Europe to ratify. And the proposed law on making changes is to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Sergey Kluev. I can't see. Yes, then, please, Valentin Matthews. From where? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u43	I ask you to pass the word to Peter Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u44	Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u45	The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, we are now considering an extremely responsible and extremely important issue. From his solution, from when and how we solve this problem will depend very much and very much. I've heard a warning from the profile committee that there are a number of issues that aren't solved by the documents that are being submitted. But, nevertheless, I think we have every reason, even though we don't accept, let's say, today, I think the Supreme Council will listen to those warnings that were made by the profile committee. Nevertheless, do not put the problem in a very long box. Because I want to warn all of us, Ukrainian national MPs, who are called upon to make responsible state decisions, that we sometimes, without making any other decision, play with fire. Because some of our national husbands are trying so hard to please their overseas sister - in - law that they are putting Ukraine in grave danger. Because we need to understand that very often after some action, a country, not individual politicians, not individual political forces, is becoming a hostage in the country as a whole. We remember in the past that a decision had been made regarding the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent to Kuwait. Then miraculously, the Minister of Defense, who was standing on this rostrum, assured that Ukrainian peacekeepers would perform essentially peacekeeping functions, that they would never find themselves in areas of combat, and so on, and so on and so forth. And then it turns out that these troops headed for Kuwait miraculously appeared in Iraq and were in mortal danger. Few were themselves put in danger, hostage - stricken, and Ukraine. It must be understood, therefore, that these actions can attract war, including terrorism, not just to Ukraine, but to the Crusader. And that's what we have to take for granted. Today there is talk about Ukraine's promise to join the North Atlantic Union, ready to promise to send its troops to Afghanistan, Lebanon and so on and so forth. I mean, once again, I urge us to take very balanced action in making responsible state decisions, and with regard to a particular document, I propose that, even if this decision is not taken today, we should work on it in very short time and make a decision in the Hall of Meetings by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Basil Volga. He's been followed by Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u47	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, distinguished viewers and listeners, I would like to pay special attention to all of you by voting for these documents, to understand a few key points that this convention brings, as well as changes to our legislation. It is the ratification of this convention and the corresponding changes to legislation that establish the responsibility of associations, that is, legal persons, including citizens’ associations. Like political parties, like social organizations. And in my opinion, as Secretary of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, as a member of the Socialist Party at a time like this, we can actually give certain political forces the right to determine whether inciting any act by any political power of any social organization would be considered an instigation that would have serious consequences, as proposed by the administrative, including criminal responsibility. The concept of inciting is not defined, but there is such an offer. After all, we can agree that the convention itself does not have a peremptory norm, i.e. the adoption of the convention does not carry out this directly in our legislation. In the first reading, we can vote on the convention, on the ratification of the convention itself, and on the amendments to the law we can send to the President for further work. It's actually going to be a compromise and a good decision. And I'd like to pay attention, and the speaker talked to me about a certain impact on this, let's say, the American side or someone else, this is a convention of the Council of Europe. So Americans actually have little to do with this, this is a Council of Europe convention. And so my proposal, and I think the Socialist Party will take the same position in this vote. We will vote on the first reading of the ratification of the Convention and we will send a draft for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u48	Thank you. Vladimir Moisik, please follow him. Do you want out of the place? Please, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u49	Vladimir Moisik, “Our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to Mikola Onichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u50	Please, Mikola Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u51	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! There is no doubt that the subject of the fight against terrorism is very sensitive both in social, political, and legal terms. Not by chance, therefore, that Ukraine signed on 16 May last year, among other things, like all European countries, and became a party to the appropriate convention that we are discussing today. And by duly signing this document, the government, the President is addressing Parliament with the need for its ratification in order for the convention to take effect and become part of domestic legislation. It seems to me that today, perhaps not everyone has studied this document in detail, especially given that the Scientific and Scientific Administration has expressed a number of warnings. Especially when it comes to formulation, that is, the structure of the corresponding article of the Criminal Code, in particular 258, which, i.e. the Scientific and Experimental Authority, might have been more or less successful in terms of the composition of crimes. At the same time, fellow honourable Members, it is quite obvious that Ukraine: first, by ratifying this convention, makes a number of warnings, we rarely do so with you, usually only generally ratify. In this case, a number of warnings have been made that are important. First of all, it has been said that Ukraine will not extradite citizens of Ukraine to other states if they are accused of committing appropriate crimes. That is, they will be persecuted, including criminally, by means of the national legal system. The second warning that Ukraine leaves the right to be bound by the conditions set out in paragraph 2 of this convention to the party providing the information. If it does not previously receive a message about the nature of the information to be provided and does not consent to the transmission of such information. That is, Ukraine is making a number of warnings about the important protection of its citizens. And lastly, according to our faction, the documents and the ratification document itself, and the amendments to the Criminal Code, are enough, I stress, to be prepared and can be approved today, including in general. The discussion on the very design of article 258 may take place, but, in fact, as proposed, it can be applied and does not create a conflict in the application of legislation. At least the convention says that criminal responsibility can be applied if it is provided for by national legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u52	Thank you. Vadim Koleschenko, followed by Vitaly Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u53	A faction of Party regions, Koleschenko. Dear colleagues! When we consider issues related to the application of the law, we must consider, first and foremost, those on whom the law will be adopted. Therefore, in advance of my statement, I would like to say by procedure. The Scientific and Expert Division has made it very clear what necessary documents have been submitted and what comments have to be made and not done. Therefore, the representatives who spoke today and said that they could not accept those documents as a package were right. Because we do not simply want to be in Europe and accept documents, we must first and foremost adopt those instruments that will protect our citizens and the sovereignty of our State. The fact is, as a citizen, I have suffered quite a lot in my time and from the police and the prosecutor's office. Because everyone had the right to treat holes in existing criminal legislation. As a lawyer, I have provided sufficient assistance to those citizens who today and today are suffering from reckless actions by both the police and the inaction of prosecutors. Because the Penal Code is not a simple book, it is a document behind which the fates of many and many people are. And if we today agree and support this form of raw, completely reckless amendment to the 258 article of the Criminal Code, we will be faced with very serious problems, especially in situations where political instability in the State and we have a hold on at every level, beginning with the District Divisions, ending with the Ministers of the Interior. I therefore believe that today we, if we want to protect, and the Constitution and Ukrainian citizens can, on first reading, support the ratification of the Convention on Terrorism and, with regard to the amendments to the Penal Code, we must definitely return to the finalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u54	Thank you. Vitaly Shibko, please, from the site microphone. Prepare the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u55	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to pay attention to my colleagues. First. We are members of the Council of Europe, and it is very important for us to carry out all the commitments we have voluntarily made as we join this international organization. That's the first one. So the conventions that are being considered there are being considered with the participation of our representatives, and they are not of an imperative nature, as my colleague has stressed today. And we really need to go back to ratifying it today because it says what it can and cannot do. And depending on that, we make our own laws. That's the first one. Second. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, although we have not today accused any international treaties, this must be binding on us, as we, once again, have entered this organization voluntarily. And today we can do the following. We can ratify this convention today, and with regard to the second question, the changes in our legislation, we can adopt it on first reading today, and then, during the second reading discussion, we can refine it as we consider it necessary, as it impresses us. But we must by no means withdraw from any ratification of the convention of the organization in which we are a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u56	Thank you, please, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, frankly, quite a strange logic, even at times distorted, and used by the committee that suggested such a decision. Because, you know, it's a lot easier to blame people. To say that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economics is effectively exercising its powers. But perhaps there is no need or need to do any analytical work. Really. In large numbers, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have done thetatical work because in the front row of all the countries that are members of the Council of Europe have proposed your attention in accordance with the mandate of the President of Ukraine to ratify such a convention. Absolutely right Vitaj Jakovic, who just said that we are actually members of the Council of Europe and we are involved in the work of projects and in the preparation of this kind of document. Whom do we blame? We want to rework who, to send this convention back to the Council of Europe? So we send it to ourselves at large. What's the problem? The problem for me, just one, was that the committee didn't understand the comments that were prepared by the Science and Experimental Authority. Well, I can understand somewhere in science and science, how much information there is, is a huge amount of legislation. But believe me, there is one simple thing that we do not have in Ukraine as a collective responsibility, that is, a legal person. But the Deputy Minister said exactly, the matter has already been resolved in Ukrainian legislation through the Anti-Terrorist Act. So nothing new, no additional mechanisms are needed anymore, this is a framework convention that is already in the Ukrainian legislation. And if so far the Criminal Code has not been implemented in accordance with the Anti-Terrorism Act, this is Ukraine's problem, not the Council of Europe's problem, if we don't like what they're proposing in their positions. I can agree in this way that there are some technological failures, because the General Export Authority makes a note. What's not, let's say, a table of comparisons. But unless it's a question for a kind of small document that doesn't have a comparable table. Although maybe in terms of, you know, legal technology, legal technology, there's some kind of violation here, I think it can be removed very easily. But let's think that today, by simply refusing to ratify this kind of ratification tomorrow, we're going to have an announcement in all of Europe that Ukraine, which is sort of one of the first to commit itself to joining such a convention, has actually rejected the possibility of such a kind. Yesterday, literally, as I understand it, we had the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. We met him proudly, talked about how we would, you know, stick to those requirements so clearly, and now we're giving up on what we said. Russia was the first to join this document and thus showed us an example. Because part of the hall is still, you know, equal to Russia. There are no warnings. For me, we need to simply ratify and fulfil our commitments and move on through the adoption of the European Council's legislation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'd like a moment of your attention. I fully support the actions of the profiling committee and the science and expertise that have done what the laws require of us. Because it was illogical to ratify the convention and then not adopt the laws required by this convention. What would we look like in front of the world? One is and the other is not accepted. Thus, it is only right and logical that the President passed the related two bills, both on ratification and on amendments to legislation. I support those who have spoken of what we really do, we take and have certain obligations to the Council of Europe, and no one will understand us if we do not ratify such a convention. But at the same time, I'm clearly aware and I'd like each of us to realize that we can't accept the radical changes to the 258th article of the Criminal Code that doesn't fit the current situation. So let's hear what I have to say and ask you to support me. I propose the adoption of a bill on the ratification of the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism from two points. It's number one. Ratify the European Council Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. And paragraph two. The Law on Ratification takes effect from the time the Law on Amendments to Article 258 of the Criminal Code becomes effective. And so we're going to ratify, and we're going to bring about the possibility of making changes. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the law with the following two points: Ratification and the Law on Ratification takes effect from the moment the Criminal Code becomes effective. Please vote. Change. Vote. There'll be 300 votes now, don't worry. [[17:01:11]] For 293 I didn't guess a bit. Ratified, but once again, this ratification law has entered into force since the entry into force of the amendments to the 258th article. The factions? Please. 184 - Party of Regions, Block Timoshenko - 3, Our Ukraine - 53, Socialist -32, Communist - 21. Now, dear colleagues, regarding the draft law. Don't relax. With regard to the draft law amending article 258 of the Criminal Code. Registration number 1103. Let's take it in the first reading. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of this bill. Please vote. [[17:02:15]] For 271 Copy that. But I would also very much ask the Ministry of Justice, which will continue to work, and our profiling committee would take seriously the comments that have been made today in the course of the discussion on how we would really adopt a law that would meet the standards of the Council of Europe. Dear colleagues, we need to consider one more question, the matter of the Personality Order of the Interim Investigation Commission on the Investigation of the Charges of Bribery of Ukrainian National Deputies, registration number 1213. I ask you to support the proposal for inclusion in the agenda and consideration of this decision today. Please vote. [[17:03:17]] For 266 Order's on. What's going on? Dear colleagues, we've been talking on the Conciliation Board today about the fact that we've created about three, or four, temporary special, temporary, sorry, commissions of inquiry on very resonant issues. But they set up these commissions, without the approval of their personnel, and they asked the factions to make these nominations. That's why I'm going to read it, even though they say you've been given this motion. “In connection with the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a ruling of 25 July this year to establish a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the charges of bribery of Ukrainian national deputies, the Supreme Council decides: to establish that the members of the interim commission of inquiry are the following national deputies: the head of TEC, we have already confirmed this, Borstevsky, the faction of the company; the deputy of the Lukyanov, the faction of the Party of the Regions, and the members of the commission: Andros, Party of the Regions; Antipienko, Party of the Regions; Bondik, Party of the Regions; Volga, faction of the Social Party; Láško faction "Block of the Yulia Timoshenko"; Maruschenko, faction "Our Ukraine"; Odynik, faction "Our Ukraine"; Olijnik Svetoslav, faction "Block of the Yulia Timoshenko"; Portnov, faction "Block of the Yulia Timoshenko"; Sand fraction of the Regions; Sivkovic, faction of the Regions; Fesenko, faction of the Regions and School of Andry, faction of the "Block of the Yulia Timoshenko". Is there no objection? Please, Rudzkowski. Rudzkowski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u59	Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you not to include Lalashenko's "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". He just made these statements, so now he wants to avoid, then show up on the committee, and he's going to influence the decision as a member of the commission. Let him come and show, let him not include, he is an interested person.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u60	Yes, please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable voters, as I recall, the initiator of such a commission was, in fact, a deputy, let's say, who doesn't now consider himself a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, but I'm talking about another. When this issue was discussed, I said, well, let's say, such a skepticism about the creation of such committees in general, whose work would, as they say, be Russian, such a “wheat”. But since, as I understand it, there will be a vote, and in order to slightly promote the members of this committee, I would like to propose to the second paragraph to add another such kind of "to establish that, in the event of confirmation and proof of bribery, at least 10% of the amounts spent on bribes are transferred to the members of this commission." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u62	Well, that's a good, good offer. You've already gone the way we criticize, tax collectors always and so forth, and so forth. This will be a court decision. Yes, please, any other comments? You don't? None. Then let's do it this way. We are voting for Rudzkowski's proposal to be removed from this committee Lazko, but leave behind the “Julia Timoshenko Block” candidature, so to speak, to determine the candidate. Well, as far as Rephat's wish is concerned, it's clear that it's a wish, let the commission work effectively, maybe we'll write them a bonus. Yes, then, if there's no objection, please, Onechuk. Onichuka Mikoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u63	Dear, distinguished colleagues, we must respect the position of all factions who recommend to the committee of their representatives, but if the hall does not support one of the candidates proposed by the BIT, under all circumstances we must leave one offer to the commission if the replacement takes place. This means that our positions have come together and that's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-31-m0.u64	Thank you. It's just that Mikli Vasilovich, a little while I was sounding, they were distracted by the conversation, and that's the kind of offer he was making, and she fell for it. That's good. That is why, with your permission, I am voting on the whole decision on the personal composition of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the charges of bribery of Ukrainian National Deputies with the deletion of the name Lyashko and the abandonment of the quota of one candidate for the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Please vote. The name Laška, or Laško. [[17:08:41]] For 266 It's been decided. Dear colleagues! The agenda for this evening’s meeting has been a success for you and I. Tomorrow we'll be working at ten o'clock in the morning. At this meeting, the Supreme Council declares itself closed.
