ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, TV sets, radio audiences! Today, Thursday, we are opening the morning session of the higher legislative body of Ukraine. I'm asking you to prepare the deputies for registration. Put your cards in. I'd like to suggest we take a seat, tonight's pushovers, I don't think so. A registration is being carried out. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:01:32]] There are 240 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today in order of the day we should consider the question of the appointment, or the election of committee heads, the first intercessors, the deputies, the secretaries of the committees. So far, only one faction of Communists has submitted their proposals on this subject, including the distribution of committee deputies. And we're obviously going to have to finish this job by 16 o'clock today, because, actually, the deputy's job is a seat on the committee. But before that we would have to do, we've just agreed on a consensus council on this, a speech on the situation that has arisen today from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. So from each faction you get 5 minutes for the performance, to clarify the position. Because everyone understands that the situation in Parliament today is not normal, and it should become normal. So I am convinced that society should know about what is impeding the work of the Supreme Council, who is obstructing what needs to be done in order for all these inadequacies to be stopped and for Parliament to be able to work fully. So if there's such a desire, I want to put to the vote a five-minute motion for time for each faction, i.e. 25 minutes for speech and announcement from the rostrum, or from the workplace. Whoever's behind this, please vote. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:03:40]] For 237
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u2	Decision taken. 237 national deputies. Please sign up for the performance. It's recorded on the scene. Writing done. Please. The Socialist faction, who's going to act? A number of deputies were registered there. Make a deal and please tell me. John Boki has the word. Please turn on his card.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u3	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, are present on the stage near the Supreme Council! As you can see, today in the Supreme Council, two factions -- the factions of our Ukraine and the factions of the Yulia Block -- are destabilizing the situation and trying to prevent the Supreme Council from working. But the Supreme Council will work, no matter what, and I think our main task today is to continue the work of the Supreme Council in a constructive manner so that the Supreme Council, by creating permanent committees of the Supreme Council, can continue its legislative work and can decide on its main role – the legislative role, the role of stabiliser of the economic and political situation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Socialist faction will make every effort to do so. But I would like to draw attention to this situation: In order for the Supreme Council to work, it takes more than just the Supreme Council to carry out its main mission. This requires the efforts of all branches of government, and, in particular, the Presidential Secretariat, government structures and, above all, we must approach what is at the centre of the regulatory part of the Supreme Council's work. This is the creation of a full government of Ukraine. Without the creation of a full government of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will not be able to start a major construction work to get Ukraine out of a systemic crisis. If. Do, then of course all these whistles, all these so-called games of whistling opposition, they won't give anything. That's why I urge Ukrainian citizens to consider one thing -- the opposition in Ukraine has created all the conditions for fruitful work, but this job has to be intellectual, this job should be in the hands of Parliament's legislative work, not that whistle they're currently engaged in from our Ukraine's presidential bloc and the Timoshenko Yulia Block. It's not your sensible position, gentlemen, and so I think the people will appreciate it properly. In general, the opposition of one or two persons should not be based on their failure to be elected to higher positions in the state. It's not opposition, it's just-just what's called "mission fighting" in the people, that's fighting for a bigger bowl for themselves. And the opposition must work as well as the authorities to ensure that the people live properly, so that the well-being of the people can be improved to address the issue of wages, pensions, economic recovery. And all of these, you know, so-called, loudspeakers and whistles are what's called "send your mind into whistles." It's never gonna be beautiful and beautiful. But it's your business. If you choose whistles and loudspeakers to resist. Well, that's your level, and we're not going to argue with your level, as they say. I think today we should take the lead in choosing permanent committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we don't do it today, we're just gonna do it on the spot. And I call for a constructive part of Parliament, especially for smart heads in opposition, and there is enough in this room to start this work. The Socialist Party of Ukraine stands on the point that, first of all, the Parliament, which has already chosen its leadership, must move and must move towards what the people are waiting for. And the people are waiting for us to do our regular legislative work, and, I think that's what's going to make us different from the whistleblowers, and we're still here. We know how to give hope, and we know how to give perspectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u4	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. From the Party of Regions, who will speak? I see there are several deputies. Mikola Janović Azarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u5	The distinguished people's deputies, the people of Ukraine, today must resolve a very important issue, decide on the approval of the Committees and, virtually today, the Supreme Council can begin its work and address issues that are extremely relevant to our country and to our people. Such issues are on the agenda first. These are questions of compensation to our people for the cost of living, the increase in tariffs. for gas, heat, housing and utility services. Practically, the joint budgets have run out of the financial resources needed to compensate the population, for subsidies, for preparation for the winter. Therefore, the first issue to be considered by the Supreme Council is the amendment to the State Budget Act 2006 to provide the necessary funds for these tasks. The next important point is the implementation of constitutional reform, the adoption of laws on the Cabinet of Ministers and the opposition. You know that with the entry into force of the Constitution, the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers has changed. However, the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the Supreme Council, has not been able to adopt it for the past 15 years. The faction of the Party of the Regions has drafted the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which is fully in line with the new Constitution. This will improve governance in the country and ensure order. The next critical issue is the Opposition Act, the faction of the Party of the Regions has also prepared, drafted such a law that must legitimately separate the balance of power between the authorities and grant civilized rights to the opposition. The opposition must be able to control the authority and be given the appropriate authorities to do so. Dear colleagues! On 22 June, a so-called democratic coalition was established, a few days later, it broke down. What a farce today's events are in relation to the word “democracy”. Is this the best way to protect the voice of the opponent's spirit? Since then, the morbidity and the desire to seize the rostrum, the denial of the right to speak is a supreme sign of democracy. Unfortunately, what we see in the Supreme Council is not a struggle for democracy, it is a dirty and cynical struggle for power. If you, the so-called Democrats, are at least close to the likeness of the Democrats, you must accept the establishment of a majority in the Supreme Council of 241 people's deputies and give this majority the opportunity to work constructively for the benefit of our people, for the benefit of our country. Moreover, the anti-crisis coalition clearly states that it is stretching out its hand to cooperate with all those who want good, those who want stability in our country. Who wants us to live better, not invite us back to barricades, doesn't get us in the way? I would like to emphasize once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u6	Thank you, Mikolo Yanovich. I think everyone heard who wanted to hear and who didn't want to hear it would whistle again. Please, the faction “Our Ukraine” asks for the word “Lilia Grigorovitch”. Please. I'll give you my word once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u8	Lila Stepanovna, I beg you to remain silent, do not speak, you will speak when it is quiet, wait, I wanted you to be heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u9	It's my time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u10	No, no, I'll give it to you, and then you'll ask them to keep their mouths shut. You're in charge, I didn't know you were in charge of this process, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u11	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear media, fellow TV journalists, radio journalists, respected people of Ukraine Yesterday in Ukraine there was an unprecedented event that had already been baptized by our public, such as their return. Yesterday, under the walls of the Supreme Council, there was an event that raised the curtain above the totalitarian perspective of all of Ukraine, which stood at the threshold of each of us. The MPs, the factions of the Party of the Regions beat the TV operator from the STB channel and brutally removed the materials from the press. For a year and a half in Ukraine, journalists were not killed or strangled. On behalf of the People's Union of Our Ukraine, which stood near the sources of the restoration of this high right of freedom and freedom of speech, we claim that we will not allow anyone to take that value away from the Ukrainian community. We also claim on behalf of a democratic, orange coalition that will and will win that they will not return to Ukraine. They're just not gonna make it. At the same time, I would like to make a request as Ukrainian national deputy to the head of the faction of Mr. Yanukovic's Party of Regions. Is this how you start your move as the leader of the faction and the candidate for the prime minister of Ukraine? At the same time, I would like you to give legal, political and moral assessment to the actions of your deputies, including Mr. Kalashnikov, because blurry eyes, cloudy thoughts, and then, criminal acts, are a big part of your faction. I would like to remind you, Victor Fedorovich, that to adapt such members of your faction, and Kiev, the capital of the country, which is a member of the Council of Europe, would require a quarantine of at least two years, because Kiev is both mentally and geographically larger to Europe by 700 kilometers. The event that took place yesterday poses a threat to freedom, a threat to life, health, and the service responsibilities of our journalists. She was baptized yesterday by the Ukrainian community as one who returned. On behalf of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" and the Block of July Timoshenko, we claim that they will not pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u12	I have an offer about this event that happened yesterday, it's really terrible, giving the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs an order to investigate this case and report it to the Supreme Council. We will give a protocol commission to the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to investigate circumstances that violate the principle of freedom of speech, the principle of civil rights of citizens, particularly the rights of journalists, and report to the Supreme Council. I understand that some MPs don't want to hear it, but that's the point. Nevertheless, the right will be protected and I think it will be one of the signs of a democratic state. There are representatives of the Communist faction. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u13	Dear citizens of Ukraine, our constituents! What is happening today in the Supreme Council is the result that, on the basis of political reform and changes to the Constitution, a real process of transferring real power from the corrupt oligarchic environment of the President in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has begun. And that is precisely the subject of these disputes and the struggle that has taken place today at the disadvantage of further organization of work in the Supreme Council. I would also like to state that the anti-crisis coalition has declared its readiness to take responsibility not only for the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, but for the entire organization of government in Ukraine, from Kiev to the village council, and is ready to form all the authorities for it. To solve the painful questions of life. Is that where we started? We began, first of all, by meeting our obligations to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. By unlocking the work of the Supreme Council, they began to form the governing body of the Supreme Council. You were witnesses in which difficult, difficult conditions formed leadership and elected the Head of the Supreme Council, elected the First Deputy. We have started today the process of forming the leadership of the Supreme Council, including by preparing proposals for a list of committees, and today we have suggested that we go to the specific issues that will ensure the organization of committee work. I mean, personal composition and committee management. We have also, by starting a real step towards fulfilling our commitments as an anti-crisis coalition, proposed to the President of Ukraine a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. And today, we think that the President of Ukraine deliberately blocks the further organization of the executive branch without responding to the proposals made by the anti-crisis coalition. We are ready to consider urgently the President's appointment as Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I say that a faction of communists is also willing to make a commitment over the course of the week to help shape the actual composition of the Cabinet of Ministers based on the main fact that, under the anti-crisis conditions, the anti-crisis coalition and the crisis phenomena that accompany our lives today, today, we need to form a high level of responsibility of the Government and properly prepare the staff assignment. We are prepared to do all of this, and we insist that the President should present the Supreme Council for its consideration and open the way for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers' personal composition, the Prime Minister's candidacy. I declare that “Our Ukraine” and BJUT are blocking the formation today of the Supreme Council committees, which prevents the anti-crisis coalition from responding to the President's request to elect and swear by the judges of the Constitutional Court. Thus, “Our Ukraine” and “BUT” are being implemented, and I have the impression that the President himself is involved is deliberately blocking the Supreme Council because they do not want to implement the position of political reform on the real transfer of power to the Supreme Council. This makes it impossible for us to solve the issue of preparing our country's budget, setting tariffs on residential services, harvesting, prices, wage levels and much more. I would like to inform you, citizens of Ukraine and honourable colleagues, that yesterday I met with the head of the government of the Russian Federation to meet with you on our proposal to start a new negotiating process regarding the solution to the gas crisis in Ukraine. I inform you, the government of Russia is ready to accept the delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament along with the leading specialists and start a real process, like good neighbours of mutually beneficial cooperation at the level, and parliamentarians of our governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u14	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Will anyone be speaking from the Yulia Block of Tymoshenko? There are no wanters. Turn on Julia Timoshenko's microphone. Is the Turk gonna talk? Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u15	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies. What is happening today in the Supreme Council cannot be called otherwise than the anticonstitutional rebellion. When the community-crime group joined with the advisors to establish a totalitarian system and dictatorship in Ukraine. We're going to fight this. And it's Yulia Block Timoshenko who claims that we're going to the opposition, to the communist-crime majority, and we're going to protect the Ukrainian people from trying to bully them again, from trying to rebuild the worst of their manifestations in Ukraine. That's why we're talking to MPs who divide our positions to join our fight. No culinary negotiations with those who betrayed Ukraine. There's no broad coalition that's going to be a broad grave for Ukraine. We ask our colleagues from “Our Ukraine” not to negotiate, but to join us. Join us to fight this serious threat to our nation. We turn to the Governing Body or to those who perform these functions to stop the abuse of the Constitution, the law, and the Rules! Return to the Supreme Council in constitutional order, return to the Supreme Council Rules and meet all its requirements! We believe that this is the only way to return to Ukraine to parliamentaryism. And the next. We believe that today, through the efforts of those who betrayed Ukraine, who tried to bribe, blackmail to make a new majority in Parliament, we believe that they have crossed the line beyond which Parliament should be disbanded. And that's why the Yulia Block of Timoshenko refers to the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka. Victor Andryovich, you don't have to worry, you have to do your presidential duty and sign a decree to dissolve a parliament that has disgraced itself. Dear colleagues! It is under such conditions that the return to the Constitution, the return to legislation and the Rules of the Supreme Council can continue to work normally. And we call on those who today do not allow Parliament to work properly, to factions of regions, to socialists, to communists: stop betraying your constituents, stop destabilizing the situation in society. We believe that it is your actions that lead to the turmoil in Ukraine, that your actions lead to a rise in prices, a socio-economic danger that threatens our citizens. That's why we're talking to you: come on, stop, get back to the constitutional legal plane, and that's where the Ukrainian Parliament can work. We address the Ukrainian people. Dear friends! We understand that we are tired, we understand that you have failed, but today there is a threat not to Parliament, today there is a threat to Ukraine! And it is Ukraine that we must protect together. We'll win together! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-13-m0.u16	Honorable MPs, distinguished radio audiences, and television viewers. Since the Governing Body was mentioned, I am obliged to comment on what has been said here. Obviously, after who responds to Turkey's call to create conditions for the work of the Supreme Council, you can see who's blocking the work. But it is not necessary to take this to heart, for these people will still regret that they acted in this way in violation of article 53 of the Rules, in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the standards of normal human conduct. Time will come, and not much time will be needed. It is our happiness that Victor Yushchenko adheres to the Constitution, and I think he will continue to do so, because it is only on the basis of the requirements of the Constitution that clearly foresees the basis for such an action. There's one more thing to say. This whistle is an attempt to tear down the work of the Supreme Council, which is designed only to buy time and not to form the Cabinet of Ministers during the period set up by the Constitution. But the initiators of this session do not consider one detail: even if two months go by, the right to leave the President will not arise because the government is not retired. And when he retires, it takes two months to form a new government. The government has delegated authority to the newly elected Supreme Council, but it carries out its duties until the Supreme Council forms a new Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, the design of whistleblowers gives nothing. There's no perspective on this action, it's just writing down in your ignorance of legal norms, in not knowing the Constitution, in your willingness to engage in provocation instead of giving each other a hand and working together. It's all going to happen. It'll end without a doubt. A few announcements. First. Yesterday, the Cave Court considered four motions concerning the legitimacy of the Supreme Council’s leadership and the creation of a coalition, and on all four motions, he dismissed the lawsuits. I think that's a concrete argument about whether or not we work on the basis of the law. Finally. There will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 3 p.m. To this day, you need to make proposals for factions in the Supreme Council committees, proposals for committee leaders, their first intercessors, their deputies, and their secretaries. At 16 p.m., we'll consider and confirm these questions. Thus, from this day forward, the committees will begin to work and the intentions of overthrowing the work of the Supreme Council will be reversed. I think those who whistle today understand well, and not even those who whistle, but those who organize these. This is madness in the Supreme Council -- they'll understand that we have to do something different. Not only to be deaf, not to hear the word of one’s opponents or colleagues, but also to listen to what is said. I'm calling a break until 4:00. The morning session is closed. Break until 4:00.
