ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u1	I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. A roll call is being made. [[16:02:24]] The system records the presence of 430 National Deputies cards. I declare the evening session open. It is proposed to consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 21 of the Basic Law of Ukraine on Culture, with proposals from the President. And this is what Yuri Bogdanovichkowski of the President will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine has returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a law that has been set out to propose that it be repealed. What's the matter? These are measures that will help to preserve cultural institutions that are owned by municipalities, villages, and cities. This law, which was adopted by the Council of previous convocations, suggests that the decision on the liquidation of such institutions should be made by a local referendum with further approval by the appropriate central authority of the executive branch. By absolutely sharing the problem of maintaining a network of cultural institutions, the President of Ukraine cannot agree with the solution offered by the Supreme Council in the adopted Law. Well, notice, article 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that municipal property management is carried out by local governments, or by the territorial community directly on equal ground, according to the decisions of these bodies themselves, or by the community itself. Here is the only way: a local referendum. Moreover, municipal property is owned by the community and there are no other owners. It is predicted that the referendum decisions, which should have a direct effect, would then be approved or not approved by the State Executive Authority. So here we have an intervention of the supposed executive authorities in the constitutional powers of local self-government. So once again, I want to emphasize that it's not because someone is opposed to preserving cultural institutions, but because it's an inadequate way to solve this problem. The president proposes that this Law be repealed and that these problems be solved in a different way. In particular, this can be done by providing adequate funding for the cultural sector in the State Budget Act of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u3	Is there a question for Yuri Bogdanovich? There's a question. Please sign in. Three minutes, that's what the Rules offer us. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u4	I ask you to pass the word to Suhim Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u6	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, the point is that, if you remember, we passed this bill, I think, early this year in 2006, and it was conditioned by this situation: at the beginning of the heating season of 2005, many municipal institutions, cultural institutions ended up in what is called a mortgage. When they took loans to buy gas. And after that, these cultural institutions just didn't exist, they didn't exist. I understand, from the point of view of legal, legal, legislative, constitutional, perhaps this bill is not perfectly drafted. But please tell me, just by financing, you understand it very well right now, there are no establishments, now that there's no, but then maybe this money will be, how can you save all the facilities, the rest of the cultural institutions, especially in the villages of the city type, the district centers or those villages of those district centers that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u7	First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that many of these problems have been caused by our decisions, including those on the State Budget, which have been passed almost since Ukraine's first year of independence. I want to remind you that so far, cultural workers are still mostly in places, I mean, they're at 0.75 bets, and that's a lot, because they've recently been funded by 0.4 to 0.5 bets. What's more, we've decided to transfer to the communal property of those socio-cultural institutions that were previously on the balance sheet of enterprises, including cultural buildings. However, we failed to ensure that these institutions were properly financed by local governments. Local budgets are still in a rather pitiful state. And you know very well that this year there is actually a reduction in the portion of local budgets in Ukraine's consolidated budget, if you don't mind funding the local police. So once again, there's a lot of funding involved. And the reason for the delay is that there is no money in the local budgets. So in our will, let's change that, let's let local self-government maintain these cultural establishments, no one will eliminate them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u8	Miroshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u9	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, please tell me there is a problem and there is a big problem. I support your statement in the part where you say that we cannot afford populist laws, laws that actually do not allow us to solve the problem, but to create certain inadequacies, inconveniences. In fact, I urge my colleagues to support the President's proposals. At the same time, we realize that there is a problem and that funding alone cannot solve it. What is your view of solving this same problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u10	I'm deeply convinced that 98 percent of the problem is lack of funding. That's where the main root of the decline in cultural institutions is. Today, there are half a librarian in the rural library, not a single head of an art group in the club, not burning in clubs for decades. And it's not because they have bad hosts, it's because they really don't have money. So 98% is funding, and 2% can be written down on some, well, the unwillingness of some local or relevant councillors to support the relevant authorities. But I say again: “If there is sufficient funding, no one will liquidate these cultural establishments.”
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u11	Okay. Have a seat, please. The word is given by Vladimir Yavorowski of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u12	Dear lawmakers, our constituents! A few such remarks to the biography of this law. There was a hearing about the state of Ukrainian culture and then, in one voice, everyone was talking about the very fair thing, that we really need to protect these defenseless, unfortunate remnants of culture, the signs of culture, even more accurately, scattered across Ukraine. Because, well, frankly, today in the villages, it's very, very difficult to distinguish a farm with broken windows from a former house of culture where something has happened. In fact, it seems that only yesterday did the Germans withdraw from this territory, for example, and there is still a bit more smoking. It's an absolute fact, it's a reality. It was then that the Parliament’s previous composition called for an obligation on the Committee on Culture to draft such a bill to make it impossible, let's say, for the final production and expansion of rural clubs, small brigades, there, clubs, rycenters, and so forth. And on this ground, on this emotional wave came this bill, which was then very friendlyly voted by the Supreme Council. But further, when this law was to be signed by the President, there was a number of, indeed, incomparableities, as spoke of by a colleague of President Yuri Klukkowski. Because, indeed, the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government grants local self-government authorities full rights, including the holding of local referendums on a particular subject, such as for example, whether it is selling or passing on to other users of these cultural activities. Because we think that this bill is somewhat in violation of saints' saints, we're just talking about local self-government, it has its very certain niche, very clear and so forth. That is why we today are not reaching out to him. Because, once again, there's nothing special about this bill. Our committee has considered this very meticulously and considered it necessary, indeed, such a bill is our legislative error with you, the previous parliament, because someone here said that this year. [[The dry one seems to have said]] This was accepted in the spring of 2005, then in a mood. That's why I think we're going to do very faithfully if this law is actually removed from all of Ukraine's legislative fields and everything that's worked before that. Since I still have a little time, I was really asked this question by Klukkowski, maybe one of the most painful questions, you were asking: What do you want to do next? Because you know, in the village, I have a house 60 kilometers from Kiev, and there is no house of culture at all. There used to be a church, then they built a house of culture, then they gave it to the church, and now nothing at all. Youths gather at this miserable gandeliq, drink a hundred grams each, rub themselves, shake themselves, exercise, and disperse. How should we proceed? How do you pick all this up? Because today we're going to imagine Ukraine without any of these points of these cultural fires. I'm not talking about the movie anymore, although the committee's trying today, and it's going to the Cabinet of Ministers, so that we can still get these capillaries, these cinemas, they're going back, either way, to the district center. Because today's actually a movie is just on TV, and that's all. Tomorrow we're having a big, by the way, very massive action -- hearing about the situation of the Ukrainian cinematographer at the committee level. And we're going to be very detailed and very hard to talk about, even so I say. What do you really want to do? Let's look around. We're on our backs looking for a version. I'm convinced that saving in one-one is what we've talked about for a long time and no government, and no parliament has dared to do it, is actually building a budget the way it's built around the world: down to the mountain. Not the money goes to Kiev. Here, they're going to be torn apart by what's left over, by what's left, by what's left of the area, by what's left of the area. There's no way to get to the house of culture, nothing. As a result, local communities need to have their own budget. So they know what to put these coins in. Or, say, in FAB, the same one that's needed in the village, whether in a house of culture or on the road or in gasification. That's all I see is the way out. Thank you and I ask you not to impose, not to overcome the President's veto, because it's fair, from the point of view of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u13	Is there a question? Jaroslav Mikhailovich asks questions. And you want to ask? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u14	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Vladimir Aleksandrovich, please remember. There was a time when children’s gardens in Ukraine were shut down as a result of a fall in fertility and under-budgeting. Today, in large district centers, not just in the district, the problem of kindergarten. Because sources of funding have changed. If that doesn't happen, we'll find sources of funding if there's not enough budget, but there will be no more material and technical base for these cultural centers. That's why I have a question for you as the head of the profile committee. Please tell me which of these points is the position of the Ministry of Culture. Because we have, you know, not enough and education is financed, and health care. It's amazing that we have to destroy both schools and field and obstetric points. So what is the position of the Department of Profiles at your committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav, for an interesting lot of questions. Well, I'm about to make it clear that neither I nor you have anything to do with the fall of birth in Ukraine. Am I right? Thank you. The second question. You're right about the fact that we're really only talking about naked walls with broken windows. In fact, there's absolutely nothing there. The attitude towards culture, like it's not bitter, all the governments that were, I don't single out, I don't even single out, I don't single out, I don't single out, I don't single out, I treat culture as something that's left over, and then we're going to fold it down. Unfortunately, this budget has remained the same sad, if you want, even a tragic figure. 820 million, at the time, I was speaking from this rostrum when 12 million seemed to go to the forest farm and to the hunting grounds of the President's Secretariat. And we suggest we take it out of there and give it to culture. The same is true in the Cabinet of Ministers. Because today we're in this steprene skin, we can only redistribute the digit that is a little bit. And I have to tell you, I think we did the right thing, Jaroslav. Imagine the situation. At cultural institutions, and five in Ukraine, the State Budget is being allocated, well, with the Special Fund, 200 million. 100 million goes to the institute of our colleague of the Flood yesterday, and 100 goes to the other four. We did the right thing by cutting him off a little to share with others. But I'm telling you again. It's not an increase in funding, it's just a smarter redistribution. There's nothing else. The Ministry's position is normal. We work with them, but what can they do? The only thing? I'll tell you this, just be honest, using the money you have. Unfortunately, it's not all right there today. I'll tell you, there's some nests where this money's going to be pierced. We're going to control it. It's our function now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u16	Volodymyr Alexanderovich until no one asks for word. You think if we were to adopt maybe such a normative act, without reclassifying the relevant institutions at the local level, they can't be used as collateral and so on. Because this is a mechanism in which some dignitaries try to take ownership. Maybe we can prepare a law like that and then the President will back him up. I think it's kind of half a step ahead. And also, you used a very beautiful comparison to say that the Germans had just left. You know, there was such a great literary critic Vitaly Koval, you knew him well. So he wrote about the situation you were talking about: “The Germans are already at the station and there is no one” by addressing their friends. Please, how do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u17	Alexander Alexanderovich, you're right, I'm absolutely with you right now, because when we were preparing, and the committee was preparing this bill, that was the idea. But sadly, it was simply illiterate. That's why you're right. Come on, the committee's gonna work, and we're gonna make a bill that no one's vetoing anymore. But let's, uh, let's just keep these leftovers, or we'll have them preserved somehow. I think we're going to do a very good job. I promise that the committee will prepare such a bill by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u18	Thank you. Please have a seat. Take into account the proposal made by Vladimir Alexandrovich, and I am voting on the President’s proposal to repeal this law because there are no legal mechanisms or constitutional mechanisms for implementation. Please, there's a vote. [[16:20:08]] For 377 The decision is made. The issue is being considered, the Act on Antarctic Activities, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, reports on this subject, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Ogrizko Vladimir Stanislavovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u19	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The president proposes that the law be rejected by a number of comments. I'd like to tell you what the comments are about. The current international legal acts define the specific legal and political status of Antarctica. Under the Antarctic Treaty, no action or activity creates any right of sovereignty in Antarctica. At the same time, the series of articles of this law, namely: articles two, nine, 10, contain positions that can be considered as extending Ukraine’s sovereignty to Antarctica. This is unacceptable. Second point of view. The law under consideration does not provide for effective mechanisms for ensuring coordination in the activities of various state bodies and scientific institutions. Instead, there is only one definition in articles six and seven, but unfortunately not named by the central executive authorities who could be involved in such coordination. Such a lack of clarity can lead to negative consequences for the implementation of this law. The third point concerns articles 16 and 17 of the Law. They contain a reference to Appendix six, “Material Responsibility”, resulting from extreme environmental situations to the environmental protection protocol to the Antarctic Treaty. But the point is that the specified protocol supplement is not ratified by Ukraine and has not become effective for Ukraine. Article 18 speaks of the general principles of the protection of the Antarctic environment. [[This is the fourth point of the President's remarks.]] At that. Yet, general international requirements are repeated, but there are no specific ways to meet these requirements. The fifth paragraph of the President’s remarks refers to article 22 of the Act, which provides against the constitutional prescriptions for the appointment of representatives of Ukraine in international organizations from the Antarctic activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is contrary to article 106 of the Constitution. Nor does the law provide for the resolution of a number of important issues in accordance with the international agreements on Antarctic activities that Ukraine is a party to. [[And this is the sixth point of reference.]] In particular, it is about ensuring access to relevant information on Antarctic research, determining how to register for Antarctic activities, assessing environmental impact and a range of other issues. Regrettably, there are numerous repetitions, contradictions, and all the restrictions it foresees should be justified and be consistent with the practice of operators in the Antarctic Treaty area of operation and with the international obligations of Ukraine. Under these circumstances, the President proposes that the Act “On Antarctic Activities” be rejected. Instead, it is proposed that a bill be drafted to meet our international obligations and national interests. Please support the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u20	Is there a question for the reporter? Yes, I can see that. Please sign in. Three minutes to ask. Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u21	I ask you to pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u22	Please, Lilia Stepanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u23	Dear Volodymira Stanislavovich, sharing the President's full proposal on the rejection of this law, and all seven points of President Stanislavovich's remarks, I would still like to ask you to announce paragraph one again for us: is it really about the issue of sovereignty in the territory of the Antarctic lands?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u24	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Indeed, it is a matter of interpretation. And the current legislation can provide for claims to the Ukrainian side that, by referring to our domestic legislation, it seems to claim jurisdiction over Antarctica, which is unacceptable. So the point is to make this Law legally accurate, which would rule out situations where the Law can be interpreted both in such a way and in such a way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u25	Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u26	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Volodymyr Stanislavovich, after all, the people who, on behalf of Ukraine, travel from Ukraine and engage in activities of science, other activities on the territory of this continent, exist. How do you see the solution to this problem? It's obviously about what they are, their status is not defined, it's about social protection, and it's about pensions, obviously. It's just obviously the reward of money and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u27	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind you that there are a number of laws that already regulate our activities in Antarctica. It's about protecting the environment, protecting the air, protecting the topograph. I mean, it's about science and science and technology and hydrometeorology and stuff. So there's already a legal basis for regulating these things. Unfortunately, the law does not give a clear answer to the very questions you are talking about. So that's why the President's proposal is to be tired of adopting the law, but that law that would answer all the questions you're asking today, including you. Sadly, the law in question does not provide a clear answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u28	He's a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u29	Vladimir Stanislavovich, it's, well, you know, that the science and education committee didn't support you, and how much you own the situation that Antarctica can be spread to those countries that are doing scientific work there, and this is a huge Klondike for the future, including Ukraine. If we do not accept this Law today and tomorrow, we simply limit our future generations. Why don't you just think you can send this law to work?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u30	Thank you for asking. I'd like to say that it only works within the limits of the powers that are assigned to me. I'm proposing the things the President has defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u31	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Thank you for the report and for the answers. The committee’s chairman, Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, has a say in this regard. A kale? Ah, Mikhailo Vasilovich Zubec. I'm sorry. What does science think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education has considered the President of Ukraine's proposals for the Antarctic Act and agrees with part of the President's specific proposals and observations. But the committee cannot agree with the President's finding that there is no law at all. First of all, Ukraine's activities in Antarctica are important to the state, helping to enhance Ukraine's international authority, strengthen its scientific and technological potential. Second, the presence of Ukraine in Antarctica allows Ukraine to undertake new scientific research that is important to the economy of the state and science, to have quotas for the use of marine living resources and to open up access to the future to the rich natural resources of Antarctica. Activity in Antarctica already provides an opportunity to make money: catching wings, tourism, and it can be profitable. Therefore, Ukraine’s policy regarding Antarctica must be determined by law. The proposed law regulates the powers of central executives, the legal and physical responsibilities of Antarctic entities, the financial security of Antarctic activities, and the social status of polarists. In the President's proposals, I repeat, there are specific comments to these provisions of the law. Some of these observations are accepted by the committee. And we want to process them, we want to take them into account when we're working on them. The Chief of Control made the same offer. Science-expert management. The Committee therefore proposes to the Supreme Council not to agree with the President of Ukraine's proposals on the rejection of the Antarctic Act and asks the deputies to support it by sending a law for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u33	Thank you. I understand the position of the committee. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss this? None. Let's all agree that there is a committee proposal and our expert board that the President's remarks are correct. He's concerned that there are certain inadequacies in the law, but he needs to be redrafted and re-directed, taking into account the President's observations and considerations that have been expressed here, to be re-signed to the President already with his position taken into account. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. The draft is in your hands. For processing. [[16:32:27]] For 363 Decision taken. Please ask the committee to work on it more quickly and bring it back to the table so that the problem can be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, in the list of issues that are proposed for consideration today, you have a few questions, each of them in front of the eyes that are scheduled to be considered by the simplified procedure. This is the registration number of documents 1097, 1043, 1248, 1037 and so on until 2187. I am voting on the proposal to consider these issues in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[16:33:31]] For 346 That's the procedure. Thus, a draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian State Service Act is being considered. [[on the pension of government officials recognized by persons with disabilities]] This is the Suškević project and Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich will report on this. I don't see a reporter. According to Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Presence? I take it off the table then, and I'm surprised to hear that MP. It doesn't matter what fraction. Project 1043. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[about the order in which out-of-order elections are scheduled]] [[Project M.Pojenova awarded on June 14, this year]] Reported by Pożynov Aleksandar Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u34	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear National Deputies! Mikhailo Zyjinov, “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Before I go to law school, I'd like to go to the hall. In the last plenary week, charges were made against me regarding comments about the tragic death of people in the West Mine. Regrettably, unverified, distorted words are captured and distributed by the media and are heard at official levels.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u35	Mikhailo Alexandrovich, please. In accordance with the Rules, the reporter should speak on the subject for which he took the floor. You will then, if anyone touches the subject, take the line separately, and now report the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u36	I am by law, Alexander Alexandrovich. It's literally 30 seconds. Otherwise, as a provocation, I can't call it. First of all, this provocation in front of the miners. This repeated scandal distracts the attention of the common people from the problems that have been and remain unresolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u37	Turn off the microphone. Mikhailo Alexandrovich, I'm obliged simply, please, let's essentially go to law school. Then you'll find time in the form of a statement, tomorrow, for example, to make an appropriate comment. Turn on the microphone to report on the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u38	The proposed bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government on the Order of Elections, No. 1043, was based on the idea of improving the mechanism for the early termination of powers and the appointment by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the successive elections of rural, rural, urban, district, district councils and their heads. Unfortunately, we have had a situation where some district, district councils can make illegal decisions and are not responsible as a college body. But given today that even that part of it does not want to listen and is governed by legislation, but is governed by political purpose, I would ask that this weight not be used against opponents, but not by law, be removed from. We agreed with fellow author Stephen Antonovich Dawimuk, and I ask that this bill be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u39	Since the committee is proposing the same thing, then, with your consent, I am asking questions about the vote on the repeal of this law. Please. [[16:37:41]] For 382 Thank you, decision taken, 382 deputies agreed. And the same applies to, I mean the similarly proposed draft law on the introduction of additions to article 46 of the Law on Local Self-Government. [[concerning the holding of the first district, district, district council session]] This is the King's project. Hence, the national deputy of King Oleg Anatolyovich reports on this matter. And the report is by Kuzmenko Sergey Leonidovich. Well, let's listen to the committee's opinion on this. You have a project on your hands. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u40	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Dear voters. The committee reviewed the draft law and suggested that it be re-readed for the first time. This decision is agreed with the project authors and the committee's decision looks, well you have it on your hands, but I remind you, it looks like this. To reread it and work with the committee. The project raises important questions about the first steps of the newly elected councils, the holding of the first session. In practice, after the March elections in many, many cities, in many areas and areas, there was the problem of holding the first session, when the head of the territorial election committee and the month, and the second month, he is, he is, and he is not, and he is in charge of the session. Therefore, the procedure for conducting a session to resolve the question of who is leading the first session, where it is held and so forth, requires further adjustment. But in the way that the authors of the project have chosen, it is not entirely consistent with both the existing normative acts and the functioning of the Constitution. So the committee's proposal agrees with the project's authors. For rereading and processing his authors along with the committee. The committee is asking for the support of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u41	Sergey Leonidovich, I'm on my way. We have a motion for a ruling from your committee. He was signed by Tihonov, Ponomarenko, Horbatük, Lukyanov, Kovalevski, Kuzmenko, where he says so. Item 1. Take as a basis a project on completion and then assign it to the State Building Committee to work on it, taking into account the proposals made by the national MPs. I don't have another document.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u42	Alexandre Alexandrovich, I apologize. I just concluded on another bill. That's what you're reading. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u43	That's what we're taking into account. Attention, Mikhail Vasilovich. The point is, Kuzmenko had to report on the front question. There we made the right decision. Well, the disturbed MP, he doesn't report much, he hasn't been a deputy for two calls, so clearly he's lost it. But the point, I repeat, is that the committee proposes to take the basis for this document, in view of the fact that both the drafter of the bill and the committee express one position. Any questions? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. Who do I want to say on this point, referring to the reduced procedure: two in, two in, against? Who will speak in favor? Sign up. Klukkowski and Spódarenko want to speak up. Now, if anyone wants to speak against it, sign up. Tomenko, Nadosha wants to say no. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u44	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues! I want to ask you to support this bill in the first reading. The point is that it is aimed at solving a problem that through certain, I would say, yes, insufficiently precise formulations in the Law on Local Self-Government are already creating a number of problems in practice for a number of local councils. This is the mandate of the territorial election commission and the head of the territorial election committee after the elections were concluded during the first sessions of the local councils. And we have in practice a whole series of abuses when the will of one person who is not elected by a deputy breaks down the session, breaks in sessions, in short, interferes with the work of the authorized authority of local self-government. So this bill needs to be adopted on a basis, and it needs to be clarified a little bit in terms, and this is a committee, I think, going to be successful. I'm asking you to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u45	Thank you for being so concise. I don't see Ivan Vasilovich. So Pachesuk, who's written down, wants to support him, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich? Please. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I want to remind and confirm the rational grain in Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski's speech: it is the imperfection of the basic law on local self-government and elections that has led us to have long-term territorial communities, such as Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovska, other district centers, towns in tension. Why? But because, in fact, an irresistible person is the head of the territorial electoral commission, he can apply, you know? It wasn't the veto, it was just some kind of bullying. He's hiding, he's running away, there's no commission, there's no first session. There are some suspicions about one political, another force. Then these political forces, meeting in self - government, in places, are forced to make decisions in the interests of the territorial community, and there is already a lack of trust among them, not by the leaders of these political forces, but by a particular individual. That's why I think this bill, colleague of the King's, is suffering from it because you know that the Dnipropetrov region has been in this state for a very long time: the courts are going on, the courts are going on long, the courts are very boring, one side, the other side instead. I want us to settle this case properly. Not once have we done this here in the session room. That's why I think that the good will of the faction of our Ukraine and the faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine will support this bill, because it is primarily necessary for us to take into account and follow-up interrogations, because in this life it is not over, some factions are now preparing for future parliamentary elections. And they will take place, and they will become, and they will be the election of the heads of the cities, and they will be the election of the heads of the villages of the country. That is why we need to resolve this issue at the legislative level. And I'd like to ask the local self-governance committee, the state-owned construction committee, to update this bill in an optimal manner, without delay, so that we can accept it as a whole. It will contribute to the stability of our Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u47	Now he wants to speak against this project. Don't you want the tip anymore? I didn't get you. Then please, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Oh, Olena, please speak. The name's out. Please. Bodnar, please. She approached and said that. Bodnar. Turn the microphone on. Maybe you have a card. Go to the rostrum, and people will see you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u48	Before this bill, from a positive point of view, we can say that there are many negative remarks. First of all, the election of the chairman does not preclude delays in the election of the board head. Therefore, it is appropriate to define clearly the procedure for selecting the head and the rights and responsibilities of the presiding officer in this procedure. Secondly, the bill retains a different approach to the convening of the first sessions of councils, according to which the first sessions of rural, rural, urban and territorial elections are convened by the territorial election commission, and the regional and regional councils are convened by the respective territorial election committees. There are also editorial flaws. The session is a form of work at all. Therefore, the appropriate wording: “The session may elect the presiding officer and continue the elections”, is unacceptable. It would be more appropriate to say “the session is being chosen” and “the work of the session continues until the election”. And given also that there are some shortcomings, and the fundamental flaws, I propose that this bill work on work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u49	Thank you. Thank you. In fact, the committee suggests the same thing. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, please pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u51	Tomenko's talking. Listen carefully! It'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to one very, very important matter, and in my opinion, I would like our colleagues -- the national MPs from the Party of Regions who suffered during the fight at the Dnipropetrov District Council -- to listen to me, too. To my deep, I understand the logic of this bill: there was a conflict at the Dnipropetrov district council session and, in fact, our colleagues were physically injured, some of them walked away from it morally for a few days. But if we change the laws after every fight, I don't think it'll be effective. Because all you're suggesting is a response to the conflict in Dnipropetrovsk. So now I'm telling you, for example, there's another story: Opposing forces block the session and they don't pick the chairman, and the conflict continues. So let's say we don't do another procedural rule of what you're proposing. So it seems to me that the Law that the Supreme Council adopts should determine the basic principles of things, and everything is determined by the level of the field, the political, the legal culture, the regulatory things. Similarly, imagine, we will now be in law to determine that the special law applies the rules of the first session and of the other sessions. So we're in the legal regulation of the beginning of the council of local self-government, and we're going to get to the point of absurdity. So I understand the logic of this bill, and I understand the logic of it, but I would like us to react to some conflict in the political environment, but we didn't regulate that everything would be resolved equally by the political consent of the political factions. So we're ready to send this over. And think about this bill, but I think the very motive for reacting to the conflict with changes to the Law is wrong by definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u53	Thank you. We've finished the discussion, we've expressed each other's thoughts, but we're all thinking that we need to work on this project and get it out of the way, because even if the example is just one case, we need to react accordingly. So please make a proposal to the committee in the draft ruling. I'm putting her to the vote. On the basis of and to be sent for further processing. In general, can we vote as a document? In the first reading. [[16:51:27]] For 296 The decision is made. I would ask the committee to work on it, taking into account the criticism that has been expressed here, and to make the law work. For objective reasons, the reporter, Valerius Mikhailovich Suškević, was detained. And that's why I took that question off the table. But since he is here, and the co-reporter is, I would like to give him my word and report on the draft Law amending article 37 of the State Service Act. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u54	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. National Deputy Suškević, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, this is about, unfortunately, traditional discrimination against people with disabilities in our legislation, which has traditionally been. What are we talking about? If a civil servant suddenly becomes disabled while in public service, he will receive a disability pension as a civil servant. But if a disabled person falls suddenly, I say suddenly, because it's very difficult to get a disability in the public service, he won't get a pension as a government official on disability. This is the reality of existing legislation. I, by the way, want to pay attention to our General of the Red Cross, if he is, the former Head of the State Committee. So, just so you know, he came into the service of a disabled person. He will not have a pension as a civil servant. This is one of our examples. And today we have a lot of people with disabilities who are trying to work, who are going to the public service to work to get into society, sorry, healthy people, being disabled. And today, as we don't fight, there is this discrimination. That's the whole point of the law -- that a state invalid who came into the service of a disabled person to be a de facto person would get the same pension as any government official who has a disability. That's the whole point of my law. I ask you to support that there should be no discrimination and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention. If there are any questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u55	Please, can I ask you a question? vote early yet, because it follows a reduced procedure, should be “in favour” and should be “against”. Please, have a seat. And Olga Borisovna, from the committee, what would she say about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u56	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, discussed the bill at his meeting on September 20. According to the report, the project strengthens the social protection of disabled workers in positions assigned to the category of civil servants. It also specifies the terms and conditions for the termination and recovery of pensions when the disability group of the persons in question is changed. In support of the bill as a whole, individual members of the committee commented on its valuable impact on the budget’s spending. The Pension Fund also noted that the bill could be supported if the necessary expenditure of the State budget was taken into account. Taking into account the seriousness of the issue raised to restore social justice and equalization in the rights of people with disabilities in the public service, as well as those who have already been disabled and who have come into the public service, our committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill that is being considered as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u57	Olga Borisovna, would someone please ask you a question? Yuri Miroshnichenko, I see your hand raised, and Rephat Chubarov, please. Three minutes for questions and answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u58	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Olga Borisovna, please tell me, what is the amount in the State Budget? Because I don't think there's going to be any MP here who doesn't support the idea of the law itself. But what is the amount involved so that we can make decisions, especially in the context of the budgetary process, so that we can count? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u59	Thank you for asking. The maximum cost is one and a half million dollars per year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u60	Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u61	Thank you so much! Olga Borisovna, dear! Now my colleague Miroshnichenko asked me exactly what I was interested in and what I felt was that it was so small a million and a half a year that we could not just base it today, maybe if there were no objections to MPs to accept it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u63	Have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to speak for, sign up for the project. No one wants to. Wonderful. Who's against it? Sign up. Grigorovich. You up for it? Good Grigorovitch and Cibenko for it, and Kirilenko and Bondarczuk against it, I understand. The same for? If you don't mind, let's put it to a vote. The draft amendment law is proposed as a basis for the first reading. On the first reading, I repeat. There's a vote coming. [[16:57:33]] For 403 Decision taken. But I would ask the committee before the second reading to process it very carefully. It's not about a million and a half, because if a law can be introduced like that, so that sometimes we don't have 60 percent of government officials with disabilities, take a good look. They have power today, influence, in determining disability in any way, be very careful with the consideration of this bill. We can just discredit the public service, we have to be careful. Draft Act amending section X, paragraph 15, of the Code of Earth Transitions. [[on the time limit for sale of land]] Rapporteur of the Ukrainian National MP Tkachenko Alexander Mikolajovich, and co-reporter Tsusko Vasil Petrovich. Oh, they're reporters, two. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u64	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I would like to point out that the land issue is a matter of national security for Ukraine. Regrettably, there were anti - statesmen in Ukraine who wanted to turn the land of Ukraine into a commodity. They may not have had enough economic and spiritual destruction in the last 15 years. Now they're trying to take away our citizens' living space. The increase in agricultural efficiency is seen by so - called marketers through the introduction of land into economic circulation, or legislatively, to allow the sale of living space. A market speculator's benefit from a land round is to buy land at a low price today, sell it more expensive tomorrow, as it was with privatized industrial enterprises. By following the direction of the International Monetary Fund in its own time, without taking into account the thoughts and amendments of the people’s deputies, the artificial presidential majority of Kuchma adopted the unconstitutional Earth Code in October 2001. The Communists then opposed the position in the codex regarding the transformation of land into goods. The bitter experience of reforming the APC has shown that the efficiency of farming on earth is not determined at all by private ownership and not by the purchase of land, but depends on state support and scientific and human resources. The Communists, along with a large part of the national MPs, reached a moratorium on land sales, which ends on January 1, 2007. In the absence of a moratorium on agricultural trade, most land will be purchased at dumped prices. This can lead to social upheaval. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Deputies — members of the Communist faction — Simonenko, Tkachenko, Pavkko introduced a bill proposing to continue the moratorium until 2015. We have come from the fact that the legal security of the land market is not yet regulated and not in time. First. There is no Law on State Land cadastre, which defines, inter alia, the assessment of land, the quantity, the quality of its characteristics. Allocation of land between owners and land users. It's different. There is no law on monetary valuation of land in various bioclimate zones in Ukraine and 4. Third. There are still 25 bills that regulate land relations. As we can see, there is a huge amount of legislative work before Parliament, which is not even invested in today’s parliamentary cadence. So the continuation of the moratorium on land-buying will allow, within a specified time frame, to develop an effective and perfect mechanism for the circulation of land and prevent social conflicts. The bill also proposes to replace the words “rural-farm farming” with “farm farming”, since the term is defined by law. Today, dear friends, we have embarked on a new socio-historic stage when Ukraine has become a parliamentary-presidential state. An anti-crisis coalition has come to power, a coalition government has been formed, which, according to the present, sees Ukraine's prospects for development as an industrialized and agrarian state. We should not close our eyes to the 15th annual destruction of Ukraine as a civilized state. We are obliged to restore Ukraine’s power by means of the scientific industrialization of the agribusiness complex. As far as possible, the 2007 budget takes into account the APC’s problems as the basis of Ukraine’s life. It is unfair that the rural wage rate is three times lower than that of the country as a whole, and the social development of the village today is 27 times less than that of an average city. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations support the adoption of the bill. So I ask, dear friends, to support the amendments made to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u65	Is there a question for Alexander Mikolaiovich? Please sign in. We have a three-minute schedule here. Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u66	Please give the floor to the Deputy Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u67	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u68	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I may have misunderstood something, so I'd really like to clarify this for you. What the Communists are doing is that there's a market for the earth when the cancer whistles, it's understandable, and that's completely consistent with the Communist Party position, and I don't really have any questions here. But in your own words: (a) this question is so important that it is a matter of national security. And second. You referred to the anti-crisis coalition. So I have very much doubt that the same position is in the anti-crisis coalition program and that, for example, the Party of Regions advocates that there be no market for land, that there be no sale of land. Since you're also speaking from the anti-crisis coalition, I'd like to hear it clearly. Your partners, for example, and, in general, the anti-crisis coalition in general and the Party of Regions, in particular, for not having a land market, in principle, in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u69	Thank you. I, my dear friends, said: by 2015, not until 2017, but until 2015 to remind me of the period when the earth was declared, indeed, by the world's property and factories and factories Today, around Kiev, 80-90 kilometers [80-90 km] of land is sold out. The same thing is done around the district centers. We must, dear friends, pause in 15 years and find out what is being done in the state. Over the past 15 years, our population has dropped by 6 million people, one minute. And when it comes to land, and it's about the role and place of the anti-crisis coalition, I think we have the only thought here, and this only thought has to be confirmed. Because you noticed what I said, except for the two basic laws -- the Earth cadastre and the Price Mechanism Act. Don't make any noise! You've already brought Ternopil and Lviv to the pen. You're asking for bread today. So don't make any noise. And today, we have 46 out of 52 million. Do you think people die like that, or is it a creeping famine? I think it's a creeping hunger. So, dear friends, the great commodity was and remains the foundation for the development of any economy -- whether it's a capitalist or a socialist, there's no difference. But once again, I'm saying that the anti-crisis coalition understands what an industrial agrarian state is. I think the anti-crisis coalition will support it, because I said that five years of caedence to our parliament is not enough for us to adopt a whole set of laws, except for the two basic ones that I called them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u70	Thank you. Chubarov. No, I'm sorry. Well, he called it his last name. All right, give Chubar's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u71	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I imagine the dissatisfaction of my liberal colleagues I will call on what I say. I will support the transfer of terms, although with many of your motivations I do not agree with it, that is another matter. But what I want to ask you is that there's some kind of earth movement going on, no matter where we move that term. How do we deal with cases where people don't become, well, they die, it's a natural trait, they leave, they don't have offspring, and the land stays. How would we predict such a legal mechanism for the return to the property of these local communities of that land that is simply without any offspring? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u72	You asked a perfectly good question. Dear friends, I think today in every area without exception and in separate areas and farms the land is returning to cooperatives. The land is not taken from the people of the pies. But pies are used to make cooperative farms today. And that's what you have to do. And that kind of program, I think the new government is going to develop, and we're going to approve it with you. But I believe that a lot of the farms -- they've been living themselves in their own time, and deep-specialized large farms, large-scale farms -- are tomorrow's day of our nation. America took an example of us, Europe took an example of us, China took an example of us. By 1990, they had studied our system of agro-industry based on specialization and clustering. We then made a clear zone of steppes, woodchoppers, polyps, and hilly zones in Ukraine, taking into account all forms: both property, and forms of manufacturing relationships. And what is now 62 percent of America's land in the state fund, 62 percent. By the way, I'll tell you what, dear friends. We occupy, Ukraine, 0.4 land planets. But we're taking 4.9 percent in useful fossils. The cost of the land today is not to sell ore land or meadows or pastures. The price is what's in the ground. It's trillions, it's a space of life. But I think that we today, dear friends, should come out of the fact that state security is the living space of our people, of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Thank you. The committee proposed because -- and I'm going to make a small trailer -- in a coalition agreement and in a coalition of other meanings, and there and there are the same standards for land. To adopt a bill that does not allow the moratorium to stop selling land, and today it is introduced by the first January of the following year, and for a period of, like, one and a half years, to develop a series of laws that regulate pricing, cadastral land, and so on. So from the point of view of principle, Alexander Mikolaiovich has now reported a draft law, and the discussion may be about the terms of the law. But we can figure it out later, at the time of the final adoption of this law. But for the same reason, responding to such a requirement, which, by the way, is repeated in Universal, Vasil Petrovich Tsushko Vasil Petrovich Tsushko also proposed a document – a draft of the Law. And the suggestion is to look at them together, because they are the same as the content with some nuances, because when you do that, you can make and make a negotiated decision. Vassil Petrovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a bill, which I read: “To implement no later than 1 January 2008 the full market for land in state and municipal property, as well as the land of agricultural production.” Furthermore, “purchasing and selling agricultural land is not allowed for the adoption of appropriate legislation. That is, the adoption of the Ukrainian law on the characteristics of land circulation in state and municipal property, as well as on the characteristics of land circulation in agricultural production, the Ukrainian Act on State Land cadastre, amending. Ensure the development of land-and-pot lending by amending the Law in Ukraine: on mortgages and land leases on the possibility of mortgages on land for loans, including long-term loans, the development and approval of long-term legislation on improving the assessment methodology for agricultural land.” That is to say, a bill on which, in principle, the bill was considered in two constitutional treaties. The substance of this entry in the two records, the first, the substance of these changes in the two records, is the first, if we are able to adopt laws before 1 January 2008, the legislative basis for the land market to enter into force, then the land market will become operational. If we do not enact these laws, it is automatically transposed. And that will be fair and fair. Why should we do that? I agree with my colleague, Alexander Nikolaevich Tkachenko, who reported that let's face it, the problem is that land reform has taken place, let's say, in barbaric terms. And today, socialist categorically Socialists are categorically opposed to the current system of land dissipation, against what started with land. In fact, it began the same way that certification privatization, when people are simply being lied to. We are well aware that around the great cities, around the roads, the same route of Odessa Kiev, the entire land has already been bought under various types and legal devices. We have no right to close our eyes that there is an unregulated land market and de jure land is not sold, de facto, it is actually in circulation. If we come up with laws to establish a land assessment methodology, and you know very well that no one has cancelled either the differential rent of one or the differential rent of two. And under Kiev will be one price of land, 200 kilometers from Kiev, another price of land, next to the river will be one price and so on. We don't take that into account, do we look, at all, an ostrich's position when he's scared. Next moment. There's another one. The ban on selling land today is an anti-constitutional norm. Why? Because a person has the right to use, for example, his property, apartment or home, and the land that the State would like to give to him cannot be sold. Most people have their own or half our pensioners. They understand perfectly, first of all, their health, secondly, their income. And when ours, let's put it this way, the marketers take these moments into account and, simply by lying to these people, using their needs, they take this land away. Under what pretext? Under 49 years of rent with a right of passage. You know that's the majority. Here we are, driving our faction into the Vinnick area, where it's happening slowly. They're taking 49 years, well aware that 70 today, another 49 years old, he's not going to live that long. 49 years later, this land passes. That is, if a person dies, the owner is the one who rents it. If we, the responsible Parliament, have supported all factions and all have supported such an approach, let us determine that we need to adopt this legislation. Therefore, the possibility that Aleksandra Nikolaevich's bill, which is one of my proposals, is that they can be accepted as one of the basics on first reading or another and then refined precisely according to what I have said. If we do not do so, we simply deprive our people who have been given a pie of land, we deprive this land of the criminal schemes that are in force today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u75	Is there a question for Vasil Petrovich? No questions asked. Is it? Yeah. Here's the y. Sign up for three minutes. Chubarov asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u76	I'm asking you to tell Bespalom Boris Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u77	Yeah, well, you're a good friend and I appreciate, I think everyone will appreciate your solidarity when you're quite the opposite of the bill so, Yours and Tweezers are the same. It's solidarity with the Anti-Crist Coalition, that's understandable. But your approach is quite different. If it's against the land market, you're "for" and you're even quick to suggest a fairly fast term and I can confirm that what you're offering really corresponds to both coalition agreements, creating a full market for the land. What's more, the most valuable thing in your project, which we're proposing to take for granted is a specific list of laws that need to be eliminated. And my question is this. Here you are giving a list of laws that need to be adopted or amended to be a full market for the earth within a year and a half. Would you please suggest this as a binding norm? So the Supreme Council is going to execute this law and adopt these laws, or is it just a wish that can be done or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u78	College of Bespaly, as an experienced MP, you know, if this is written in the Code of Land, this is the Law of Ukraine, and this is part of the Code of Land, this is a binding norm, and you are well aware that this is an assignment for both you and me, as deputies, to change this situation. Are we gonna make it? Are we gonna work? It's in our hands. There will be a civilized market for land. We're not going to make it. It's not going to work. As for solidarity, solidarity, the problem raised by my colleague, Tkachenko, and me. I simply passed on to one another what was written in coalition agreements, by the way, both in what was a project and in what became a reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u79	Bodnar, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u80	Please pass the word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u81	Mikola Tomenko speaks. Listen up, everybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u82	Vasil Petrovich, I'd like to be so specific that it's clear to our citizens that this is the moment. I'm going to vote for your bill, I'm absolutely convinced, maybe someone doesn't understand that if we don't solve the question of the civil market by 2015, that means that all of us, in Russian, say, "walkers" are going to buy this whole land for 49 years, and we're never going to have a civil market. If there's no land cadastre in the near future, there's not going to be an order of the problem that is today, and it's going to drag 10 years or so forward, it's going to be on the hands of those people who are actually illegally privatizing the land today. I'd like to hear what the motivation is to move this to 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u83	Thank you, colleague Tomenko. You were actually addressing the previous rapporteur. I just want to emphasize that the country's bandit market needs to be stopped. And everyone sitting in this room has promised the voters that we'll make it right. In my bill, I set a deadline for both myself and you, and for any official. Let's do this faster. Another question is that it can't be claimed. I answer to my colleague Bespalloma, I have not completed my answer, I do not claim an exhaustive list of legislation to be adopted, perhaps I have not listed it. Life will show, and when we adopt or maybe we will do it in the same bill, or in a few, or change some laws and so on. But what's necessary. Everyone made a promise. And I suggest you support me now and accept it on first reading. After taking into account the views of each body of the legislative initiative, including the people's deputies, Kabmin, the President, if they wish to submit their proposals and adopt a normal bill that will respond to the reality of today's situation in Ukraine and really protect the land owner who has received it so that he can use it, rent it and transfer it by inheritance. And now he's in gangbusters and we're done with populism and playing. Let us bear it when we actually see people on every corner just lying, lying because they don't know how to complete this contract. You all bumped into each other in every village. The contract is given, the person signs it, then they sign it, and it's done, and the Latifundist is there, and the guy's running to get him a couple bags of grain for his same leased land. So I'm offering you, let's figure this out. And that's why we're going to create a civilized market. This applies not only to agriculture but also to municipal property, urban land and so on. Today and in Kiev there are these problems, and in every city. Both on the beach and wherever you want. There's a ladder of land coming. So thank you for your attention. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u84	Please sit down. I have an offer that comes out of a decision. I'm asking for your attention. Now, now. What comes out of the process of dealing with this issue is, in fact, recommended by a professional committee in such a sequence to resolve the issue. First of all, since both bills apply in different depths, let's say the solution is that from the first January of the following year you can't sell land, that's a moratorium. Just now, this project, reported by Vasil Petrovich Tsusko, provides for specific bills to be adopted and within a certain time limit. And Alexander Mikolaiovich's project involves only a moratorium announcement, referring to the preparation of relevant bills. But this binding term is not defined. That's the offer. Parliament can make a decision. Regarding the unification of both bills, the adoption of them in the first reading, and the revision of the second reading. Alexander Mikolaiovich, from the spot of the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio and television audiences. The language goes, we don't have a dispute between that project that was filed by the Communist faction and the Socialist faction. One must understand what the earth cadastre will do in a year, in two, in five, believe me, who knows, no one will do. It's a good 7-8 years' worth of work, hard work. Without a land cadastre you can't determine the price of land, the price of goods if we make it a commodity. We are for this law to be passed tomorrow, and it has entered into force for the earth to be in circulation. Well, the process itself -- it's practically not happening and it can't be done that fast. So let's make the right proposal. We're going to work out, you're going to think about it, and I think we're going to vote on the second reading as changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u86	I'm asking you to do it again. Here, I'll give you a word of procedure. Please. That's what this is about. We will adopt, as envisaged in the project proposed by Vasil Petrovich, the Land Cadastre Act. If the situation and the situation mentioned by Alexander Mikolaiovich are revealed, then we will make a decision at the time that we adopt this law. Two days ago, I met the head of the State Council. He proposes a very real pattern of how to do this in due time, but in order to do so, he will have to make decisions when considering the funding budget for these jobs. That's another question. So there's no contradiction here anymore, and you can suggest what I'm proposing. But Alexander Turchinov says you can't do that by procedure, he wants to sign up. Three minutes to get out of the procedure. But this, let's not even say that. We have two for two against. The proposal is made. Now I'm voting on this proposal. Who's in? Support me. Offer. Unite two projects in the first reading, vote and send them to prepare for the second reading. I'm taking down my offer. We vote separately each project. The project is voted out for by Alexander Mikolayovich. Please. I'm asking you to sign up for who's going to be campaigning for it. Take down the vote. Stop voting. It is not a vote, but it is a vote for two men. Please. Alexander Tkachenka's project, which he reported. Please, Kozemyakin will say, Kožemyakin and Matvienko. Now, who will object to this? Please, Kožemakin has a word. He doesn't want it anymore. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u87	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! We have talked about the fact that there is no contradiction and the difference between the two laws. And the bill that was filed by the Communist Party faction and the bill that our colleagues from the socialist faction filed are all directed at one thing. And we need to understand one thing. To date, we are simply not prepared, from an organizational or moral standpoint, or from a legal point of view, to allow the land into goods. So let's see, let's take a look at the situation that is happening today in the village. Land dispersion is virtually unfinished, and the courts are overwhelmed by the knowledge of cases in which people who have worked their entire lives in colossal areas cannot understand, can't find the end, how, why they've run out of pies. After we release the land into the cargo, these people will just be erased from this list and they will be left behind. Next moment. Land cadastre. What they've said here before. The price of the land itself. What's going to happen today is that they're just going to invest money to dislodge, we're going to say this, this product, we're going to invest, and we're going to kind of accumulate it. Yes, there is a sense of understanding of the issues that are and are related to people of advanced age. These problems exist, they exist to this day. But in order to protect this particular category, we need, in any case, to adopt a law that would oblige us to prepare a list of at least 20 laws that are being drafted for consideration. At that convening, I was the author of one of the laws that imposed this moratorium until 1 January 2007. We then proposed until 2015 and then talked about listening to us and let's take the first step right away and make this law, let's say, a long time. I therefore call for a vote today, both for the first and for the second bills, in any way. To date, we need to extend this moratorium in order to create stability for our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u88	Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u89	Thank you. I will vote in favour of both bills, hoping that at least one of them was accepted in the first reading. When the motivation was given for the continuation of the moratorium, all speakers spoke of the need to protect those who had already received the land. I agree with these motivations. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that those who have not received land, especially agriculture, who have lived their entire lives in a village or recently returned Crimean Tatars to the earth, are also in Ukraine millions. It's mostly Crimean Tatars in Crimea, but it's not just Crimean Tatars, it's teachers, it's doctors, it's librarians, it's a lot of people who have lived all their lives in the village. So we need to think about how to form, to adopt legal mechanisms that give pleasure and people who have not yet received land from the State so that they can become, even though they can get closer to the people who have received land rations. I think that if we take one of the documents as a basis and if we work it out for the second reading, we really have to try to get there at least a more comprehensive list of the bills that are required. when accepted, the market for the earth may be already running. And in that bill, I'm just convinced that there must be a legal mechanism for the creation of a state fund for the land, so that the state can regulate the market so that the state can restore justice for its citizens so that the state has the right to buy the land that will be put on sale. So until we can adopt new laws, including the creation of a powerful state fund for the land, we cannot start selling land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u90	They wanted to speak to Tkachenko and Tomenko. Tsakenko and Tomenko, please. Tkachenko, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. None. Tomenko's talking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u91	Alexandre Alexandrovich, please pass on the word Tsushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u93	Thank you, Nikolai Vladimirovich. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, we're breaking the spears! According to the second reading procedure, if we accept both of them together, as Alexander Alexandrovich suggested, and we unite, there are two mutually exclusive moments, two dates: I propose until the first zero-eighth, and Alexander Nikolayevich proposes before 2015. [[I'm saying, first reading, listen!]] It is clear that on second reading a specific date will be voted on, because another 400 deputies can set different dates, and then we will be determined. So there's a suggestion: don't break the copies, don't waste time, let's take the two bills as combined in the first reading, because my bill is actually absorbing the bill proposed by Aleksandr Nikolaevich, on a date. And then on the second reading, we're going to set a specific date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u94	I'm asking you to listen again. We actually finished the discussion on a reduced procedure. But once again, since no one has spoken against Vasil Petrovich Tsushka’s project, his proposal in this case is all the more correct. Parliament has the right to bring both projects together, to take them as a basis, and to develop a second reading project that is understandable to everyone, including the date. [[Please! Well, the procedure is clear!]] You don't want to vote like that: I'm voting for the project that Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko put to the vote. Please, there's a vote. First reading. In the first reading, I emphasize. [[17:32:59]] For-59 The decision is not taken. I propose to put to the vote the project that Vasil Petrovich Tsushko introduced in the first reading. [[17:33:24]] For 398 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to Section X, paragraph 15, of the “Transitional Positions” of the Earth Code is being considered, and I have already announced it, sorry. We've just considered it. Project number 1101 on changes to the Earth Code, Stretovic project. The report is withdrawn as requested, since the reporter is sick and is unable to assign this function to anyone. So I'm just missing this bill. In the meantime, we are considering a project, 1297 – registration number, amendment, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of a minimum wage at the minimum wage for working persons, and the submission to the Committee is also the same. [[Bondarchuka project]] And John Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, head of the committee, reports. Oh, he's as an author, and from the committee of Vyezivski Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, the purpose of our proposal, with the then national deputy of Ukraine Rudzkowski, the bill is simple and understandable: to eliminate the obvious social paradox, because the unsynchronous, unconformed, unagreed increase in minimum wage and minimum retirement at an age has led to a balanced ratio between these two indicators, leading to the fact that the minimum wage today is significantly lower than the subsistence minimum for working persons. This difference is 121 bracelets per month. Let me remind you that the minimum retirement age corresponds to the subsistence minimum for disabled people, which is certainly a positive moment. Exceeding the minimum wage over the minimum wage is not only an economic nonsensus but also a factor that has a negative impact on macroeconomic indicators, such as the filling of the Pension Fund, does not encourage work. In the materials you have, the essence of questions and motives is set out. As far as the profile ministries and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions are concerned. In our view, in some cases they are reasonable and will be included in further work on the bill. Individuals are controversial, but once again they will be able to reach agreements. Specific wishes in the statements of the Federation of Trades, they should also be taken into account. In principle, only Minfin disagrees with the bill, citing the need for the introduction of the proposed standard to be additionally sought in the 2007 State Budget for 19 billion dollars. There is no such resource, and this, in Minfin's view, will lead to a balanced budget of all levels, a substantial debt of pay, a need to reduce the large number of employees of these institutions. But the honourable colleagues, the proposed bill does not foresee, I stress, it does not foresee the introduction of a minimum wage at least below the minimum wage since January 1, 2007. Therefore, the budget reference is not entirely valid. After all, the Budget Code requires that laws of Ukraine that affect the formation of income or expenditure portions of budgets be officially made public by 15 August of the year leading up to the planned budget. So our proposed standard can be introduced in an ideal way not before January 1, 2008, unless otherwise established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have with you the right to what terms and the order in which to impose such laws. Because, really, in addition to bringing some other laws into line with the rules of technology, there is a need to find real financial opportunities for both budget workers and employees of non-state-owned enterprises. By the way, it's going to turn out that maybe we need extra money in the budget, not 19 billion dollars, but much less. Today, however, we must, by ratifying the European Social Charter recently, and by making appropriate commitments, logically continue the course towards achieving European social standards of life, because there is a problem. Having declared the right of everyone working in Ukraine to receive a minimum wage, not lower than the minimum of living, I would stress that we, as a social state, should once again remind ourselves that we are doing so in accordance with the 1st article of the Constitution, should take the first concrete step in this direction. In view of all the above, please support this bill on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u96	Questions to the Reporter? Please sign up, five minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u97	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear John Mikolaiovich, on our committee, we supported this bill, we decided to recommend a session hall to vote for it in the first reading, but I have a question, because by then you had, and the former drafter of the bill, to agree on one condition. Increasing the minimum wage in the budget usually leads to local budgets at a certain level of funding losing electricity, medicine buying medicine, that is, all costs then go to the minimum wage. All the funds allocated, which the local budget earns, are consumed by this very salary, no longer being able to use them for other purposes, which are also necessary for the normal functioning of the budget. Please tell me, has your calculations changed since then? Can you now predict and tell the session room that there will be no loss for the local budgets as a result of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u98	I can't say this right now, Your Honor Jaroslav Mikhailovich, because that's what we agreed on. We accept it in the first reading today, and then we make the right calculations, because, as I've already pointed out, it's not going to be perfect before January 1, 2008, or maybe later. And I hope that by working with you here, legally securing our economy and so forth, working with the coalition government, we can raise the standard of living in a way that increases the budget revenue and meets the needs not only in wages but in everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u99	Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u100	Lila Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter! The goal is certainly noble and your initiative needs to be supported, because bringing the average wage to a working minimum is of course extremely relevant. But the question I have is, do we not violate human rights and the same reasons for having a proper average wage? What is it? Counting the average wage from a set of products and services does not take into account the qualifications, internships, seniority, recommendations of the trade unions, how to deal with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u101	I think it doesn't violate the rights of any of the other population categories, because working citizens, our fellow countrymen also have needs, physiological needs and others, and they can't cover, as it were, the minimum wage level that doesn't meet the minimum standard of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u102	Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u103	Thank you. Alexander Alexanderovich, I wanted to ask you a question. When there was a preliminary review of the previous bill you missed my last name on the “against” list.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u104	Maybe I'm sorry, it wasn't special. It was an accident.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u105	Thank you. Apology accepted. I'd like to take the floor and give it to Denis's Ludmila. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u106	Thank you. I would like to ask my colleague a question on the committee, but not as the chairman of the committee, but as a member of the anti-crisis coalition. Please tell Ivan Nikolaevich, we discussed the State's Social and Economic Development Programme for 2007 today, and we examined the 2007 budget with you. Having analysed, it can be concluded that there is a trend in the country to reduce social budget expenditures. In 2007, social expenditure is projected to decrease by 12 per cent compared to 2006 and by 15 per cent by 2005. So tell me how much the coalition's vision will change by that time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u107	Dear Ludmila Leontovna, I understand you, but I would like to say that during the committee's discussion of the State Budget project, we haven't discussed the State Budget project yet, but we've only accepted it for consideration. Similarly today's socio-economic development programme, we have a lot of observations with you, both you and me. And so it's time to work on these documents and we've made agreed proposals with you from the committee to the Committee on Budgets, and I think that taking into account our proposals will give you the opportunity to expect substantial improvements, and macroeconomic indicators, and the standard of living of every Ukrainian individual.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u108	Thank you. Sit down, please. Dear colleagues, we have a speech from the committee, yes. I'll tell you what. Wait a minute. I'll announce you. Vyezivsky Volodymyr Mihajlovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u109	Vladimir Vezevski, “Our Ukraine” faction. The Committee on Social Policy and Work considered the bill at its meeting. We would like to say that the conclusions of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice, the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions have been taken into account, which have made a number of observations and suggestions that can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill in the second reading. What we want to say is that there is no recourse to employers and we want to say that this is a very shameful practice when employers do not take part and do not conclude on the establishment of a civilized minimum wage. Next. The Ministry of Finance has reached a negative conclusion, but in view of this, as has been established, the proposed budget for 2007, we see that the increase in the minimum wage in this scenario for 2007 is significantly decreasing compared to 2005 and 2006. And given the actual inflation that awaits us, Ukraine will not be richer in 2007. Therefore, it would be logical to adopt the bill, and it is the committee that makes the proposal. And I would like to turn to the members of Parliament themselves from the crisis or anti-crisis coalition to support this bill. If this is not the government, the next government will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u110	Have a seat, please. The committee's proposal is clear. Shall we discuss this document? There's an offer: take the basis, or the first reading, and assign the committee to work on it further. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal. [[17:46:33]] For 178. Once again, there's a proposal like this. Here, by the way, are the conclusions and managements: send the document for re-reading, for re-examination. Please, Kirilenko's word. No, I gave Kirilenko my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u111	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! We have not had a discussion and perhaps this is the reason for this balanced vote. Since it is a bill that has been tabled by a socialist deputy, it is long overdue, for after we have raised to the minimum of living for inworkable minimum pensions, Parliament is obliged to take the second step and raise the minimum wage in turn to the minimum of living for the working. The faction "Our Ukraine" voted in full "yes". Perhaps one of the non-vote factions should announce, by the way, the results of the vote by factions, neither the opinion of the opposition nor the opinions of colleagues in the Anticrisis Coalition. I suggest we have a discussion now and then try another vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u112	Okay. I'll listen to your suggestions, I think we'll do it. This is really a serious matter when the average wage is less than the pension. And we need to make this situation even so that it doesn't go as illogical as it is in people's pensions and in the pay system. Well, that is to say, we need to take into account the offer made by John Mikolaiovich, who reported that we have the ability to work on it because it is a mechanism. We're setting up an order that is, by the way, provided for in the Constitution. But the time frame for the introduction of this law will be provided when there is a clear guarantee that this law will be fulfilled. But please write down who will support it, please. I ask again, who wants to support this project? Because I wasn't discussing it. Turns out the MPs didn't get it. Those “in favor, ” sign up. Vazivsky, Denisova And who's against it? It's okay. No, there is. That's what I understand, Final and Matthew. Please, Vizier.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u113	Motivation: if the minimum wage rate were to rise in 2007 as it was in 2005 and 2006, at the beginning or, worse, by mid-2008, we would have gone to the minimum wage that is now proposed to vote in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. So I'm calling once again on members of the anti-crisis coalition not to brake the wages of our citizens, because we can't handle utilities at the moment, even though it's the wages that allow them to combine those utilities. And I also ask for Kirichenko's words.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u114	You've taken advantage of your right. Please, Dennis. It's not time, it's law. Look at the Rules. In the end, you will take your word. I'll give you another word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u115	Deputies! I'd like you to understand once again the essence of the project that my colleague Bondarczuk is introducing. It is a matter of comparing the minimum wage to the subsistence minimum for working citizens. What does that mean? That, to date, if we have a minimum wage in the country of 375 dollars and a subsistence minimum of 496 dollars, that is 75.6 per cent of wages to a minimum. So, man, here's the minimum of living to live a full life, buy food, wear something, get 496, and he gets 397. We have to guarantee it with you. It's okay. Under the current circumstances, the budget is required, as the authors have estimated, about 500 million per month. Let's see. Here I asked the author about the trend in the 2007 budget. It's a terrible trend. While in 2005 there were 31.6 billion social expenditures. of December, 2006 - 30 billion This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure for the general budget of the Union and for the general budget of the Union. Now — 26! We are talking about what we need to forget about our citizens at all. That they shouldn't live properly. Let us remember that this salary is based on a pension. Well, it's clear that the anti-crisis coalition has declared war on pensioners in general. Because I don't think they want to raise the minimum wage to the minimum of living, so they don't want to raise the pension. To limit the payment of the pension, and the remainder, to the limits of the one to be laid down in the Budget Act and the one to be earned by the citizen, to the development of the Donetsk Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u116	I'm asking: let's essentially think about the question, essentially. I'm done talking. Mikola Petrovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like us not to politicize a purely economic issue. It is virtually impossible to resolve the issue of minimum wage, minimum living without employers today. The question must be resolved by sitting at the round table. It's quite different across the border: the three sides sit down -- they settle these issues during the negotiations. We want to solve this issue with certainty today. Let's work on this project. The problem is, it needs to be solved, but not as proposed by law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u118	That's what Kruglov said. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u119	Please pass on the word of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u120	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, I think we have made the right decision by going back to a brief discussion of this issue, because it is extremely serious. Indeed, there is a logic that, since pensions today are based on a subsistence minimum for non-working persons, world practice says that generally in civilized countries the ratio of, say, the average pension or the minimum pension and the minimum wage is about 70 percent. That is, we are obliged to take a step forward and part of the minimum wage. And what we have to say is that we still have to understand the original meaning of this concept: the minimum. Minimum, i.e. less can't be done. By the way, I'd like to say another situation that we've had in connection with a sharp, or, I'd say, a gross increase in tariffs. If earlier, during previous increases in housing and utility tariffs, pensioners, veterans and disabled people were most likely to be at risk today, in this situation, there are those at risk who receive minimum wage. And that's why we have to understand that, let's say housing-communal services for 300-500 dollars today, many of those who receive today's minimum wage will not be able to pay. So a faction of Communists will vote in favour of this document, and I call on this and my colleagues, because the doubts that are today are natural, but they can be dispersed in the process of processing the document for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u121	Kirilenko. One minute, you've got a line. Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u122	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, we are witnessing a faction of the Party of Regions in which it does not want to raise minimum social standards. In this sense, it's a strange position of head of the Supreme Council, who doesn't actually support the bill introduced by socialist Bondarchuk. I'm noting that in 2007, the minimum wage to the minimum working wage will only increase by 3%. The previous government has now established this ratio of 79%. The government of Janukovich proposes to leave on December 1st to 82%. So what I'm proposing is not only to support the Bondarchuk bill, but also to record in the 2007 budget that the minimum wage and the minimum wage for the workers should fall to December 1st next year, because by January 1st 2008, no government will raise it that much. And I ask you to put this question to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u123	Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, thank you for the reply. I'm the only one who'll answer you. I should have made this offer when you were the prime minister. Then you didn't talk about it. And today, all of a sudden, I'm being reprimanded, although there's no relation to blocking this proposal. You know that. So I'm voting on the first reading of the draft law. Please. [[17:58:10]] For 228 In the first reading, 228 is accepted. With motive? Please. Okay, that's it. You want motive? Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u124	Dear colleagues. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions I would ask the National Deputies not to mention the name of the Party of the Regions, especially those who have held a very recent high office and are fully responsible for the destruction of the basic sectors of the national economy. First. The other one. I'm asking you all, especially when you're still a major deputy after this brilliant vote, ask your polyfindivisions and reiffindits, ask the health department and education department what they're going to tell you about this bill. Where in the local budget will they now take the money for heating, lighting and providing material and technical equipment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-10-03-m1.u125	I'm asking everyone to calm down. Take it easy. Take it easy. Take it easy. Please calm down, don't quarrel. The point is that we accepted the project in the first reading. For the second reading, prepare all the arguments that have been expressed both on the grounds of the vote and the drafters, and those who have so strongly supported it, thinking that they will do the same for their colleagues. It's about a situation that needs to be solved anyway. Think and prepare for its solution. At this I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the Supreme Council will continue its work.
