ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. There's a check-in, please. [[16:00:32]] There are 231 deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. Before I begin my consideration of the issues put into order of day, I would like to warn some of the national MPs who have introduced megaphones, eggs, smoke checkers and other attributes of democracy, to warn that if someone can go beyond the established laws, the morals of the boundary, then a personal question of deputizing the MPs will be considered. [[Levko Grigorovich]] And believe that in view of the substance of our legislation and the procedures provided for therein, everything will be resolved as provided for in the law and the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let us turn to the issue of the number and list of committees of the Supreme Council and the subject matter of committee knowledge. You have two rulings on your hands. First ruling, registration number 1007-3, registered on June 27th. [[its authors Zvaric, Vinsky, Turkov]] And the second is a 10-number draft, introduced by me as the Head of the Supreme Council after a discussion at the Conciliation Council. I mean, it's our debt to the Supreme Council, because we haven't dealt with these issues at the right time. Is there a desire to comment on Project 1007-4 in the MPs of Zvaric, Vinsky and Turkinov? If there is such a desire, please go to the rostrum and report on your project. There's no wish. Then we're going to think that the authors don't want to report it. I'm going to report the project that I'm doing on my own. This is about the fact that the Supreme Council should take to heart the proposal for the creation of 26 committees in the Supreme Council of professional and special monitoring committees on privatization issues. The objects of knowledge are defined, they provide for coverage of the entire field of legislation and enable Parliament to effectively intervene in all aspects of social life. I want to mark another feature of this document. In the vast majority of his positions, he repeats a practice that has been established over the years in Parliament and will allow the potential of all the members of the Supreme Council to be used effectively. I finished the report. If you have any questions, please sign in. Is there anyone who'd like to make a statement? None. I therefore put to the vote the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the List, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Fifth Call Committees, registration number 1007-3, Sorry, Tier 4, first 10-03, which was submitted by representatives of this section of the Hall. I'll bet you a vote. There's a vote coming. [[16:05:36]] For the For 3, against 2, held – 0 – 228 national deputies did not vote. So this project is not supported by a session of the Supreme Council. I'm betting on the vote on Project 1007-4, which I've reported. Please identify yourself from this point of view. Please include the “Council” system. [[16:06:19]] For 227 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Decision of the Supreme Council “On the List, the Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call” was finally adopted. I ask you to publish in factions, as the MPs voted. I declare: Region Party – 184, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 2, SPU – 20, communists – 21. I declare a decision taken. Let us now consider the next issue of the agenda for the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The MPs have been able to submit their nominations as the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What are some of the suggestions? Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Honorable colleagues, distinguished voters, a faction of Communists, in agreement with the coalition, were introduced to consider Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich’s candidacy. You know, it's an experienced politician, a man who's worked honestly and decently on the Supreme Council, has a principle of position, has always advocated the principles of parliamentaryism and legality, based on the freedom of the national deputies, respecting all of us as colleagues, and being able to always find a way out of a situation or another. I ask you to take up Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's candidacy, and I believe that this will be a worthy candidate for the position of First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u3	It is clear that he has been nominated to serve as the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. What are some other suggestions? There was no other offer. Why don't you take a chance on that? Who is in favour of risking the nomination of candidates, please vote. Who's to take the risk, please vote. [[16:10:03]] For 227 Decision taken. According to procedure, we need 10 minutes for a technical break. Is there a need for such a break? Nobody insists? Well, since Parliament, as you can see, is working effectively, you can't call it a break. Then I give the floor to the candidate for the position of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. You can come out of the rostrum, but you can come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! Of course, under conditions such as those created by an orange team for the work of a higher legislature, it is very difficult and impossible to speak. But basically, I don't have that kind of need. In this session room there are members of the third vocation, who have the opportunity to evaluate my work in this position. In this session hall, no less than the deputies of the fourth previous call, who also saw me perform the duties of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council. And, uh, that's who I am. All of you colleagues have finally had the opportunity to conclude on my professionalism as a member of the temporary presidency of the first session. In short, I'm what I am, and I'm gonna stay that way. Finally, I would like to use the words of a classic living classic of Ukrainian literature. I'm a communist, and that's what I said. If there are any questions, I am ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u5	The report is complete. I think Adam Ivanovich has made some interesting information, so please ask those questions. Please sign up for questions. Please, Kushnarov Evgen Petrovich. Let's take 10 minutes of questions and answers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u6	Dear voters, dear colleagues, we are now discussing a candidate for the First Vice-Speaker, one of the most experienced politicians and parliamentarians of Ukraine, Adam Martinyuk. It is my opinion that this person is reasonable, that this person is committed to the standards of democracy, which is primarily to the Constitution, to the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council. He is a person who can hear the interviewee, seek and find compromises. I am absolutely convinced that in the event of election, Adam Martinyuk will defend Ukrainian parliamentaryism, will do everything in Parliament to finally have an agreement, to start working together for the sake of unifying Ukraine, for the sake of the welfare of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u8	As long as questions and answers are answered, I ask you to hand out documents that characterize Adam Ivanovich. The secretariat, please hand over the documents to the deputies. Please, Kozub has a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u9	I give the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Please tell me how my requirements of the Rules that we adopted in March 2006 will be met in your work, because new rules are needed in the new political conditions, as in Parliament's rules of work. Whether there may be a subgroup, a committee with a profile on issues of the Rules and MP's ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u11	Thank you. It will be easier for me to work with the new Rules because I was one of the three authors of this Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u12	Deputy Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u13	MP Samofalov, faction Party of the region. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I know you as a very experienced professional, already a parliamentarian, and I have a question for you. At the end of last year, Parliament adopted a moratorium on rising prices for utilities. Today we understand and you see what it's like. It is happening in the hall that, since 5 August, there will be nothing to pay to retirees, especially the high prices for electricity, gas, etc. Please tell me, Adam Ivanovich, by order of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Congress, really or we will have to vote and show the Ukrainian people who are who in this room today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u14	Thank you. The problem is being solved very easily, and we need to organize a comprehensive constitution for the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. I want each of them to read the Constitution of Ukraine and act in accordance with its standards, and in accordance with those norms, the changes to the Constitution that have been voted with you in this session room by 402 votes. On December 8, 2004, the rulings and other acts of the Supreme Council are required to carry out the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers does not read the Constitution, ignores it, and unfortunately does not. I hope that the anti-crisis coalition will create a government that will adhere to the letter and spirit of the basic law, and we will have no problem making another such decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u15	Deputy Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u16	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I know that Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk is not one of those deputies who have made a noise in this room right now and who are not allowing the Supreme Council to work, in contrast to all its activities and in the fourth call, when I also worked as a deputy, to make it better in Ukraine. So I suggest you, Alexander Alexanderovich, honorate, propose a discussion and vote in favour of Adam Ivanovich's candidacy. I believe that everyone supports this candidacy, a worthy person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u17	Thank you, Mikola Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u18	Deputy Bondarenko, “Regions” faction. Deputy Rybak. I'm sorry, I'm Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u19	Respectable compatriots! The Supreme Council has seen a lot, but she has never seen a vacchanal like that built by the botovites. At the same time, we call for calm, for the normal work of the Supreme Council, we support Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's candidature as an experienced public figure, a great leader. I therefore urge you all to vote for Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u20	Thank you, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u21	Deputy Suhi. I've already told you. Verni Dubov
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you're a wise man, you work a lot in Parliament, you've been in the country, you've been a great procedureist. Tell me, which in your opinion is the way out of this situation, when without warning, without a declaration of war they say, without any claim, this is how a minority conducts itself. And what does that mean when it ends? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u23	The solution is very easy to find, it is necessary to turn to your conscience if it still remains in the orange team, in order for them to work within the Rules and the Constitution and not break it. When that happens, I think soon the main thing about those who created the coalition, the strong nerves, and I think we're going to be able to endure this squabbling of contempt.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u24	We have spent time discussing the matter. Adam Ivanovich, please take your seat. A word to announce the procedure for the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council is given to the head of the Counting Commission. Please. I beg you, does anyone have a wish to comment on Adam Ivanovich's candidacy? Write down who wants to speak. There aren't any. Please, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum of the Counting Commission. In view of the need to consult on the procedure. I'm calling a 15-minute recess and asking the faction leaders to enter the Conciliation Council Hall. Repeat, we have a 15-minute recess. I ask the factions to come up to the Conciliation Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. The evening session is continuing. There was a meeting of the Conciliation Council. We agreed on the need to continue the dialogue and find compromise solutions. I just got off the phone with the president, and he's offering to meet right now. I have to go to this meeting and do it with pleasure. It is likely that negotiations will take place in a different format. In view of this, we need to call a recess because there is no substitute who can hold a meeting without me. So I'm going to propose that we solve this question in this way. We're in the process of dealing with a particular issue. In accordance with this procedure, the Counting Commission should meet from the top, determine all procedural points. I'm going to go to the President, and we're going to figure out how to proceed with the negotiations, and then I'm going to come back here, and we're going to figure out how to proceed. I don't see any other way. So I'm just going to make one more announcement, because the MPs are turning to that. About joining the anti-crisis coalition of deputies Volkova, Zaplański and Zubik. But that's their business. Now I'm inviting the members of the Counting Commission to meet on the third floor and decide on the procedure, thank you. The ballots, yes, with the ballots, the form and everything else, what the Rules provide. I'm calling a break so far, I think we can deal with this in an hour, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to disturb you. I had a meeting with the President of Ukraine. I would like to inform you about the content of the conversation with him and ask you to be able to do so. But since some deputies do not want to listen to this, I will tell those who watch the television or listen to us on the radio. The President spoke on the need to create a broad coalition and create conditions for such a broad coalition through negotiations that should be held with representatives of all the political forces represented in Parliament. I expressed my support for this idea because it was at the heart of the very beginning of Parliament's creation. But I also expressed my thoughts about the need to complete one question and create conditions for the continuation of consultations. That is, when we consider the issue today, we, on the one hand, will be able to form committees, taking into account the factions' positions, the wishes of the deputies and their professional level; on the other hand, we will be able to hold consultations between the political forces and complete the process of creating a broad coalition, if that works. If this fails, the majority and opposition will be clearly defined and taken into account. I also want to pay attention to another situation. Today there is intense pressure on the court, the Pecher Court, to make an illegal decision on illegality, such as the election of the Chief of the Supreme Council and the suspension of its powers until all the other procedures provided for in the Rules are resolved. Such a decision would pose a threat to Parliament's effectiveness. And that is why we have to resolve the matter with the first deputy today, because if even the decision against the Head has been taken, the first deputy has the right to hold meetings in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules. That is why I propose that we consider this issue in a consistent manner. And so I would like to give the floor to the head of the reckoning commission, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u27	The honourable national deputies are known to have held the first meeting of the reckoning commission on May 25, 2006. There was a meeting of the chairman of the preparatory group, National Deputy Boki. The meeting was attended by only 12 national deputies – representatives of BUT, “Our Ukraine”, SPI. The head of the reckoning commission was elected National Deputy of Ukraine Chago, deputy head of the Committee of Counts of Chubarov, Secretary of the Commission, Filindash Evgen Vasilovich. [[BUT faction]] [[Yuschenka block "Our Ukraine"]] In view of today’s repeated invitation by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the head of the Counting Commission to perform his functions, the head of the Counting Commission did not join them. [[Here's a stenographer in my hands, there's a stenographer.]] After the break, Alexander Aleksandrovitch says: “According to the procedure, a reckoning committee should meet. I invite the members of the counting committee to meet on the third floor and decide on the procedure. We will vote in ballots, form and everything else is provided for in the Rules." In view of the fact that we have waited an hour and a half, the head of the Counting Commission and 10 other national deputies of the BUT Commission and the faction "Our Ukraine" have come, I ask you to accept the protocol for the well-known organizational meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 11 July. Commission members present: 12 out of 22 are present. The reckoning commission is competent. Kozub, Komar, Korsakov, Final, Pecklusenko, Riaruk, Stoyan, Sulkovsky, Dry, Tarasov, Filindash, Cibenko Heard: Information from the Secretary of the Counting Commission of Filindash about the head and deputy head of the Counting Commission. We were commended for not appearing at the meeting of the Counting Commission to relieve the head of the Counting Commission, Shago Eugen Petrovich, and the deputy head of the Counting Commission, Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanović. To be elected head of the Military Commission of Dry Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, deputy head of the Counting Commission of Cibenk Petar Stepanovich. They voted "yes" to 12, "against" to 0, held to 0. Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 38 of the Rules, we need to approve the form of a secret ballot for the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The newsletter will look like the following: it's a pattern. The first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Martinyuk, on the right is a cell to identify and not support the candidate, a cell to define. Signatures on the bulletin: Heads of the Counting Commission, Deputy Head of the Counting Commission and Secretary of the Counting Commission, for which is protocol No. 1 of the meeting of the Counting Commission. There was a hearing of the approval of the form of a secret ballot for the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Counting Commission decided to approve the form of a secret ballot for the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. White paper in the form of a quadrilateral, with a black color for it. ballot paper on the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 11, 2006. The signatures of the 12 members of the counting committee are given. Dear Alexander Alexander, please put to the vote a question, please put to the vote the issue of the approval of the form of the ballot in the election of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 11, 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u28	I put to the vote the issue of the approval of the form of the ballot proposed by the Counting Commission. Vote, please. [[21:04:17]] For 241 Decision taken. The voting procedure shall be announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u29	Honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. We need 15 minutes to produce the ballot papers in the form of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please give us the opportunity, 15 minutes, to make these ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u30	A break of 15 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u31	Deputy Suhi, who will announce the voting order. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u32	Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, the vote will take place at the same place, at the registration tables. Requests from 21.30 to 22.30 for an hour, as provided by the Rules. The request in the voting zone to behave culturally, properly, we'll be slicing whatever happens to stupid psychopaths. Keep in mind that no one then complains about anyone. Please come in, vote, urn. Go to the urn, determine your will. At 10:30 p.m., the vote will be closed. So I'm asking you to get organized right now, make 449 ballots, don't push, don't push, don't push everybody. Please proceed to the registration table.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u33	A recess is announced for the vote from 21.30 to 10:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u34	We're continuing the meeting. The word is given to the head of the reckoning commission of Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u35	Protocol No. 2 to the Meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 July 2006. Present: Head of the Military Commission, Dry, Deputy Head of the Counting Commission, Cibenko, Secretary of the Counting Commission, Filindash. Members of the Counting Commission: Abdulin, Biruk, Bondarenko, Kozub, Komar, Korsakov, Final, Paklusenko, Riaruk, Stasov, Stoyan, Sulkovsky, Tarasov, Shago. There have been reports of secret ballots for the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich was included in the ballot for the secret ballot on the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Based on the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established: 1. The number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized is 449. The other one. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 239. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 239. The number of ballots that are declared invalid is zero. The name, name and surname of the candidate is Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. The number of votes cast as candidate is 239, not supported, not supported. According to part of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, chapter 7 and articles 70 and 74 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided to consider the elected First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the protocol is accompanied by a separate opinion from the members of the commission: Abdulina, Bondarenko, Stassiwa, Chago and Biruk Let me read it. Somebody's sick, get some water. The worms are crawling.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u36	I'm asking you to advertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u37	The minutes of meetings of the counting committees are of a separate opinion. We, members of the Counting Commission, claim to violate the requirements of the Rules found during the organization and to hold the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ballot papers were prepared for approval by the Supreme Council and were not secured in full by secret ballots. Members of the Commission: Abdulin, Bondarenko, Biruk, Stasov, Chago. A particular thought is added to the protocol, and it was left without pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m1.u38	I see. So we have the opportunity to say hello. Adam Ivanovich was elected First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We welcome him and wish him success in the work. [[Applause]] Deputies! Please sit down. In view of the fact that we have considered the number, name, and list of the committees of the Supreme Council, the factions will have to be determined on this matter tomorrow, delegate their candidates to these committees. We'll discuss the issue of heads and other committee management tomorrow. So, in order to prepare this work and hold further consultations tomorrow, the meeting will not take place, it will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m. I'm announcing it. Thank you for your work. The evening session is closed.
