ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished MPs, journalists, invited, guests, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, Wednesday, the 13th number, the deputies are preparing for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. A registration is being carried out. [[10:01:57]] The attendance of 431 national deputies has been fixed. The morning session is open. In line with Wednesday's Rules, we have time for speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages, etc. So I suggest you sign up for the performance. Please. Grigorovich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u2	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. A statement by the faction "Our Ukraine" about attempted political settlement of the orange energy sector leaders and raids by the company of Western gas supply. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Recently, the Ukrainian people witnessed numerous attempts by the Antichrist Coalition to systematically discredit ministers and leaders of the orange team. The resignation under the intention of Yuri Lucenka, a disgraceful performance of Boris Tarasyuk’s refusal to work, unfounded accusations against Anatolia Grishchenka, testified to the sincere desire of antichrists to make a showoff against political opponents. Today, in the Ukrainian Parliament, a series of brutal innuendos is being opened up — an act of disgraceful display by the orange team. As a new target, the former Minpalevenergo and NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” were chosen. The mechanism of discredit is similar to that used during the anti-Hungarian campaign in 2004 through the Henprocurator's Office, the KRU and the Tax Office, to undertake in any way to dig up the compromise on the NAC ex-head “Naftogaz Ukraine” by Alexy Yvchenk. The baselessness and ingenuity of these accusations are very easy to prove – it is only worth noting that in 2005, under the leadership of Ivchenka NAK Naftogaz, Ukraine had net profits of more than 30 million dollars, while in 2004, the net losses of the company amounted to about 2 billion dollars. Clearly, attempts at dealing with orange energy sector leaders are not limited to seeking revenge or destroying political opponents. The working head of Minpalevenergo, along with his associates, successively pulls the gas sector out of government and tries to control the private structures to which they are directly involved. It is from the supply of Yuri Boyka Ukratranzaz that he deliberately goes into debt to Ukrgazenergo through an unbalanced pricing policy in the area of gas transport. For example, they have to take $95 a thousand cubic meters, but they do buy 135. As a result, the State faces the threat of total loss of State control over the NAC Naftogaz gas transport system. Today’s management of the power plant is in the process of creating monopolistic control of distributed gas networks. Then, as the events continued, the raids by the power structures on Zacarpatski, Ivano-Frankivsky, and other areas continued. The case even came to the fortitude of the premises, the threat and beating of the employees on December 7th, OVAT “Zakarpatez” without any means trying to own one of these companies. We claim that we will not allow similar situations to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Thank you. Calchenko. What, what? Tomenko will be here? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw attention to a very important problem that we discussed yesterday in the session room when we were friendly in favour of the three anti-corruption bills. I said then that it's obviously a good thing that our committee and the session room understand the danger of a new system of corruption that is built on the principle of the establishment of individual families or financial and political groups. While we were working in the session room yesterday, there was enough political opposition in Kiev, and unfortunately, yesterday we saw that in the capital of Ukraine, our city is run by a team of fars majors. If a city head is such a kind of political farce, then a group of majors with him who thinks that, on behalf of the Chinese, any decision can be made already poses, I think, a national danger in the country. So it happened yesterday, after our faction, along with our colleagues in "Our Ukraine," was trying to convince us that three or four times the tariff rise is some kind of fiction, made up, obviously not by people with planetary philosophy, and yesterday the city authorities said they were willing to go into concessions, but these concessions amounted to as much as 10 percent and 50 percent for the poor, we noted a whole range of, well, in our opinion, not just unpleasant, but dangerous trends. For the first time in the history of the local self - government system, the Kiev City Council allowed the majority to be protected in the session hall. There were dozens of militias in the neighborhood with guns. And I would also like to point out to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we have shown a foolish example when our committee, which has thus far taken care of, has yet to conclude that there is a council member in the session hall who is still proud to have been running and beating all the members of the Supreme Council. There is no conclusion from the Public Prosecutor's Office! If we now, as in the Kyiv City Council, are to meet with the city councils, there will be armed MPs. I think we're going to have local self-government. That's why we're insisting on creating a special investigation committee to deal with the facts of the beating of the Kiyevrada deputies, and these cases were, you know, last week. And Leonid Chernewsky, in his own cosmic style, said that he had help that beat them, but not so much. So I'd like to have Leonid Mikhailovich pick up some help from the shrink, so let him pick it up. We need to protect not only the members of the Supreme Council but the members of the Kiev City Council. I'd like to support our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u5	Thank you. Chukmasov. Danieline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. With the rise in energy prices to protect the population from rising tariffs on utilities, with the participation of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the anti-crisis coalition and the Cabinet of Ministers, a number of steps have been taken to implement practical things in order to facilitate this task for the population of Ukraine. This is also cheap self-sustainment gas for utilities, which is the streamlining of subsidies for our population, which is the budget compensation for energy for utilities, which is a 15 per cent margin of family income to compensate for all the rest of the budget for the underprivileged. In Kiev, at the initiative of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Horsov faction has taken a number of steps, including practical ones, on its initiative to date, tariffs have been reduced for two and a half thousand houses, and a social protection programme has been developed in the city of Kiev to ensure that the low-income segments of the population are able to pay the services they will receive and raise their tariffs. Our approach and factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in Kiev are one: people today need to tell the truth. The truth in the context of rising energy prices, in the context of the budget in which we will work in 2007. We must say that to date, those who can pay must pay, those who cannot pay – the authorities, the local authorities, we must ensure that this population is protected from rising tariffs. It is very strange what happened yesterday at the Kiev Council session, when the full-fledged BUREAU faction came to Kiev and by force, virtually toppled the 7-hour meeting of the City Council. If the BUT faction and the members of the Supreme Council of the BIT faction believe that breaking microphones, breaking chairs, monitors are their main task. Working in the Supreme Council and setting such an example in Kiev, the revolution must be done here in the Supreme Council, and if it is not done here, it will not lead to anything. I am ashamed of the individual colleagues of our Supreme Council deputies who acted in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u7	Thank you. It's stuck. It's a hunchback, isn't it? Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u8	Statement by the deputy faction of the Party of the Regions again regarding the meeting of the Kiev City Council on 7 and 12 December 2006. Respectable kyans, respected citizens of Ukraine! The session of the Kiev City Council on December 7 and 12, with a rating of negative visibility, belligerence and destructiveness, has defeated all the top-news of the last news days. The faction of the Party of the Regions claims. Kyivrada became the arena of the Doreider attack by the National Deputies, members of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. The intense search for a compromise solution to the work of the working group on the economic feasibility test of new tariffs, the search for social protection mechanisms for the most vulnerable groups, was undermined by a BUIT hurricane. The opposition, which now forms a minority in the Kiev City Council, failed to ensure the proper conduct of the issues in a legal way, has resorted to old destructive receptions — massacres, fights, threats, breakdowns of meetings. This once again shows that, not the tariffs and well-being of people are of interest to these politicians, but the destabilization of the situation in the capital, an effort to establish in society the acceptance of the principles of minority dictatorship. The saddest and safest thing is that the theme for political speculation and the subject of political accounting has not only been the topic for China – new housing and utility tariffs. A party of regions has always been on the side of the Chinese and not only the Chinese, but also all the citizens who will face new problems of paying tariffs at new rates in 2007. The most valuable thing in this situation is ex-governments who, over a year and a half, have scattered all the positive socio-economic baggage in Ukraine, put down price policies on gas, and now have public hysterics with training on how to live properly. Because it was these orange adventurers who planted a price bomb for local self - government authorities, cutting through long - term gas agreements for the supply of gas from Turkmenistan and Russia at a price of $45 per thousand cubic metres for five years. Today, not only Kyivrada but all the local authorities are forced to solve these problems on their own. The Party of Regions claims its political position, namely, a consistent attitude towards constructive positions, a deliberate search for a consensus solution on all issues of concern to society, such as tariff issues. They are forced to say that political shows, destructive self - piazzars, not only call people right away to politics and politics, but also fear for the fate of the country and for every citizen. We are addressing the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the head of the Security Service of Ukraine to give a proper legal assessment of the actions of the national deputies that can be qualified as captures of state or public buildings and buildings. All problems with the functioning of their own parliamentary groups and factions in the respective local councils had to be resolved at the stage of the formation of electoral lists, not by actively trying to replace them with their own factions in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u9	A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u10	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Statement by the faction “Our Ukraine”. The political opposition between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine has become increasingly acute and has caused concern not only for politicians but also for society. The “Our Ukraine” faction appreciates the last steps taken by the government and the so-called Anti-Crist Coalition, such as those that do not contribute to the effective cooperation of the two authorities called upon to ensure political and economic stability in the state. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers, led by Viktor Yanukovic, today not only does not comply with the decree of the President of Ukraine but also the ruling of the court. A clear testimony is the strong blocking of Ukraine’s foreign minister Boris Tarasyuk’s participation in government meetings. This is an example of outright ignoring the law by the highest executive body. On another occasion, he confirms the real desire of an active government, not to rule, but to rule. The “Our Ukraine” faction believes that such actions by the government are aimed at raising the political crisis openly and states that justice will be upheld in all legal ways and will insist on the execution of the decisions of the Shevchenkov District Court. The testimony that the government and the Anti-Crist Coalition have taken the path of war for the authorization of the President of Ukraine is a re-registration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft decision on the release of the Minister of Defence of Anatolia Grizzenka. The “Our Ukraine” faction believes that individual political forces simply do not like Anatoly Grizzenk being exposed to corruption schemes and not allowing for the destruction of military property. After the illegal release of Minister of Foreign Affairs Boris Tarasyuk and Minister of Internal Affairs Yuri Lucenka, this resignation could become a new link in the effort to usurp power, that is, a slippery constitutional coup in the state. A hundred days of idleness show that usurpation of power can reach such limits as the rule of Lukashenko in a neighbouring state may seem very democratic to us. The faction “Our Ukraine” requires the anti-crisis coalition and the government of Yanukovic to return to constitutional order and avoid the temptation to establish an oligarchy regime in Ukraine. We are convinced that today the power of the head of state has reached an unprecedented level of history of Ukrainian independence. This situation is the result of an imperfect and underworked change to the Basic Law of Ukraine on 1 January 2006. The new constitutional coordinates did not bring harmony and greater balance into the system of authorities. The “Our Ukraine” faction supports the President's initiative to involve the general public in constitutional reform and emphasises the need for the swift lifting and the new.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u11	Instead of Razgonyaev, Kiselov is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u12	Respectable compatriots! The faction of the Party of the Regions has to say that in two years the revolutionaries have caused Ukraine’s economy irreparable damage. In 2004, the government of Yanukovitch signed an agreement under which the price of gas was set at $50 per thousand meters [thousand m] with the deadline of effect until 2009. And it was during the prime ministership of Yulia that Timoshenko had been unilaterally destroyed by years of long - term gas agreements with Russia and Turkmenistan. Knowing that from January 5, 2006, the price of gas would rise from $50 to 95, Timoshenko and then Yehanurov did not provide in the 2006 budget for compensatory mechanisms to compensate the population for the cost of rising housing tariffs. Instead, on March 30th, I note that as soon as the results of the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the local councils became known, Yehanurov strongly raised electricity and housing and utility tariffs with the introduction date of September 1, 2006. Although the gas was coming to Ukraine all of 2006 there were no corresponding changes to Ukraine’s budget at a price of $95. Ukrainian citizens should realize that neither the government of Yanukovic nor the anti-crisis coalition have any bearing on raising tariffs and this is a powerful confirmation on the example of the capital of Ukraine. The city of Kyiv was chosen not from the anti - crisis coalition, but only 8 percent of the members of the Kyivrad Regional Party were elected. And they can't influence the mayor's decision, and it's true that from the first day of the government's work, Janukovic himself has restored and held active negotiations at the price of gas, resulting in a 2007 gas price of $230 per thousand meters down by $130. We're here to destroy the gas schemes that were created in Lazarenko, where today's chiefs of Midan, avoiding paying taxes, and in other words, robbing Ukrainian citizens, have made billions. We want to know where 24 billion went. from the privatization of Krivoriztali. We are for the people to finally understand who to thank for what happened. To reduce the impact on the population, the government of Yanuković budgeted 7 billion people in 2007. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January on subsidies to local budgets, as well as 2.6 on grants under the CLF. No family will pay more than 15 percent of the total income; the difference will be compensated by the State. But unfortunately, the President's environment has once again prompted him to make a fundamental political decision -- not signing a budget that threatens to finance from January 1, 2007, social benefits, including payments to the HKG. In doing so, it should be noted that local budgets can be adopted, at best, in February, after the veto is lifted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u13	Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna, instead of Kirichuk and Taran, is speaking. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I would like to return all of us to the time of the parliamentary and presidential election campaign. I think the whole country, and we're with you, remember that Yanukovic on all television screens promised that when he came to power, the first thing he would do would be to return the crime price for the gas he had set up for Yehanurov in talks with the Russian Federation. He said that when we came to power, the gas would cost once again 50 dollars per thousand cubic meters. Lying is a lie. And after Janukovic arrived, not only did he not fall in price, but he agreed to raise up to $130 per thousand cubic metre. This is what fulfillment of promises looks like. As a result, there was a wave of tariff hikes across Ukraine today for all residential services. But if the total gas rose by 85 percent in its price, utilities increased 2.5-4 times in all cities, areas, villages, and villages. And this tells us that, in fact, certain plots that sit on lies, on archetypes that sit on all social networks, they take advantage of it with dignity and under the cover of the government today, practically destroying the family budget of each family. And today, the whole country is watching them just throw the last cents out of people's pockets. The government didn't just close its eyes, but as we heard from the rostrum today, it said that we have measures there, we have advice, let them exercise themselves, and the government will be a roof to rob people through unwarranted tariffs. That's the real situation today. I'd like us to start as national deputies if the government is incompetent throughout the country to check how well-defined the tariffs are. Our faction began in Kiev. The city of Kiev has formed a unique corruption union that includes the faction of Chernivecki, the faction of the Party of the Regions, and the Socialist Party of the factions. I remember how socialists used to go to social gatherings when they were still socialists, when they raised tariffs by 20 percent and raised the whole country and aroused it. And now it's 3.5 times in Kyivrad, and it's good for them. What's going on in Kiev, we've figured it out. Created in Kiev by the so-called “Kiyevenergoholding” where under the patronage of some Kiyivrada deputies and under the patronage of the city of Kiev, a virtual consolidation of all financial flows of municipal services has been created. And three and a half times higher tariffs are not justified. Our faction at the last session and at last night's session practically all of the faction of the Supreme Council came to Kievrada and we declared the mayor and his corrupt majority that we would not give the first priority to robbing the Chinese. Because it's a very simple model and this model is going to be used all over the country. First, they put up high tariffs, much higher tariffs, and people don't get paid for these tariffs. What we paid as tariffs will then be found in certain accounts of certain municipal leaders. And those debts that will form in humans will then be collected from them through the confiscation of housing. And the confiscation of housing in Kiev is practically billions of dollars then to those who manage it. And today, this risk in Kiev is an extraordinary faction of ours that will stop. We did the right thing yesterday, and we blocked the work of this session of Kyivrada. And what's more, we've already got the first results. Less than 50 percent for low-security tariffs have been reduced. 10 percent for all other residents of Kiev. But we will pursue a policy that is set in Kievrad until the tariffs are doubled and they do not meet the real value of these services today. In Kyivrada, too, 117 lands were put to the vote yesterday in Kiev without any competition, without any auctions. For this reason, almost every part of the earth is either the members of the Czernovetsk region, or the members of the Party of the Regions, or the deputies of other factions. And yesterday, when they realized that we wouldn't let them distribute this land, that we wouldn't let them have this session, that we wouldn't let them make a lot of money, they hid on the 10th floor of the men's room, and they held a session so that I wouldn't be able to go in there. Shame. But yesterday we didn't let them distribute the land, no piece, and it'll still be there. And that's why we insist that a temporary commission of inquiry be set up on the events in Kievrad, and we will now distribute this moment of verification throughout the country as established tariffs for the population of Ukraine. And you can rely on our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u15	Zabarski, please. Kushnarov, please. You can unite for just four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u16	Respectable compatriots! The MP's Party of the Regions believes it is necessary to draw society's attention to the situation that has arisen around the question of the referendum on Ukraine's accession to NATO and the status of Russian. I have to say that members of the presidential team continue to be guided by revolutionary desirability in their actions and expressions. In particular, President Viktor Balog's head of the Secretariat recently stated that the attempt to initiate a referendum on Ukraine's accession to NATO had failed. Whenever one person’s desire is to betray the will of all the Ukrainian people. By March 1, 2006, more than 4.6 million signatures had been collected in support of the referendum, which were given to the Central Electoral Commission at the same time. But the CEVC tried to ignore them in every way, but in response to a reminder, it reacted with angry allegations that most Ukrainian autographs seemed to be falsified. Apparently, the Centre for Elections acts carefully in harmony with its position with the Presidential Office, which wants Victor Balozi to be more powerful than the previous anti-crisis manager. The actions of the new presidential favorites are clearly aimed at a break in the referendum. This seems absurd in the context of Victor Yushchenk's famous statement at a meeting with students at Shewchenka National University. I quote: “Everyone understands – without a national referendum, no one will go to NATO.” Why, then, does the President’s Secretariat hold a referendum on the popular initiative of such obstacles? The Central Election Commission was due to make its decision by April 1 this year, but it is still missing. On December 11, the Pecher District Court of Kiev assessed the actions of the Central Electoral Commission, recognized the illegality of the CLTC and obliged it to summarize the overall summation of the collection of signatures of Ukrainian citizens for a referendum on NATO and Russian. The Party of Regions is convinced that holding a referendum is a sign of the irreversibility of Ukraine's democratic development. The referendum allows for a decent end to the social and political crisis and for a period of conflict around the most painful issues of the last two years. As a result of the above-mentioned parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions, it is appropriate to invite the head of the Davidovich CEVK to Parliament and to listen to his information on the work of the Central Electoral Commission on subsuming and holding a referendum on NATO and the status of Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u17	Thank you. Let us summarize briefly if we are to consider the work of the Supreme Council. Well, I learned today that Lucenko represents “Our Ukraine”. He's a socialist pusher and a change, by the way, agreed with him. So let's not say it's a persecution or a coup, because when the resignation was in September 2005, nobody thought it was a persecution or a coup, it was just a constitutional procedure. There were proposals to create a commission there, to verify the situation in the Kiev Council and so forth. I think that the people's deputies have to do their jobs, and the tariff cuts have to be fought by the MPs who are chosen by the Chinese. Those chosen should fight. It's, by the way, and, you know, growing up is going to be electorate consciousness, too. They will think of whom they choose. I'm not going to talk about other proposals, and I'm genuinely convinced that there's no involvement in the President's mandate, and today it's coming in line with the requirements of the Constitution for the authority of the President's institutions, the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. And there's nothing strange about it, the tension naturally happens, they need to be taken into account. We have a second reading of the draft law on the rate of export duty on the currency of alloyed black metals, the currency of colored metals and semi-factories and their use. Peter Alekseiovich Poshenko reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to welcome the people’s deputies, the entire session room, with a view to considering Bill 2398 on the establishment of export duty rates on black, colored and semi-manufacturers, and their use by the Supreme Council completes its consideration of the bills related to Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization and carries out the honorable mission it has undertaken. [[Export]] which depends on it to regulate the relevant legislation. At its meeting on December 12, the committee considered all the proposals that came to the second reading of the bill, which was adopted on the basis of November 29, 411 votes. The committee had received 10 proposals from the legislators. Of these, three amendments are taken into account, four are partially edited and three are rejected. The substance of the bill does not change these amendments, they are completely, the amendments that are considered by the committee, they are fully in line with the requirements of the World Trade Organization, agreed with the government and our working group, which already have 18 members to participate in the temporary working group. And we hope that effectively negotiated negotiations will allow for a long-awaited decision, a recommendation: to accept Ukraine as a full member of the World Trade Organization. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, with your permission, we can go after the amendments to the correlation table, or we can vote jointly on the amendments considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u19	I followed the second reading procedure after the first amendment of Seminoga. It's partly accounted for, he doesn't want to stand up for it? No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u20	It's included in a different edition, just modified rates. The general logic of the bill takes into account all the suggestions made by the national MP of Seminog.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u21	Second amendment counted. [[Deputies Prashenko and Kluev]] An editorial amendment of the third Kruglov and Kozachenka. Don't they? They don't have any pretenses. The rejected amendment of Kruglov's fourth and Kozachenko's. They do not insist on voting. Edited Amendment of Seminoga, fifth amendment. Just like the sixth fully accounted for by Clive and Dust. The seventh amendment of the Seminomist was rejected. He insists on her vote. Please, Seminoga takes the floor. And the eighth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u22	Anatoly Seminoga, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I want to point out, really, the professionalism of the working group that worked on this bill and thank my colleagues for the work and that my previous amendments have been taken into account. As for the amendment of the seventh and eighth, I agree with our colleagues' argument and remove these two amendments from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u23	Thank you. Then Kruglov’s ninth amendment is taken into account in an editorial way and does not insist on its review. Cossack 10th Amendment accounted for. Thus, we have reason to vote on the Law as a whole, in the second reading and in general. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u24	The committee requests that the bill be supported for adoption in the second reading and in general. [[10:39:08]] For 363
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u25	Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u26	I welcome you, distinguished national MPs, with the completion of the consideration of the WTO Bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the session, at the plenary meeting, when we considered amending the land code on the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land, we instructed the committee to work on the project today in such a way that in a column that is generally accepted, and only here are the transitional positions discussed, paragraph 4, the 14th paragraph was presented in an editorial that we agreed to yesterday. And paragraph 15 was voted in an editorial that was adopted in the first reading. Chechtev, please have a word. The discussion began yesterday with the position of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. We're adopting a little law on the one hand, but it's very important to the economy of the state, and here, they say, we shouldn't make mistakes. I'm asking you a lot because there's been some debate, right now, before the vote, where the debates came from representatives of different factions and most, and minorities, and I'm very much asking you to move this issue to tomorrow, to ask the first question for tomorrow, to be able to discuss again and to make the most optimal decision, taking into account the interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u29	Simonenko asked for motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u30	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I support this proposal today by Mikhail Vasilovich: to postpone its consideration, and above all, from the fact that again today those who have prepared this project for consideration in the Supreme Council have failed, including the commission that was given yesterday to preserve the first reading of this article, because there, in the first reading, it is clear what draft laws should be considered in the Supreme Council in order to settle certain relations that relate to the earth. The Communist faction strongly insists that the Supreme Council clearly define the program of action rather than the general phrases, in practice, allowing for the trading of land today. I come from the fact that the faction of Communists has repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that we have the only wealth left in Ukraine is land. In the earth, our nads, which are the riches of future generations, and today, just as some are trying to start trading in land, are unacceptable. The Communist faction insists on transfer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u31	Tomenko, what do you say about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! We had a debate today on the faction of this issue, and the faction stands for the general ideology, the approach proposed in paragraph 15 of this paper. What's more, I'd like to remind you, here are all the factions present, I understand, only the communists, perhaps with warnings signed, this has happened historically, two coalition agreements, where they made a commitment in such a spirit to move towards the formation of the land market. So we are ready to support this approach with one principled warning, Alexander Alexandrovich, that in paragraph "a". The 15th paragraph of the "a" entry to add "no change in the use of land within a separate category" is allowed, i.e. a change of destination. land of agricultural use. Now we have a situation of possible abuse in this part, so we would ask for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u33	The point is that paragraph "a". Now, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. Paragraph "a" is the right column, and we are talking about the second column voted in the first reading. So this is not going to vote at all. And there's a clear definition of when, what's the term to be done, what's the law to be regulated? Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, and we will, I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor, Alexander Alexandrovich. Indeed, the law is not simply important, but archival, since it refers to the determining right, the fundamental right of property conferred on Ukrainian citizens by the people of Ukraine on behalf of Parliament, in particular with regard to the administration of ownership of land. However, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I think it's worth supporting in this case the proposal of a faction of the Regions, because the drafting of paragraph 15 in the right column, which is formed by the committee, is actually more suitable to start a civil movement on land market formation. Because if we vote in the first reading of this law today, the undetermined terms and obligations of Parliament regarding the adoption of a series of laws essentially make this situation uncertain in time. And since the antichrist coalition today has a majority in parliament, it can be expected that it will not adopt these laws at all during a five - year term.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u35	Mikolo Vasilovich, let's make a point. The lines are defined in point 14 of the transitional provisions, and they are accepted. It's a 15th point. So your warning in this case is already taken into account. The deadlines are fixed, the list of laws is foreseen. I will now put to the vote the proposal to consider this issue tomorrow as the first plenary meeting. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:45:46]] For 256 Decision taken. And I would like to address Mikhail Vasilovich Gladys, head of the committee. Please take into account the parliamentary position that was expressed yesterday, for reasons of vote today. And I'm talking to the initiators of the development that are responsible for this case, especially the Bevanka deputy. Be careful. Mikhail Vasilovich, Mikhail Vasilovich! Chechatov. I'm again addressing those who are working on this project and making their proposals. The question is more serious than the adoption of the law, I want to tell you. It's about the functioning of power, the existence of coalition, a lot of other things. As we have written down in the covenant, so should be voted here. It's not going to go away. I'd like you all to understand that, and Michael Vasilovich, please as Head of the Committee, take these details into account. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to make a decision on the matter that has already been discussed. This is a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The State of Preparation for Ukraine's Introduction to the World Trade Organization, Problems and Prospects." We discussed the problem during the hearings in the Supreme Council. Vladimir Mihajlovich Zaplański, briefly for 3 minutes, provide information on the content of the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, on Wednesday, November 1, following the initiative of the Committee on Economic Policy in the Supreme Council, there were parliamentary hearings on the theme "The State of Preparation for Ukraine's Introduction to the World Trade Organization, Problems and Prospects." In accordance with the Rules, the Committee has prepared and submitted for your consideration a draft Supreme Council Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Preparation of Ukraine's Introduction to the World Trade Organization, Problems and Prospects". The recommendations take into account virtually all the proposals made by members of the parliamentary hearings. With a view to completing Ukraine's entry into the WTO and obtaining full membership to ensure effective participation in the formation of legal principles for the functioning of a multilateral trading system and public information, recommendations have been developed for the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, it provides specific information lines for the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine regarding the implementation of the recommendations. By December 20, this year, on measures taken to address the issues that hinder the conclusion of the negotiations on Ukraine's entry into WTO and on the status of the final draft of the working group's report on Ukraine's application for WTO. By February 1st 2007, on the status of implementation of recommendations on the basis of parliamentary hearings, the State of preparations for Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. At a committee meeting, it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approve the recommendations and monitor the implementation of the Economic Policy Committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u37	Thank you. The content of the recommendations, honourable deputies, was discussed during the hearings. The committee dealt with them taking into account the suggestions that were made here. I'd like your permission to support this document. Give, well, five minutes who wants to give their thoughts on this matter. Let's write down the factions, please. You guys take your seats. Say it now, sign it. Kuzmenko. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u38	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexanderovich! We have considered those recommendations carefully at the faction meeting and have no objection to the substance of the document. But in form and in terms of the fact that we have made very many comments there. First. The document is out of date and the dates that are there are long overdue. This is the first moment. Second moment. Procedure for setting up a commission. Under what conditions, how will it be formed? I don't understand. And the third most important moment. At the parliamentary hearings, we have repeatedly discussed and raised the issue that Ukraine needs an adaptation process to join the World Trade Organization. And this period will be very painful for our economy, for our industry. And we insisted that these recommendations recommend to our Government that the adaptation period be at least 10 years. To put it this way, the Government, in the negotiation process, again, does not have those positions, unfortunately, in those recommendations. They are already being processed twice, but unfortunately they all appear in the same way that they went to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u39	Please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u40	Ivan Gornik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, by decree, paragraph 1 “Support the Government's actions towards the completion of the procedure and the accession of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization”. The actions of our present government were such that even Vietnam was ahead of us. There is no further question of synchronization of the introduction with Russia. Thus, the formulation of such an item is totally not a reality. And all you can do here is formulate, take the government's well-known action on the procedure for Ukraine's entry into the WTO. And as for what Mr. Plaštinski said about parliamentary control over this process. Unfortunately, after reading the draft decree of this parliamentary review by the committee in question, I do not see any proposal to include it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u41	I ask everyone to be more delicate in their comments about other states. Vietnam’s population is larger than us, working consistently in this respect, and the pace of economic development is higher, so it is more delicate. Please, Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u42	Thank you. Alexander Aleksandrovich, I basically asked, you know, one minute, first of all, I didn't think to get into a fire, but I want a colleague from the orange coalition to say, if it wasn't for this government, if it weren't for our coalition, the question of joining the WTO would be where they were in the fourth call, right here at the bell tower in shouting and rap. It's good that we've found a normal procedure with moments to adapt to our economy. But that's what I'd like to ask the head of the profile committee. Please, we've got people dying in open hatches today, we've got miles of electric wire, we've got no electricity left, we've got whole settlements, we've got elevators stopping because they're barbaric, they're tearing all the metal. In order for these proposals and recommendations to be written down, proposals are made to the power structures: to explicitly use these requirements of the Criminal Code, not the Administrative Code, the Criminal Code to those people who barbaricly rob us and those who accept this metal. I'm talking about this black market for metallurgy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u43	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u44	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! The position of the Communist faction with regard to the WTO Laws is well - known. We have seen in the adoption of these laws only one purpose: to protect our domestic manufacturer from the fallout of foreign invaders, if you will. But they're accepted. The draft laws of the Soviets, which have been adopted, have proved to be lobbying for the interests of the WTO in Ukraine rather than protecting the Ukrainian producer from the World Trade Organization. But I just wanted to say something else. Alexander Alexandrovich, I see no point in adopting this decree, given that the last Soviet law was passed today. The procedure for adopting legislation, amending legislation has been completed. And what is the role of this ruling regarding the recommendation of parliamentary hearings today? I don't think it's really necessary today, actually, because all the laws are necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u45	Thank you. You're a widower.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u46	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I asked. I wanted to ask the committee's head. It states that only Kyrgyzstan and I have not yet entered a protocol. I don't see any particular problems with Kyrgyzstan there, but it's up to Kyrgyzstan to see whether or not they're going to accept Ukraine to WTO, not the Communist position. The second question. What about Taiwan? We have problems with Taiwan, and that's what I wanted to ask. But in the course of the discussion, I have a serious question on the proposal to form a joint parliamentary-government commission from Ukraine's integration into the WTO, as my colleague Matvienkov spoke about. We are removing the Presidential Vertical from the work of this commission because today the President is responsible for foreign policy in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u47	Thank you. In fact, a discussion took place. And here the right MPs are concerned that this decision, if it were adopted that day, would still be in line with the substance of the situation. Since all laws have been passed, it seems that there is little logic in what we are proposing. So how would you look at that proposal? In order to record not the recommendation, but the results of the parliamentary hearings on "Preparation State". And then they would write in the first paragraph: “Take into account that Parliament has approved laws that provide for Ukraine's entry into WTO, problems and prospects” and are added here. In the second paragraph, write in the second part of this regulation: “To inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 1 February 2007 about the state of preparation for entry” and not to refer to our recommendations. This is a matter of the Cabinet of Ministers, he's going to make those proposals, and we're going to look at the details that Sergey Matvienkov talked about on December 20, and so on, and so on, we could accept the document. But since I am proposing these questions from a voice, I would like to suggest that we make a decision for the first reading and work on it by next week, so that you can record all the things that the MPs here have said. So the draft decree is based on the first reading. Please, on the first reading. [[10:58:28]] For 373 Vladimir Mikhailovich, please take note of my comments and work on the document on Monday, and take into account the proposal made by Sergey Matvienkov and other deputies to strengthen control of this matter and the procedure for entering all positions into the World Trade Organization. The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Laws "On State Service" and "On Executive Conduct" is being considered, reports Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. I can't see him. Deputy Justice Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u48	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You have submitted a draft Act amending the Act on State Enforcement and Enforcement. Although the project may be available on several pages, the completion of the document is linked to only one question. This is about the liquidation of the government administration of the State Department of State Executive Services and the inclusion of this department in the Ministry of Justice. Properly reorganization at the local, district level, district and city levels, and the introduction of State Executive Services into the administrations of justice. So it's essentially about bringing back that editorial that existed at the beginning of 2005 to the last changes in these laws. What is involved in these changes, and what will this give us to make practical decisions? The point is that the system of justice is, of course, too complex, in every district and city we have our own administration, in every district city we also have our own administration of justice. In 2005, the change took place in such a way that the Department of State Executive Services moved away from control at the district level, moved away from the administrations of justice, and was about vertical subordination at the level of the Department of State Executive Services. So the main goal, what I want to stress right now, is that it's increasing control over the performance of the executive service, it's fixing organizational security at the level of each district and city, and it's certainly going to result in the right of citizens to freedom in the execution of judicial decisions, and an increase in the performance of the State Executive Service. I ask, honourable national MPs, to support this bill and approve it today. And if possible, including the first reading as well as the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u49	Thank you, Inna Ivanovna. Will there be questions? Sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u51	Keykovsky Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u52	Thank you very much. Dear Inna Ivanovna, I have a question: What causes the need for a fracture, an extermination, as you said, although the bill does not contain the State Executive Service? Is she out of control by the Justice Department? I mean, it doesn't work, doesn't it? Have there been so many corrupts there that they cannot be planted? Does the State Executive Service not know how to deal with the local authorities, and the departments and administrations of justice want to help her? Which of these three options is a problem, an explanation for everyone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u53	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, this is not about the fact that the executive service is not currently in the system of justice. She was and is now in the system of justice. The point is that let's take the organization of the activities of every ministry, any department, not just the Ministry of Justice, in the direction, or the Ministry of Internal Affairs, or other ministries. It's about creating a single body at the district and district level, and we're talking about what should be the district administration of justice, which should be dealing with issues and the state executive service, and what we're talking about is what we're talking about, the notary, and the civil registration issues. It's about the only organ, it's about the formation of one policy in every region, in every city. So this project is designed only to properly organize and ensure the work of each executive service, so that, I said, their activities have been strengthened.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u54	Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u55	Please tell me the word "reform" is, you know, always related to some kind of fear. But I would like to know if this next reform will lead to the quality of our work? You probably know from our letters, from our addresses, we're talking to you, and in practical terms, to be honest, the executive service, the executive implementation beyond control and the coefficient of their work is zero. People ask for help to enforce judicial decisions, but unfortunately only those interested in implementing bodies are executed. So I'm really interested in whether they're essentially going to change their approach or whether they're going to change their quality. Or reducing our references to the common people who hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. That's what this bill is all about. What we're saying is to strengthen both the quality of the work of the state executive service and to reduce that large amount, I agree with you, the complaints that are coming from the State executive service and from making it a system. This service is transparent, including for every citizen available, transparent at the level of each area, not just here at the level, what we're saying, from the central apparatus, but at the level of each area, accessible and transparent to the average citizen, especially what we're saying when the left number of executing documents is just collecting wages, that's bringing alimony, that's what's going on for every person. And this is, in percent, probably not less than 30 percent of the number of implementing documents, this is exactly the kind of category that applies to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u57	Mikola Cowzel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u58	I'd like to give the floor to Eugene Korniychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u59	Eugene Korniychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u60	Dear Inna Ivanovna, the matter was discussed by the Committee of Legal Policy. And the position of the committee was, you know, ambiguous. Only a year ago, other changes to the same law were under consideration, which provided for the creation of a separate department. Now we're giving back the executive service to the Ministry of Justice. Well, we're not little kids to play with and make fun of the whole country: handing it back and forth! Here's my offer. We are studying the experience of many countries in the world, which shows that the most effective executive service is if it works under the auspices of the Supreme Court. It was in Soviet times, and this is how the system of Germany, Russia, France, and many European countries works. Please accept my offer and send this bill for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u61	Dear Eugene Volodymyrovich, thank you for asking. I would like to begin with the latter: with regard to the experience of many other countries, and in particular with regard to finding enforcement issues in the Supreme Court, that is, finding them in the judicial system at all. Well, you gave examples of Germany, Russia. Sadly, that is not the case. The Institute of Judicial Services in the Russian Federation is the competence of the Ministry of Justice, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, and it is part of the system of justice, not of the Supreme Court. The same situation in Germany. And that experience that is in most countries, it is justice that is responsible for these issues, and although there are, of course, such countries. But in a large minority, where it's the jurisdiction of the judiciary. As for, you mentioned that recently, indeed, more than a year ago, changes were made to the Law on State Executive Service, to the executive implementation, where it was proposed that this reform and the establishment of a government authority of the State Executive Service Department. That's what I showed you this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u62	Thank you, sit down, please. The committee's profile reports to the deputy chairman of the committee on legal policy, Bespali Boris Jakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, your point is that the bill, well, is quite important and the reporter from the Ministry of Justice has been quite rightly noted that although this bill is very, well, it's large in scope, in fact, the question is only one that's being resolved -- it's an organizational administrative issue faster. It's about making it a department of the State Department instead of an independent department today, and it's a department of the Ministry of Justice, and accordingly the territorial departments are part of the Department of the Territorial Ministry of Justice. That's the whole point of the bill. Well, what are the reasons? The state of decision-making, it's a cause for concern to all of us. I want to inform, let's say, just two digits. So today there are 8 million open performers, about 8 million open executioners, so that's every single, not even 5th adult Ukrainian, that's a huge number. And the sum is 24 billion, so the price of the question is 34 billion are now in the process of doing this. Clearly, then, it is a question that cannot be overlooked. Moreover, the right to a fair trial is enjoyed by citizens, and justice ends when a judicial decision is justly made and executed. Because people, actually. No matter what they said, it is important that justice be brought to an end. And in view of these circumstances, the committee considered the bill in a fairly operational order. The government has designated this bill as a priority, there is an appropriate letter from the government, and the committee has considered these issues carefully. The concern of all committee members was shared, but the approach was mixed. In addition to the position contained in the bill, there was, in fact, the position that was expressed in the question of a colleague -- the national deputy of Korniyczuk -- concerning the inclusion of executive services in the judicial system itself. But the committee's decision was as follows: the committee, after considering the proposed draft law number 2565, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, made a clear decision: to adopt the bill as a basis, I stress, not as a whole, but only on a basis, and to entrust the Committee on Legal Policy to finalize the bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legal entities. Why? The text is big enough, although the concept is simple, so the position of the committee was that. The votes on the committee were as follows: six members of the committee voted in favour of the draft decree, two members of the committee, and one member of the committee abstained. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u64	Will there be questions? Sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u65	National Deputy Valérie Pisarenko. I'd like to ask: here, in fact, the reform of the executive service took place only a year and a half ago. Whether there are any negative effects on the implementation of this reform and, if so, there may be a need to review and return to the reform previously undertaken with regard to the presence of the executive service in the courts. And did the committee consider reforming the executive service on the proposal that Korniyczuk had made here regarding the subordination of the executive service to the courts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u66	I would like to agree with the author on the part that in a year and a year and a half, of course, to sum it up -- clearly, it's early. Moreover, the terms of the executions are such that some of them were in one order and have not yet been completed. And so, really, on the committee there was a fairly professional and serious discussion on this issue, and the perspectives here were distributed. Including the suggestions made by Mr. Korniyczuk, but these are alternative proposals. Under the Rules, an alternative bill can only be introduced within 10 days, which has not happened, or if the bill is not supported in the session room or not accepted, it will not be put into effect for other reasons. For example, as a result of the President's veto. Thus, the national deputies, members of the committee, will return to the consideration of the matter. To date, we have this bill that has been passed by the government, which has been supported by most members of the committee for adoption as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u67	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u68	Boris Jakovic, indeed, had a rather constructive and professional discussion on the committee. And it's a shame that there's no minister of justice today, because as an argument in favour of the adoption of the bill, at least he brought in two, I remember. One of them said that one of the initiators of the bill was the executive department itself, which was very interesting. That's why I have a question. Have you somehow been able to reconcile this matter with them, or have you not been able to negotiate with them, to find out what they are thinking? That's the first question. And the second. Could you now give a dynamic view of the execution of court decisions before the previous amendments to this law were made a year and a half ago and over the last year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u69	We do have statistics. But I've already said that it's quite difficult to estimate the dynamics, because, more faithfully, it's not the dynamics, it's the state of execution of court decisions in new order, and it's when this department was in Minsk, when there were law enforcement officers. Obviously, the earlier execution was higher, but it was another political system, because a lot of executive leadership, they're passed on for this, well, in this matter of inheritance. As for the department, the department is not a subject of the legislative initiative, and they know that the bill, well, was considered on the committee, but the department’s management, well, expertly speaking, did not express its point of view. So I didn't think it was necessary, well, let's say, to put the heads of the department and put them in conflict with their future, but I did notice, for example, in an article in the Herson District Council "Superprian Truth" there was an article by the head of the State Executive Service in the Herson area, that is, and according to these dynamics, when it was independent, executive service, is positive, for example, in the Herson area.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u70	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u71	Boris Yakovich! Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”. You're, like I used to be, a major MP. You know about the trouble that happens with people who have had accidents to judge, especially if they have a state to blame, if the enterprise owes them money, if the state is guilty of a person's disability, so I'm surprised to hear from you that this department itself has been very good. I have a question for you to follow. Your position is self-explanatory, let the department be on its own, the Ministry of Justice on its own, but would you please tell me if there is any work on your committee? Well, there's a judicial unit in Russia, is there any work? How, then, can we make decisions in Ukraine possible in the end? Is it possible to accept any changes and additions to the Criminal Code, perhaps by taking measures of forceful influence that would result in irreparable punishment? Because what if the police find someone, catch them when a court order may not be executed?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u72	Thank you. I don't, by the way, accept the complaining that I'm expressing my personal position, because my personal position is not exactly that the department should remain a separate structure and, if you have this impression, it just speaks about the objectivity of my information. I referred to objective information. The state of execution of my court decisions, like you, really bothers me, and that's why our concern is shared and there was no member of the committee who would say that this situation pleases us. There are very serious problems where, for example, the execution of court decisions where a citizen wins a suit in the state. For example, there are a lot of examples, I know that as a district deputy when a person wins a case in the Tax Administration, but he can't turn it back, for example, because there are no reimbursements in the budget assignments to the Tax Administration, which there are no costs. And they can't do that, or they're going to violate budgetary discipline. It's really such a problem, other problems. This bill needs to take a closer look at the executive service system, but this bill doesn't solve these questions, he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u73	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u74	One question, you don't have to add another here. This is an administrative, organizational question, how to organize the subordination of the State Executive Service. I would like to stress again because it was said differently here. The decision of the committee I represent is to support the bill given on the basis. And my or your personal point of view is going to be in the vote, and I wasn't doing any agitation here, hopefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u75	Thank you, Boris Yakovitch, sit down, please. Are there willing discussions? Let's log in from factions. It's from the factions. And now from the MPs without the heathens. Press, press Catherine Semenovna, push. Let's have 21 minutes. Please, Corge, Baby, please. Please, two days no longer heard a voice, the miner next.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u76	The previous colleagues who spoke on this bill have already pointed out that in the last two years, the authorities of the State Executive Service have been reforming for the second time. We remember when a year ago, a single department of the State’s executive service was doing so, and we argued that the efficiency of its work needed to be improved. Because millions of court decisions are not being implemented. The question is that today the Ministry of Justice is proposing that we do this back to the structural unit of the Ministry, similarly Motivating that it would help to better execute judicial decisions. I don't think the Ministry of Justice understands why court decisions are not being made. If they don't understand, I'll name one of these reasons, is that there's no financial capacity to execute court decisions. For example, the teachers who require payment of the debt are asked to do so because the budget does not provide the funds. And that's why it's all, and it's just a bunch of court decisions, and it's not being implemented. And at least you can move from one office to another, or how it does so, or, for example, a dispute between the host entities. As long as the trial goes on, the Master Court has long been rewriting the property into a different structure and has arrived, and that is all. And there's nothing besides a chair and there's these court decisions, and they don't work. And you're telling us here that we're going to translate it back, we're going to make it a structural unit, and then it's going to be better done. Yeah, that's not true. And if you take statistics, which, by the way, Colleagueless referred to, how many millions of court decisions were not implemented and compared to what was before, when the State Department of Executive Services was the structural unit of the Miniustu, you'll see that the situation actually improved. And the court rulings began to be done better than before. That is, there is no motivation for doing so except that perhaps the minister of justice wants to feel more strongly about having someone else in charge. When he signs orders about an assignment or a release. I mean, roughly speaking, the ponto would add it to it, but whether it would add efficiency to the execution of court decisions, I'm sure it wouldn't, from all these reorganizations and other changes. On the contrary, it destabilizes the work of the executive service. And it was correctly said by my colleague Korniychuk that this should be transferred to the judiciary, not to the Supreme Court, but to the knowledge of the judiciary. And then the judiciary has to control the execution of these court decisions. That's why we don't support this bill, and we suggest that we send it back for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u77	It's been a joy to offer, isn't it, Oleg? Please, Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u78	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. I'm actually kind of interested in looking at this bill. It seems to me that this is another attempt by one of the ministries of our government to cross out the axiom, that the amount is not changing from the transfer of the additions. They're trying to get the guys to move the plugs and change something else. But I'd like to remind Alexander Volodymyrovich, in the last summons, when he was the minister of justice and this department was completely in line with the Ministry of Justice, I've addressed some things several times. A man was robbed, a car was stolen, and this executive service, being part of the Ministry of Justice, was unable to make compensation to my electorate for the thief who had defiantly abused him by going to the new Mercedes. So was it better when the department wasn't on its own? I want to remind Alexander Volodymyrovich that at the time when the department was in his custody, I was asking him that one of the heads of this department wanted to harm the Ministry as a result of his decision. Thankfully, then, Alexander Volodymyrovich reacted quickly and was not hurt enough to repeat the mistakes that had been too short a time since he had evaluated the department’s actions. In principle, I can't tell the voters that something special has changed. Statistics may have improved, but court decisions are still not being implemented. As before, intelligence with the help of the executive service thrives. I have great doubts that this transition will help to make a difference. Obviously it is necessary to improve legislation so that the executive service has greater rights and opportunities, greater responsibility for its actions, and a perfectly sound thought worthy of consideration and implementation is the proposal to transfer this service to the judicial branch of power. Our faction has solved this bill and has decided not to support it and proposes to the Supreme Council to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u79	Jaroslav Suhi, please follow him Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u80	Dear friends, and angry friends, I now know who the classic wrote about: "And fear is not far from the people." Think about who you're protecting? You must protect the people. You have to protect the person who first suffered from a miscarriage of justice and then suffer for the second time from a miscarriage of justice. It is no coincidence that this State Department, which has turned into a closed stock company, has rushed to you for support. It is very scary that the government will also get to those schemes in order. Why is there much time or time? Look what people are suffering! It seems to me that the proposal for the department to become a structural unit of the Ministry of Justice is based on the following. And remember the majority of those to whom we wrote letters with you when the language went on, but the decision to pay was not executed. It's a tragedy! According to their regression. It's a terrible disaster! We wrote in the district administration of justice. Why would we allow competition between the district administration of justice and the district service that was to be carried out, to pass on to the courts decisions that were not being implemented, again, what good would that do? I believe that this bill needs to be supported not only on the basis but also on the whole in order to allow for a new year to be implemented by the courts. I didn't ask the profile committee's representative by accident, and we have some other mechanisms working or giving us a chance? There are invalid references to Russian experience here. We don't have a law enforcement institute. And I'll remind you that a judicial unit in Russia is similarly subordinated to the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry is directing and directing it. So it's nothing like that. But please remember, do we have the opportunity to boast today that our parliamentary intervention in some judicial decision has been implemented and implemented? No, we don't. So we need to step up, improve legislation and not in the interests of any corporate group of officials, but in the interests of the community, in the interests of the people, especially those who have suffered injustice from the state who are unable to exercise their rights today. I mean, they're sitting there shaking their heads to the left and right. You, if you have any comments specific, real, angry friends, and go out and say so. And I'm telling you from the fact that we have letters from those voters who suffer from the imperfections of the decision-making process itself. I propose to adopt this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u81	Valerius Pisarenko, please. After him, Korniychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I am the head of the Subcommittee on Organization and Activities of the Executive Services. On the committee, when we considered this issue, I abstained from voting and I want to say my point of view on this point. Why is this question now being raised? This is about a return to the situation that was leading up to the 1995 reform. You and I have already passed this stage. In 1995, a separate structure was created from the executive service. Yes, there are negative moments in her activity right now, but they've still been. The statistics provided by the department today are unfortunately positive for the initiators of this bill. The number of executions, it's increasing, the executive service is working, and can we do what the executive service has done today, to judge it, and to ask the question that let's go back to what was a year ago. And what I really want to say is that this reform, which took place in the year 95, was also viewed, and it was reflected in the Council of Europe resolution, which also highlighted the positive aspects of this reform. And in fact, unfortunately, this bill, it's being dealt with in an operational way. I want to let you know and let you know that we are currently considering a major reform of the executive services. And maybe here we need to get a little bit more detailed on this bill and do some deep work with this bill first. And we need to decide, do we really need to go back today, or do we need to look for other ways and adopt the practice that is now in other countries? Let's not be one-sided, let's not just look at the ability of the executive service within the Ministry of Justice. We have both judicial authority today, and all the legislation today shows that the executive service is a service that works for the final stage of the trial. Let's not forget that either. We are open to cooperation with the Ministry of Justice today and are open to working to improve this legislation. But let us not say today that we receive thousands of letters from our people. I also receive such letters as the head of the subcommittee. But this does not mean that there was no such thing before, and there will be no such letters after this reform. We need to take a closer look at this bill. And so our position will be to work out this bill along with the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u83	Eugene Korniychuk, please. After him, Katerina Samuels.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u84	Dear friends, I am the first deputy head of the Committee of Legal Policy, and believe that the draft law for us is one of the priorities of the committee and the most important. We're putting it at the same level as the new Law on Economic Societies, with the new Notary Act, which is that these laws are systemic and important for the development of all civil legislation. That's why we tried to approach this bill in a balanced and serious way and to work it out clearly and completely and to be 100 percent confident that the bill will help people. I didn't want to get caught up in political emotions, but Mr. Jaroslav Dry did call me up to something. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that within any government body, the executive service will become a tool for the execution of political decisions, and please don't tell me that's not true. First. Secondly, we are, believe me, just as you are concerned about the interests of the simple voters. And we're also trying to understand what would be useful for a simple person who would try to make a decision. Note this. That decisions taken against public authorities with the State’s executive service within the public body would be very difficult to carry out. That's why I'm talking about the need for a comprehensive study of the world's experience, to figure out where we are in this system of coordinates, not just going back to the old system that has already survived and has shown its incompetence. That's why I'm paying attention to you, dear colleagues, that even during the hearings on the committee of the position of someone you call "so-called beloved friends," they've split up and my colleagues at the Yulia Block have voted differently, because we're all of the bills that we're considering on the committee, not as political orders, but we're trying to do everything as experts. That's why I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to give us an opportunity on the committee to examine the world's experience, to explore all the possibilities, and only then to submit the amended bill to the Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u85	Catherine Samuel, please. She's behind her, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u86	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of this bill and propose that everyone vote in favour of this bill, because what is happening today in the execution of judgments and so on, it actually resembles a total fraud. I don't know if it's a department or not, but the lawyer should know that the subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, regardless of who prepared it. I mean, the problem is, really, it's too urgent. And they've already said that these are the problems of implementing the 57th article of the National Budget of Ukraine, since this article exists, and these are particularly gruesome facts, especially in the agro-industrial complex. As a result, those who squander technology walk calmly — all their possessions in general. And the most serious crime is that the executive services get in touch with the judges, they take decisions outside the law. And as we know, the courts are always right, and the people are always wrong. They took the best technology, sold it for nothing, and, more faithfully, handed it over to their own structures. In Hersonish, two rural councils, large village councils, were thus unknown to anyone who did not know how it went. That's absurd. And so we need to support the efforts of the Ministry of Justice, the government of the Anti-Crist Coalition, because by supporting the bill, we support our people. I think that's an urgent question. Let me give you another example. The Brillian ATP for five years is being tried by a criminal group. The court takes decisions in favour of the labour force, goes to the execution of a court decision, and the court executive goes to the place where this technique is focused, the numbers are collapsing, and the opposition is organized. And the orange power is the district and district administrations are silent about it, and the collective is completely devoid of everything. So once again, I want to support the government's efforts, the Ministry of Justice's efforts, I don't think we can put it down on this issue. This issue should be resolved here in the session room immediately. And we need to do everything we can to ensure that the law is enforced in order for it to be properly enforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u87	Thank you. Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, indeed, the bill that we have the privilege of considering in this session hall today is completely controversial and, as it were, ambiguous. At least 1.5 years ago, the Supreme Council made a conceptual decision on the dedependence of the Department of Executive Services and, as I was able to find out, it was caused by recommendations made by the Parliamentary Assembly monitoring committee of the Council of Europe in front of Ukraine. Now, however, the Ministry of Justice, which is actually responsible for adapting European legislation in Ukraine, introduces a conceptually different matter, returning to the previous state. I understand the logic of the fact that the work of this department as an independent body is completely ineffective because there is no improvement in the dynamics of court decisions. But the matter is being considered on the committee, the minister of justice said that the peak of the failure to implement such decisions was about the 2001 period, when the department was part of the Ministry of Justice. This is obviously not the underlying problem, as it were, of the problem. The problem is, of course, because, in fact, in a very short period of time, it's already been talked about here today, the department has become. This can be said openly, by such a large industry, perhaps even after making money and using it as such a dishonest tool in the hands of the raiders, especially the latest events testify to this. But on the other hand, you need to understand perfectly that it's completely unclear why the department itself initiated a review of this issue and a return to the previous state. I think there's a lot of questions. I'd really like to believe, and I understand that I've come to realize that it's going to be taken up in this session hall, that, God forbid, we're going to have to go back to our previous situation and undo this decision again in the near future, because I'm more than convinced that it's a temporary management decision, and that's not how it's going to be resolved. So maybe we should think about how to radically change the concept of approaches to solving this issue, and perhaps in the future we should agree that the work of this particular structure is subordinated to the execution of judicial decisions, and the bill should somehow be linked to the judiciary. The other thing is that you have to hear the opinion of the judiciary itself. You know how many problems there are that the Supreme Court can't consider, it doesn't know how to deal with the 50,000 complaints that have accumulated for its resolution. Because the Supreme Court has been deprived of the legislative initiative, it is obvious that we, members of the Legal Policy Committee and the Justice Committee, should return to this issue by studying the situation and international experience and, above all, by asking the judicial branch of power as much as it is willing and willing to resolve the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Each speaker expressed interesting thoughts. In summary, I'd like to say two points. First moment. You can see here that it's proposed to improve the management system by reducing the cost of this control, because there is now essentially a central central authority of executive power, which has all the vertical power up to the bottom, and so in every area, there are governments -- states, rooms, wages, cars, and so on. And with this project, the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing to pass it on to the Ministry. And in the center of any village, there will be not two self-governances anymore, but there will be only one administration of justice that will do so. This is one moment. The next point is that we should quickly address this issue as we approach the new financial year. And that's why, of course, one management system, when it's a single central authority, and the other thing is funding and so on, scheduling and budgeting when it's in the Ministry of Justice itself. That's what I'd like us to pay special attention to. On the other hand, many colleagues feel that this body should be transferred to court. He has the right to life if we had the same judgment as in the countries to which we refer. And of course, if we're now in this system of courts, which we're all about, starting with the President and ending with every citizen, we're talking about where they're in, and we're handing over their own decisions, then you and I are really going to scream even more. Now we're talking about how these decisions are being implemented. So I suggest, let's support the Cabinet of Ministers. But no one is prevented from passing any bill, from passing it either to Minnesota or to the prosecutor's office, or from bringing it all together into one legal body at all, is the right of each and every one of us. And since there's a bill, I'd like to propose, I'd like to stress again, and I'm addressing you, colleagues, let's face it with understanding that we're on the verge of a new fiscal year. So I suggest you accept it as a law, and then we'll consider other proposals. Because. Now, now. One point is to transfer it to the Ministry, that is, transfer it to the judicial system of power. This is a completely different concept. I am voting on the adoption of the Act, number 2565, amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Enforcement Service and on the Implementation of the Reform of the State Enforcement Services in the First Reading. [[11:45:25]] For 240 Please, Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u90	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, I would like to thank you for your support in the first reading of this draft law and to highlight a few circumstances. Condition one. The initiative to enact this law belongs to me personally. Circumstances of another. I can only take responsibility for the area of work if you have the opportunity to organize its work. Condition three. In addition to performance indicators, there are other statistics, statistics on broken criminal cases, and cases of administrative misconduct. And there's also statistics on citizens' appeals and personal impressions that I've had a lot of opportunities to get. I don't think I should be talking about things that don't honor the government. Here's the situation. It is that the standards of this law, which are now being proposed, have no word, no comet that is different from those that were valid in Ukraine during the years 1999-2005. simply reproduced the standards that were valid for the period until the fall of 2005. So there's no innovation here and there's no reason to reconsider any of these proposals. This can be done if you conceptually change all approaches. So I ask you to support this bill as a whole so that the service can work the following year because it is no longer even present in the State Budget project as a budget manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Is there a denial? Okay. Then we'll do it differently. I'm voting on a proposal to have the profile committee prepare the bill for second reading in a week. In seven days, we will consider it in a second reading. She's on her way. The Supreme Council has the right to reduce 14 days to 7. Please, I'm voting on this proposal, I'm putting it to a vote. This is in line with the Rules. Seven days from now, let's bring it up. Vote. [[11:48:00]] For-59 Not accepted. So the bill will be considered in 14 days. The draft Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 2477. Reported the head of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information to Konovalov Igor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u92	Dear Head, distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft Ukrainian Law “On the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine” is presented for your consideration. The bill is drafted in accordance with article 10, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information. Under the law, this service is formed, not by military formation, but by the numbers and appropriate units of the Ukrainian security service. At the present time, most of the units listed are military personnel serving under the military statutes and other legislation on the conduct of military service. In their transition to the State Service, Special Liaison and Protection of Information, Ukraine, of January 1, 2007, will lose the status of military personnel and will be assigned to the rank of military and chief of staff. A bill proposed for your consideration that approves the disciplinary statute of the State Service has been developed with a view to settling the service relationship that will arise between the members of the military and the primary staff since 1 January 2007. The disciplinary charter proposed for approval determines the essence of service discipline, the responsibilities of the members of the military and the superiors of the public service, the special relationship and the protection of information regarding its observance, the type of encouragement and discipline, the order and rights of the superiors regarding their application, and the manner in which disciplinary charges are brought. During the drafting of the bill, the provisions of military statutes, disciplinary statutes, other central executive bodies were also taken into account, which included the services of a person of special rank, such as internal affairs, civil protection, the Customs Service, as well as the experience gained with the development of the special composition, observations and suggestions of interested authorities. The implementation of this act does not require any additional expenditure on the State budget. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law “On the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information”, will allow the issue of compliance with the order of relations and service discipline of members of the military and principal staff of the State Department to be addressed with a view to the proper performance of the tasks assigned to them. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u93	Thank you. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. From the National Security and Defence Committee, the head of the Trelyaków subcommittee, Alexander Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u94	The Honourable Chief, Honorary Colleagues were known to have passed the Ukrainian Law on 23 February 2006 “On the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine”. According to the Constitution, the legal basis for the organization of this service is defined. In accordance with article 10, paragraph 6, of this Law, a draft disciplinary statute of the State Information Service has been developed that we are considering today. This bill was supported by a committee. As we know, the military can't live without a charter, it's in their blood. Therefore, a request to support this bill is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u95	Thank you. It must have been the shortest report we've had in this vocation. Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Is that clear? Okay. No one complains that you're being heard illegally? Okay. Then I put it to a vote, can we take it as a law? What does the committee think, no objection to anyone? I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the Law “On the Disciplinary Statute of the State.” No, no, you can't do this without Easy. Give him your word. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block." Maybe you wanted to be without me, but people chose me, so you have to put up with it. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u97	We were also not cast down here from heaven.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u98	You don't know who. About the bill that we're discussing. In principle, I do not object to the adoption of this disciplinary statute. Right, Mr. Trelyakow said that if there were military personnel there, they should be governed by the statute. But I'm drawing the attention of my colleagues to the comments of the experts who made a statement to this bill. The thing is, is there's too much rights in the bosses that are meant to be? The officials of this service, who may violate the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who are in the military service in this institution, the State Service for Special Liaison, and the Expert Office, have requested that these observations be taken into account so that the rules laid down in the statute do not conflict with constitutional standards that protect citizens ’ rights. That's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u99	Thank you. But I have before me the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which does not say that there is a violation of constitutional rights. It says that yes, some chief may not look at it that way or that way, but the Constitution is not mentioned here. Let's adopt this law, and then let's put Easy there in the service to get order. I look forward to the adoption of special communications and information protection for Ukraine as a whole of the Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service. Please vote. Oleg, vote. [[11:55:04]] For 418 The law is passed. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm very sorry, but part of the room didn't get it. By 2477 Law on Voting, by Procedure. We ask very much again to put the vote on. I'm sorry, 2565 law. Part of the room does not understand how it feels about voting, and we ask that we go back to voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I remind you that in accordance with Article 111 of the Rules, by ad hoc means, we have the right to reduce the time when proposals are made for second reading. And I made an offer not to take 14 days, because we're not going to make it, because we're going to be in the new financial year. To cut it down to seven days next week, and that makes sense. We don't get it. Therefore, who in favour of returning to the vote of this motion, please vote. [[11:56:36]] For 235 We're back. I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for submitting proposals to Bill No. 2565 to seven days and to consider it in a second reading in the next plenary week. Please vote on this proposal. [[11:57:07]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in three minutes, we may not be able to consider another bill, so a recess is announced by 12.30.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u102	I'm asking the deputies to take their seats. We're moving on. A draft Law on the Restructuring of Debt for Services in Maintenance of Buildings and Buildings and Instigation Areas and Municipal Services is under consideration, which was established on December 1, 2006. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Orlov Anatoly Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! For the consideration of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law on the restructuring of housing debt, housing and utilities, gas consumption and electricity was introduced. The bill is being introduced to address two main issues. First. This will allow more and more under-protected populations to benefit from housing subsidies in connection with the rise in housing and utility tariffs. It's different. Improve the financial and economic situation of residential-communal enterprises. Since the beginning of 2006, housing and utilities have seen a significant deterioration in the financial and economic situation of enterprises, which is characterized by a sharp increase in losses, an increase in receivables and creditors' debt, such as energy debt. In residential households, due to the inadequacy of established tariffs, economic-based losses amount to nearly 1.4 billion dollars, twice as much as in the corresponding period of last year. The receivable is 7.4 billion dollars, and the loan is 8 billion dollars. The level of pay has deteriorated and the debt of water and water companies for electricity and gas consumption has increased. Since the beginning of the year, the industry’s debt for electricity consumption has been 2.2 billion. Infants, for natural gas 1.6 billion That's right. One of the factors that significantly complicates the financial situation of residential-communal enterprises is the debt of consumers for housing services received and, as a result, the availability of large amounts of debt from energy undertakings. According to the State Department, the debt of the population from the abbey of residential services increased by 72.1 million in 2006. The amount of money or 1.2 percent is 6.2 billion. Money, including businesses, that are owned by utilities of 4.8 billion. That's right. During the Ukrainian Housing Debt Restructuring Act, housing services, gas consumption and electricity were paid to more than 1.8 million people on 1 July 2003. contracts for the repayment of the restructuring of the debt. The amount at which contracts are made in part of payments for the repayment of restructuring debt amounts to more than one billion dollars. The amount of payments from the rescheduled debt is about 800 million. That's right. The bill extended the period of restructuring of the population debt to residential and utility enterprises for consumption of services. The adoption of the bill would prevent an increase in the number of non-payments from the eligible categories of citizens. I would also like to report that the government, with a view to avoiding social tensions in society, has decided to improve the social protection mechanism for housing subsidies to citizens by simplifying its procedure. And I want to remind you that this law only changes the term. Earlier in 2003, such an adopted law was now proposed to be adopted with an increase in debt, that is, on December 1, 2006. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u104	The law is short. Is there a question before.? Is it? Please sign in. Five minutes. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u106	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u107	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. We understand this bill because there really is a big problem. But I'd like to know more. This bill refers to an extension of the period, that is, we are today. Returns, we introduce a restructuring system on those dogs that emerged in 2005, in 2006, and this does not refer to the procedure itself. We know that today's complex procedure is the citizens' appeal for restructuring. Does the Government intend to change the decision-making system itself and the citizens'system? Will this system be simplified?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u108	There is already a simplification of this system. As I said, a decision has already been taken by Kabmin to simplify the grant procedure. And these are also simplified, so come to the CHEK, the CHEK has your debt, you get one letter, and you make a restructuring. There's a restructuring that's generally done by how much a man has, every man owes. There is now no complication of this procedure and the situation of getting this and the restructuring itself has already been developed and there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u109	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u110	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The Housing Debt Restructuring Act has been in effect since July 2003. Today you're offering to accept again, to continue this term, but still you're not giving any information about how much people started paying, that is, whether this debt is being repaid? Because we're not just passing these laws so people don't pay, we're giving them the opportunity to pay for it in time. And it's also a very important question about social groups that don't pay. Because pensioners who live on one pension go and pay, and those who buy hundreds of meters of apartments in the center of the city somewhere else, that's exactly what they don't pay. I mean, for whom do we do this: for those who can't pay, or, as you said, can they pay, but they don't pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u111	This law was passed in 2003, and there was a position for it -- order, that is, a defined, debt restructuring. Over the past few years, contracts of 1.8 million have been entered into on July 1, 2003, as I said. Of this billion, 800 million were paid off. The debt has now increased to five billion. And we're offering 12 months, which is five years, if each year is more or less going to pay at least a billion, a little less, that's going to be good, and that, we think, is going to be this debt restructuring that also helps people to calculate.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u112	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u113	Dear reporter. Vladimir Yavorowski. Of course, the purpose of this bill is noble and humane to help the poor restructure their debt. Well, that's the first time. And secondly, after raising tariffs, I think we're going to have to restructure something every week, because people's payability is going to keep falling. Yesterday TV showed how a man bought a new Mercedes, and this Mercedes was transported to a fine shop because the same man owed three thousand dollars in debt for utilities. I have a question: in order for us to have a clear vote on this issue, we should actually have a register of the poor specifically in Ukraine, then we could also solve the issues by raising tariffs. To whom they may not be promoted, to whom they may not be promoted. Today we will vote in blindness, and so will I. Really, I have the right to think that the poor people who count a penny in there pay for it all, and those who have big money don't pay for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u114	Explain to Vladimir Aleksandrovitch what should he do?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u115	Well, we think, but the person who has Mercedes doesn't have to restructure the debt because it doesn't use these benefits, it doesn't use it. And those people who, for one reason or another, have debt, we're giving them the opportunity to restructure this debt. And every year she's going to pay the current payments and some of these restructurings.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u116	One last question, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u117	Please give my word to my colleague, National Deputy Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u118	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u119	Thank you. The honourable presiding, the honourable present, well, with regard to the characteristics of this Law at all, I will try to speak out of the rostrum when I take the position of the faction, and now I have two questions for the honourable first deputy. Please tell me, for the first time, that's the main purpose of this law. I want to tell you that you're going to make people's lives better today, and I want to tell you, they're paying very carefully on these tariffs. And you know that the level of payments today is 98%. Is that who you want to make life better? And secondly, you're saying that you're helping businesses that no one is restructuring their debt. Are you making their lives better? This bill is ridiculous, has not been discussed on the committee, and is therefore clearly not to be supported at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u120	Well, secondly, on your question, with the committee, we found out these questions, but on the first question, this restructuring doesn't apply to enterprises. When I said that it improves the condition of thermal enterprises, for example, I mean that the population with them will be accounted for not only for current calculations but also for debts. This will improve the state of the businesses that provide residential services.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich of the committee is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, colleague Kucherenko is right, and there was no special committee meeting on this issue. But since the 12th, we have 14 members of the committee, and we've been communicating with 12 because it's a really important question, we're going to communicate, we're going to talk, we're going to talk. Of the 12 members of the committee with whom this was discussed, 11 members of the committee supported the draft ruling, one – Alexy Kucherenko – clearly denies. On that basis, I have the right to say that I am speaking from the committee. Now the point of view of the committee on this point. First of all, it's really a fire and poorly worked law. Secondly, really, there's no justification here, and we don't know exactly, and it's not reported on the Supreme Council exactly what consequences we're going to have for our businesses. There are other shortcomings in this draft regulation. The only thing I can tell you, and why we have made a positive decision to make, and we ask you to take on the first reading, is that it is really a law that we need to protect our people. That's the only argument. But for the second reading, we need Minbud or the Cabinet of Ministers to submit financial and economic justifications. The numbers and I, I'm members of the committee, but they don't own the hall. And that's why we need each of the deputies to have this number and have a justification, as it would specifically say on. Secondly, the fear that the Mercedes lords will receive these benefits is unfounded, because there is a mechanism, and if this mechanism is implemented, only those people who really cannot pay housing services on time will receive this assistance. Third. What is positive about this? You and I will then be able to demand that the first three or four months of payments fall, with 94 percent that are now, somewhere, in our calculations, 86-87. but then, if we continue to stabilize, if the previous law does have a foam position, we will still equalize these payments. Here are the basic arguments that speak for the benefit of this law. So I ask that we adopt this law in the first reading. The government was assigned to work on and provide official information on payments made after the previous restructuring. Anatoly Alexiyovich called these figures, but we haven't officially received them. What will be the consequences for residential utilities so that we don't plant them? And if these effects are really negative, you just have to solve the question of restructuring the debt of businesses. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u123	Thank you. There's a question to the reporter, can I see? Sign up, please, who wants to ask a question, five minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u124	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Yuri Sergiyovich, if I succeed, I will try to speak with you today. The point is, I'm the author of this bill in 2003 on the restructuring of population debt for residential services. And I want to tell you that he was very painful about this law. We've done it, I'm reminding the deputies of the fourth call, two vetoes. Because at first he sounded like a debt write-off. It was stupid. We then restructured. Please tell the MPs exactly what this is about. That's when we wrote it down. If, for example, a person has booked for five years, that is, restructuring is not cheating, it's stretching in time. And then again, the problem was that he hadn't paid off his debt yet, and he had to go after the grant. That is, to what extent this bill will help the least protected groups not to get nervous, sleep peacefully. Instead of waiting for the executioners and all kinds of intimidation, it is normal to pay as much as he can, as much as his purchasing power allows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u125	Thank you. I thought it would answer the reporter, answer that question. Dear colleagues, what's going on now? A man has accumulated debts on December 1st, and now the tariffs have risen. Now he has the right, thanks to this bill, he has the right to distribute his debt for 60 months, because we are prolonging that previous law in 2003 and in addition to the constant payments that are now there, one-sixty of his debt to pay each month, and that really gives a person the chance that they won't come to him to move out of the apartment and everything else. This is the only thing I can explain without knowing whether I've satisfied Jaroslav Mikhailovich or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u126	And it allows you to get a grant.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u127	Yeah, and it gives, yeah, and it gives him a grant after the restructuring contract. Thank you for your help, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u128	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please give the word to a colleague from the faction “Our Ukraine” Alexia Kucherenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u130	Thank you. Alexei Kucherenko, “Our Ukraine”, head of the Housing and Utilities Committee. The honourable Head of the Committee, my colleague Yuri Sergiyovich, the honourable chairman, the honourable present, I take it professionally that this bill is very harmful to the industry. Unfortunately, he's in the hall, I would like to stress again, without discussion on the committee. Regarding the laws that apply to the building industry, we usually discuss them on the committee. There's an exception. So I'm asking you not to go into politics and show people that we don't know what to do with the government, although I emphasize, as a member of the opposition faction, it's easier for me to support this populist bill right now, and I suggest that we postpone its consideration and listen, discuss this issue on the committee, and then go back to the debate in the room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u131	Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u132	I expressed my point of view and those 12 deputies. I'm also in opposition, and I'm not going to work, as I say, in that sense, to go any further. I'm in opposition, too, and I emphasize it, I'm in BUIT. But I think it's a useful bill and those 11 deputies of our committee who have been authorized to say the same. Tell me nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u133	Okay, please, let's have a professional discussion right now, because you can never complain about transitions and all that. Please, Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u134	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u135	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u136	Dear colleague of mine! Let me quote my colleague, Serbin, on fresh leads. He said this, quote: “This law will not apply to those who have Mercedes, it will apply only to those who cannot pay.” End of quote. Kucherenko just told a colleague that this law is harmful to the industry. I am one of those who would seek a balance between harm to the industry and harm to our electorate, to the people. Tell me, which expert will determine who can pay and who can't pay? Is there such a person? There's an organ that clearly says that this one can't pay. And then we vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u137	Yes, there is a special calculation, and I quote you, Reverend Vladimir Alexanderovich, quote paragraph, article of the Second Law of Ukraine, which was adopted then by colleague Suhi. Find out what's going on with the citizens. Provided that the income of citizens who have entered into debt restructuring contracts is not sufficient to fully repay the entire debt, the term of the contract continues until its full repayment. That is, before a person makes this agreement and forms this subsidy, it's his income test. Or he can pay. Of course, if a person lives only in black and buys that Mercedes in black, he can deceive the authorities that set it. And if he has a real record, he shows them before he makes the agreement, and he proves that he cannot repay that debt. It's written in the previous one, let's say, basically the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u138	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there anyone who would like to make a statement about this faction? Sign up. And you can write down who wants to say it. Please. Although it seems to me that the faction of experts can express itself and that would be enough, but nevertheless. 15 minutes, please. Arjewitin, from the faction “Our Ukraine”. Who will speak? Puppy, please. Puppy's out of town talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Honourable Chairman, Alexy Kucherenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Any bill that we're considering today that touches the housing-communal sphere is definitely a political and social component, and it's a professional one. So I'm going to try to get into my speech first and second, and ask you not to vote in favour of this bill. As for the political component, the faction and deputies of the faction “Our Ukraine” no less than all other deputies want to be loved by the people and want to care for the people. And you tell me, please, 95 percent of our people are neat after the restructuring of 2003 and they pay for residential services. 98 percent is the rate of collection of payments. It is completely unclear why on December 1st we give them the signal “No pay, no pay, no pay, no pay, no pay. ” This means that in September, October, November, we are failing payments, and then we are going out for completely incomprehensible restructuring without considering what the previous one has led to. Next. Dear friends, the other side. It says that we will improve the situation of businesses. No one is restructuring the debt owed to our enterprises to NAC “Naftogaz”, in front of the energy industry. Please ask these companies. I was surprised by the position of the first deputy minister who headed a powerful enterprise in Donetsk. You don't get paid, but you don't get restructured by your debt, is that patriotism in the field? I also want to go to people who can hear us and who are paying us very well today and who are going to continue, I'm sure, to pay for housing services, to the guards, to the army of one million people working in this area who are working in very difficult conditions today. This bill is directed against you, it's populist, and it's exactly that kind of character to play with a certain category of population that the state and we will protect with you. That's why the position of our Ukraine is that we have to first figure out how to regulate these tariffs. We see today that we have the President's tariffs, the government, the Prime Minister, the deputy of the Supreme Council, the deputy of the local councils. This is where the “partner” is trapped, just in the creation of an independent regulator that will be involved in tariff policy. So once again, I ask you not to politicize this issue and translate it into a professional plane, listen to this question at a committee meeting, and then we will give you a professional position and we will make a professional decision with you in the first place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u140	Thank you. It's a faction circle, isn't it? Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words and give my word to my colleague, Deputy Sukh. And remind my colleague who just spoke. Why did this national MP not protect people so much when in previous years we wrote down debts to utilities? In this connection, the budget and the people did not get the tax money that the housing system was supposed to pay? So today, we are making a balanced decision that allows us to reach out to the people, not the mythical sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u142	Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, this is exactly the bill where politics is completely inappropriate and absolutely unnecessary. Moreover, I feel that it is not right in this session room to drink my office there on today’s committees or in a former life to work in certain positions. Let me remind you that the draft in 2003 was an extremely difficult road, and we tried to overcome the two vetoes and eventually became a restructuring. Why? But because then the rise in tariffs in 2001 led to a sharp drop in the rate of payments. People just couldn't pay. Then. Life situations vary. Someone got sick, some old man, grandma spent all that money on all the “cerebalizines. ” And all of a sudden, it comes from JECK's paper that the debt of 3-4 thousand that they're going to bring to trial is something like that. Remember, we've adopted this bill to remove the psychological burden from people. Did it give people a plus? Dallo. Did it add up to housing and utilities, Alexy Yuriovich? Dallo. Because out of those little "trucks," those little payments came out. What's better? Zero? Stop at all so they don't pay? Or pay as much as they can. Why 20 percent? Remember this law, 25, 20 or 15. Because there's a decree for the Desert Woman in 1998, Decree 1154. And this decree was duplicated in the 2003 Law. What happened now? Now the increase in tariffs has led people, by restructuring all their debts at the same price, to have to make one call. But no one is restructuring them if we don't make this decision at the legislative level. What our people are asking now, the same payers, the same honest and conscientious. They ask one thing: Give us the opportunity to obtain subsidies with debts. Because we don't really have them, we're shutting them down, we've restructured them, we're restructuring them because of our ability to restructure them and we're paying them. I find the voices false in this room that it is against some conscientious payer. Vladimir Aleksandrovich here gave the correct example of this Mercedes. But he's not 3,000, he's got 12,000 debts. In doing so, the wife explained: The dressers were coming, she was just throwing them into the garbage disposal. Here's what we'd like to do, and I'm perfectly comfortable with that, with those who have trading points in the markets, and they're considered unemployed; with those who have shadow incomes rather than pay. And the pensioners are just joining a cohort of the most conscientious payers. That's why we have to support this bill, because of the little lunches, these little cousins make up a big river. It's the only way we're going to expand the housing-communal payer base, only in this way will we be able to improve the financial situation of the housing-communal economy and improve the social status, psychological, if you will, of our elderly, who are in a very difficult situation today. This bill must be supported with certainty.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u144	Alexandrovska instead of Zybenko is speaking from the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u145	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky. Dear colleagues and Ukrainian citizens who listen to or watch a broadcast from the Upper Rada Hall! I want to emphasize that we really need this law. I want to explain why he's needed today and why he showed up. And what I'm going to say is, I don't really like the fact that this is the definition of the time limit on which debt is recorded, i.e. the debt that arose as at 1 December 2006. Why people have extra debts, we know you. The strange, mildly speaking, policies pursued by the Government of Timoshenko and continued to be carried out by Ehanurov have led to increased gas prices, increased tariffs, and today new debts have accumulated among people with whom they cannot go and form subsidies, because they cannot be accounted for because they have small incomes and small wages. That's why the law is needed. But I would even recommend that the Government consider the following. Unfortunately, you and I already know that people's incomes are low. There's a question. A pensioner, 400 greaves of pension, goes to form a subsidy and has accumulated debts. She signs the contract of restructuring and from her income, and from her pension, 20 per cent are kept every month. And you know what 400 bracelets are, 20 percent already pay off the debt. It must pay 15 per cent of its income, for example from its utility current payments. A total of 35 per cent of the income of the pensioner or pensioner is already spending on utilities. Yeah, to some extent, a man is responsible for what he owes. But you know the circumstances today, how expensive treatment today is, how expensive food is today. The question therefore arises: It is likely that this plan should be reduced by a monthly percentage of the repayment of debts because 20 per cent for the pensioner plus 15 current is a third of the pension, a third of the 400 bracelets! What's there to live for? What's her name? Therefore, it may be necessary to apply for a minimum of living. The possible retentions of these pensions, precisely from pensions, must ensure that a person enjoys a normal life, a normal diet. So I ask you, this law needs to be supported in the first reading in this form, and the Government in its legislation needs to really think about how much you can keep with a person in debt repayment so that he can still keep such an amount so that he can live normally, eat normally, so that he doesn't throw himself into another corner, again, let alone deny himself something, including he doesn't stop paying for utility payments. The law we need, the first reading we need to adopt, it will support our people, it's not populist and, of course, it will help the housing and utilities, because the payments will go. And we need to think about it, however, that the Government should be more able to finance directly subsidies to housing and utilities in order to curb the growth of tariffs. And it must be a special government program, which insists on the faction of communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u146	Thank you. Please make this subject very clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u147	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, dear colleagues, I think there is clarity on this subject without me. Clearly, it's dark. Since Mr. Orlov, who reported this bill from the government, was unable to answer our question: Who actually paid these debts after the law was passed in 2003? Dry, don't bother! So we've heard a figure that's made contracts for billions of dollars, paid 800 million dollars, but for social groups. Well, we all know that those people who are underfunded are primarily paying for all the utilities because they're afraid that tomorrow they're going to come and take their property and move them out of their apartment. It's thanks to the Timoshenko Block and Parliament, if they support our initiative, and we're going to consider a bill this week that's going to ban people from housing in the case of municipal debt, they're going to get confidence. Today, the poor have no such confidence. That's why they pay. They don't pay the rich. And the deputy minister thus admitted, standing in this rostrum, take the transcript and read it. He who has the opportunity to pay does not pay. So we're going to adopt this bill so that those people who don't have the ability to pay as a result of the totally idiotic decisions of the Kyiv City Authority to raise unwarranted tariffs, as a result of other similar decisions in other regions, will be able to pay the debts they have incurred in time. But, on the other hand, this right should be given to those who cannot pay, not to those who can pay and exercise that right. That is, this must be determined by these nuances. That is why this bill was to be carefully considered and discussed on the committee. Sadly, that did not happen. According to the committee’s report, by telephone polling, they found out the position of committee members. So, as a member of the Standing Committee, I would like to remind you that there is a law on the Committees of the Supreme Council that provides that all decisions of the Committee shall be taken at the meeting of the Committee after a discussion by a vote. There is no such form of committee work by telephone! Because this bill is of great social importance, and it had to be discussed widely, publicly. Instead, it was not made, which caused the doubts and reactions that we see in the hall today. Therefore, I propose that this bill be sent for careful work, that all these questions be clarified, and that only those who do not have the opportunity to pay for it are allowed to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u148	The word has a national MP from “Our Ukraine” Gunner Evgen Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I want to testify that this law, adopted in 2003, was very important. He really helped our people not to cut off their gas, electricity, or drive them out of their apartment. But I want to go back to the situation in 2003, when the budget was indebted to pay-out budgeters, there was a total population debt caused by the Cuchma rule for decades. Now Yuri Sergiyovich gave the figure: 95 percent of the payment of utilities. That is, there is no need to say that the governments of Timoshenko and Yehanurov caused a crisis. 95 percent is a normal payment. Another point is that of those five percent, some may not be able to obtain a grant. And this is a matter to be settled. As the government came to grips with this question, it proposes to reinstate the law in 2003. Well, I want to remind this government's program: improving your life today. Such a government proposal suggests that the government has absolutely refused to implement this program and simply, with tariff growth in mind, wants to somehow save part of the population from this increase in tariffs. But it was completely unprofessional. First of all, what Yuri Sergiyovich read relates to the ability of people to pay debts, but it does not apply to the limitation of people rich who have both “mersedes” and large houses, that they will not be able to restructure this debt. So there's no such safety net in the proposed law, and we could assume that in the first reading, if this law were to be developed by an MP, but it was developing a government apparatus that has appropriate professional skills. I would like to remind you that from residential and other enterprises after the introduction of that law in 2003 the debt was recorded at the expense of Naftogaz. There's no such reserve right now. If we apply it, we're going to make it eventually bankrupt and question our gas transport system. Therefore, if we approach this bill professionally, we should assign the government to resolve these questions. I mean, make sure: how and who can use this debt restructuring to really get the population that needs it, not too rich that they're going to abuse it. And secondly, to solve the question, what are they going to do, how are they going to keep from bankruptcy housing-communal enterprises? There's no such thing in this project. But the bill is of social importance. Indeed, it is a safety net for the population, the poor population, and what this government will do in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u150	Thanks for sharing in the discussion, we finished it. Addictions are understandable, for there is a subject that applies to all, so it is clear that it needs to be addressed. I want to talk about some of the nuances in the discussion. We need to conclude that, in the fall, municipal payments have started to increase, subsidies have not been properly formed, and not on the terms and conditions, debts are increasing, and it is natural to react to this situation, however, by continuing the practice that we have been using for three years. Thus, its effectiveness is proved, indeed, by life. And you don't have to rephrase here: who does that apply? General statistics show the effectiveness of this law. It is also clear that this Law does not apply in any way to rich people. Once again, this Law applies, indeed, to those who need to: either the debt of spending, restructuring, or those who have little income, not the rich. I would ask that we mean that. Therefore, this law needs to be adopted in real time, because the debt is now rising. I mean, it needs to be taken now. And finally, I do, subduing, probably the summation, have to say, the great benefit of today's anti-crisis coalition, that the government is only working for four months. You can't hang all the dogs on him, 'cause it's not been long. And all these things have accumulated before. There is no need to point to previous governments, but there is no need to blame the government today. There is a need to adopt this law in the first reading, then refine it, and bring it to the consideration of the Supreme Council. With regard to the protection of utilities, come on, prepare a draft law on this subject, see how you can make a decision there. But as for citizens today, users of utilities, let's take this step. I'm voting on the draft law in the first reading. [[13:16:07]] For 347 Decision taken, thank you. The factions? Please. “Regions” - 181, “Block of Timoshenko” – 87, “Our Ukraine” – 23, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. From the procedure? Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u151	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The result of the vote, when virtually all the factions of the majority and the minority came from the interests of the State and the Ukrainian people, supported the bill in the first reading, shows that, indeed, the MPs think and put the interests of the country and the people first. Sadly, however, time is said to be unbearable, and it would be very desirable for the bill to be adopted in a second reading to take effect as soon as possible. Requesting that the bill be put to a second reading vote and accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u152	In view of the fact that there are many comments and, look, the deputy Lazko will make an offer, others have just said, it will have to be taken into account. Let's put it on Tuesday on the second reading. Let's ask the committee to look into it again. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u153	I understand it takes two weeks under the Rules. It's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u154	Let's vote for seven days. May I? For seven days, consider the second reading. I put this motion to the vote as a complement to the decision taken. [[13:18:02]] For 272 They support this wise offer. Thank you. Yuri Sergiyovich, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, you're still fighting there. Well, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u155	Dear colleagues. Alexandre Alexandrovich, this can be worked out in a week. Only we had an agreement with the government, and it was now for these reasons that they should be placed on the committee. And so that we can look at the second reading on Wednesday next week. And petitions to all the deputies, including Easy. Not just from the rostrum, if you have any comments, please write them in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u156	Not every MP can write down what he can say. So this situation should also be taken into account. Please. A draft law with the President's comments on amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine is under consideration. And Sergey Andryovich Romanyuk will report on this. Oh, I'm sorry, but here I have a note that will be reported instead by Deputy Minister of Economy Musin Ludmila. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u157	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. Let me remind you that, according to the criteria set out in article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine and the Cabinet Order of 1995, the status of mountain settlements has been granted to 711 administrative units. Among them, there are 215, Ivano-Frankivsky, 236, Lvivsky, 196, Chernivetsky, 64 locations. In all, there are 890 and a half thousand inhabitants. In 2005, measures to implement the provisions of article 3 of the law were funded at 138.4 million dollars, 27.7% more than planned. In 2006, more than $174.2 million is to be funded. The new law, in fact, with amendments to the Mountain Human Settlements Act, adopted repeatedly by the Supreme Council on April 4, amends the criteria for placing the population in the mountain category. This automatically leads to an increase in the number of such population sites and requires substantial funds from government and local budgets. Under the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economics, along with other central executive bodies, worked on a copy of the new law adopted by the Supreme Council, prepared conclusions that were supported and supplemented by the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The general conclusion is this. Ukraine's Act of 4 April 2006 amending the Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 April 2006, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine in view of the fact that its position, as well as the position of the final edition, is not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Budget Code and some other laws of Ukraine. The following are the reasons. First of all, the law provides for a change in the high criteria for placing the population in the mountain category, a reduction in the altitude from 400 to 350 meters above sea level. The point of the crotch is from 12 to 9. The estimate of this, the increase in this standard, the introduction of this standard will increase the total number of mountain settlements to about twice as many as 1,400 units. The population is also twice as many as two and a half million. And this will automatically increase expenditure from government and local budgets, too, almost twice. Because mountain status can get cities the population of which much more than any inhabited village-type spot. And according to the State Geodetics Service of Cartography and cadastre, according to the new height criteria, the mountain area will also be in the area of Winnické, Hmelnické, Ternopilé, central part of the Lviv region on the Donetsk Cross. So there's a significant increase in the number of these points. And this, accordingly, will increase the expenditure of the State budget and thus threaten the underfunding of other budgetary assignments, including the development of mountain settlements. Next question, next argument. The amendments to article 3, paragraph 1, of this law cannot be supported, since the allocation of expenditure between budgets of different levels is already provided for in the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and is accordingly implemented in accordance with articles 87, 91 of the Code of Budgets of the State’s Local Budgets. Chapter 1 of this article proposes that interest rates be compensated for by short and long - term loans to owners operating in mountain areas. Works and services related to construction, reconstruction of engineering infrastructure, construction of roads, power lines, gas pipelines, and other needs Along with the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Agriculture, article 13 already provides credit support for agricultural producers, by subsidising part of the interest on the use of loans. And there's the corresponding expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget Act 2006 through the loan-pending mechanism. Next is an addition to Article 3, Parts 2 and 4 on the setting of adjustment coefficients for the allocation of inter-budgetary transfers to inter-state and local budgets, specifically for the financing of socio-cultural areas. This addition is also unacceptable. Since the calculation algorithm between budget transfers is based on a formula developed in accordance with articles 97, 98 of the Budget Code. Approved by Kabminu. The formula is constantly improving and the formula already takes into account the coefficients for the additional expenditure of the corresponding budgets, as required by this basic law. Next, it was very important to mark new additions, according to this law. Budget allocations are to be made each year to compensate economic operators operating in mountain areas for the costs associated with the payment of wage allowances. This approach is not in line with article 4 of the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act, since the budget is a source of funds for the payment of work only to employees of institutions and organizations financed from the budget. Extra payments are offered to host entities. Further, the law suggests that the size of state pensions and all anticipated forms of state material assistance to citizens who have received the status of a mountain dweller also increases by 20 percent. But the size of the allowances should be at least 20 percent of the subsistence minimum. This will again require additional public budget expenditure, but the sources are not defined, and this will result in an unjustified increase in pensions for persons who have not even been entitled to a minimum pension. In addition, there is a 50 - percent reduction in tuition fees for students in state higher education institutions who are trained in contractual forms and who also have the status of a person living in a mountainous area. The granting of such benefits also does not conform to the constitutional principles of equal rights of citizens and to the inadmissibility of privileges or restrictions on residence. These are articles 21, 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Next. It is also proposed that this law be supplemented by article 7, which states that persons who do not live permanently in mountain areas but who have worked in them before, before receiving mountain status for at least 10 years, these people, if they receive a state pension accrued from a paid salary, are entitled to a recalculation of a pension from a specified salary increased by 20 percent. Once again, this situation does not correspond to the Constitution, and it is contrary to the basic principles of compulsory government pension insurance. Since only amounts of payments are taken into account for the calculation of pensions, which are actually calculated and paid for by insurance contributions to the Pension Fund. This will once again lead to an increase in government budget expenditure to be subsidized by the Pension Fund. That's how. And I would like to conclude that the final text, as a bill proposed by the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, foresees some change in the high criteria for the placement of the population from 400 to 350, rather than 375. And there are only two proposals from the President. The first is the setting up of state - budget payments for 50 percent of the price of the agricultural product. And secondly, it's about the admission of citizens who are granted the status of a person living in a mountain resort to higher education. Most of the President's proposals were not taken into account. In this regard, the bill is proposed to be rejected. And please note that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also considers it appropriate to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u158	Ludmila Abdrahmanovna touched all the president’s remarks in great detail, and I think it is clear. No objections? Have a seat, please. We're going to have Sergey Mikhajlovich's procedure, and he's easier to speak out because he's from the plains of Ukraine, there's no mountains in Mikolayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u159	Honourable Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 29 November, reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Change of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine, and identified the following. The committee acknowledged that the President's remarks were correct in that part that some of the provisions of the bill were indeed contrary to the laws of Ukraine on Higher Education, on Education, on State Support for Ukraine's Agriculture, and on the increase in Ukraine's budget. At the same time, given the depressive nature of mountain areas, the need to overcome socio-economic imbalances in their development, the need to develop social and productive infrastructure, the need to use natural resource and labour potentials rationally, the need to overcome poverty, the Committee considers it necessary to make some changes to the existing law. The proposals of the President of Ukraine are set out in four paragraphs and contain eight observations. On the basis of proposals made by the People’s Deputies, the Committee agreed to take into account three of the four proposals made by the President of Ukraine. In particular, the committee proposes to change the local height to 375 feet [375 m], not to 350 feet [350 m], as stipulated in the bill. A point has been deleted for the installation of state - budget payments to operators up to 50 percent of the price of agricultural products implemented. A point has also been removed regarding the benefits of entering colleges and paying higher scholarships to retirees from mountain areas. The term of validity of the law was transferred to January 1, 2008. At the same time, the committee disagreed with the President’s proposal to reject article 7 of the proposed law concerning the recalculation of pensions for persons not currently living in mountain areas but who had worked on them for at least 10 years in connection with a slight burden on the State budget on the adoption of the article. On the basis of the above, the Committee proposes to consider the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine, taking partial account of the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u160	I understood the proposal from the committee. Please take your seats. Are they willing to discuss the matter? This vote is coming. Excuse me. The President's proposals are being considered. In other words, the President made many points, but he did not make specific wording. The general wording that can be voted on is the need to reject the bill, which is the President's requirement. She's pretty reasoned. The ministry, reporting the President's proposals, confirmed that. I'm voting on this motion to reject this paragraph. There's a vote coming. [[13:33:42]] For 197 The decision is not made. Then I'm voting on a proposal to defeat the President's veto, please. [[13:34:10]] For-142 It's not enough. Please, by the factions. We need to see who the mountain dwellers were fighting for. Region Party 4, Block Timoshenko - 104, Our Ukraine - 12, SPI - 3, Communists - 17, non-fractional - 2. [[If you hadn't fought for the Kiev situation right now, everyone would probably have voted, too.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was the author of the law in 94th "On the Status of Mountain Populations" and I must say that this is an extremely important law, and we passed it correctly. But the arguments put forward today by the President are obviously sound. Soon, if we move in this way, all those living in Pechersk, in the Cave district of Kiev, should be referred to as mountain settlements. We have to think about what we're going to do. Thank you. The bill is being rejected. Please comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, as much as we'll ask you to read the Rules. There is no "new edition" in the new Rules. There is no "new edition" in the new Rules. There's an opportunity to send for work. That's the only way to go to a training committee. But we already have him, if I'm not mistaken, he's worked several times.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u162	The new edition is being voted on when we have taken into account a proposal from the President. Then, for example, we get 226 votes, it's really a new edition, when one and the other aren't taking it. Well, read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, in the past, when the previous Rules were in force, we had the opportunity and the practice that we used to change half words or words, dial 226 votes, and send them to the President. Under the current Rules, one or two of the President's proposals and at least 300 votes must be taken into account, and then it will be accepted. So be my guest. They put me up. How much? 170 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u164	Let's vote for the back-up. I'll put it to a vote. [[13:36:59]] For-195 195, the law is off-limits. Be careful how you cook. Wait, here's the motive. You've already spoken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage is being considered with proposals from the President. Reported by President Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u165	Dear Alexander Alexander! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The law under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. This law, which is being amended by the law under consideration, prohibits the privatization of cultural heritage monuments before the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves a census of cultural heritage that is not subject to privatization. It is according to the basic law that such a list should be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The law that came to be signed is complemented by provisions that do not extend this prohibition to one - house dwellings and apartments, rooms in apartments, and dwellings in multiple apartment buildings, which are cultural monuments and may be privatized in accordance with valid legislation, provided that a future owner is made with the appropriate cultural heritage authority of the previous contract for the future of the so - called security contract for the monument or part of it. It is also stated that a person who has acquired ownership of such objects as a result of privatization, as well as their subsequent alienation, is obliged to protect the cultural heritage or parts thereof in accordance with the law and security agreement. In this context, it should be noted that the law does not contain clear criteria for housing or non-residential buildings, i.e. cultural heritage can be privatised, to some extent not in line with the special privatisation issues of the Ukrainian Housing Act on Privatisation of the National Housing Fund, which is established to be non-privatization of the museum apartment, apartment buildings located in the areas of natural and biosphere reserves, national parks and so on. This will not only create difficulties in applying the laws and dealing with the privatization of the home, but can lead to abuse. Nor can it be borne in mind that, with such uncertainty about the housing and non-residential conditions that can be privatized after the validity of the law that has come into force, it is possible to privatize houses and non-residential premises, which will be subject to inclusion in the list of cultural heritage that are not subject to privatization, but may already be privatized at the time of approval. In doing so, the law under consideration does not clearly define the status of a previous contract for the future security agreement to be made in memory or part of it and, in particular, does not provide for responsibility for failure to comply with the obligation to protect the monument. That is, if the treaty is not executed, what are the legal consequences. Taking into account what has been said, the law of Ukraine, which is under consideration, is proposed by the President to reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u166	Are there any questions? You don't? Okay. Please sit down, Roman Mikhailovich. Javrovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich of the Committee
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality A little introduction to the subject. The Supreme Council of the previous calling had some warning, some warnings, and they were quite just, that a privatization bulldozer might also have unique monuments, state, historical, architectural, spiritual. This warning was quite clear because the scope of privatization was so wide that it could really get everything, perhaps the most valuable thing that is in the Ukrainian people and in the Ukrainian nation. This led to the adoption of a bill prohibiting the privatization of historical monuments. But I would like to point out that, along with this bill, a decision was taken that required the Cabinet of Ministers to submit a list of historical monuments that would not be privatized last year. Since the government had failed to do so, and today’s government — even not taking — has created certain scissors between the housing fund privatisation bill and the new bill that was adopted — prohibiting the privatization of historical monuments. It was this situation that called on the President, gave him arguments and his legal services to veto the bill. Let's just say today, even if we could overcome this veto, believe me, the benefits of overcoming this veto are not going to be there. At the same time, not to accept it again, just to reject it blindly -- it'll also be a great pity, and it'll open up again to privatize everything in order -- from churches to councils there, and so on, and so on and so forth. That's why the committee, looking for a way out of this situation, and the committee is represented by all the political forces, unanimously, in fact, taking ideologies into account, I would say, all of those amendments, and there are two major amendments made by the President, and we actually think that these amendments are very appropriate and the committee voted unanimously for them. Roman Zvaric here has explained many things from a legal point of view. I'm going to get into this, I'm not going to get into this, so I want to tell you what's going on. Well, let's say my previous constituency, this is a small town in western Ukraine, where, in fact, the entire historical center, well. The amazing, amazing value of it. But there are people living there, in these miserable houses, on these historical monuments, drying of the linen, all of it cracked and drenched. The Poles come and look at it all like it's a papaya. That's why today these people, if they can't privatize these rooms where they live, they can't get in there. Because, I think, people, they live there for a long time, let them privatize this room, bring it into order. But what I want to say is that our law has the norm: before we privatize, the person who privatizes this object with it is signed a treaty that will only use it within a framework that will not destroy the very value of an object. And I also remind you that it's only about the rooms, the individual ones, so to speak, the houses, we have, and, by the way, it's basically about those that have local meaning, not the whole republican meaning. Because I'm convinced that by voting for this, we're just going to do a good thing, and we're going to do something that can go into privatization and be looked after by the host within the framework, within the limits that will be set before it, that it can't change there, let's say, not a facade, not there, that is, a color and all that sort of thing, but it'll just put it in order, because the state can't do it today. And all those precious monuments that are truly state - owned should be left to us. And please, Adam Ivanovich, protocol absolute commission: the Cabinet of Ministers must present this list today. So, by the way, we're still here. We do not have a passport for all the valuable monuments that the Ukrainian people have. This should be done, for otherwise we will act blindly. Thank you, and I am convinced that we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u168	Thank you, thank you. As for the passport and so on, right, we've already talked about it and given it to you. That's a perfectly good idea. So, dear fellows, we will vote. Sulkowski, are you already representing the President here? Well, if you will, I'll give you my word. We have a proposal, the President's motion to reject the bill will be the first to vote. I'd like to make a statement. About the deviation. [[13:47:00]] For-31 No decision taken. Because, honourable colleagues, we can't look separately at the President's proposal, because he's proposing to reject the law as a whole. He's making remarks, but he's proposing a rejection, so we need to vote on the proposal to break the veto. Please vote. [[13:47:40]] For the 17th. Dear Volodymira Alexandrovich and colleague, there can be no new edition, I explain according to the Rules, because the law is proposed to be completely rejected. Decline at all. So there's a third option. Who's in charge of law enforcement for committee work? And then there'll be a new edition after you work out. Vote. [[13:48:18]] For 389 Copy that. It doesn't take up to seven days, because it's just a committee working here without our rights with you, it's just a committee's will. You don't have to. Next week, let's give, let's look at it in a new edition. The Ukrainian Act on Volunteering with Presidential Proposals, Registration No. 0807, is under consideration. Reported by President Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Prepare Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u169	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The Act on the Voluntary Movement, adopted on 23 February this year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine, as its constituent positions do not comply with internationally recognized principles of the volunteer movement. The implementation of the law does not ensure the development of Ukrainian volunteering as an important factor in the formation of civil society and the social state, but can lead to additional obstacles to such activities. According to the President, the main conceptual flaw in the law is that. That it makes it impossible for voluntary services to be provided to those public and charitable organizations that are already working in this area, and to those who are more than 30,000, such public organizations, because by law such services can be monopolized only by specially created volunteer organizations registered under this law. The law does not take into account the legislative regulation of the activities of public charities, the long - standing experience of the active work of such organizations in providing services on a voluntary basis. In numerous UN documents and other international organizations, in particular the Universal Declaration on Volunteering, which was adopted at the 16th World Volunteers Conference, held in 2001, I stress the responsibility of States for promoting development and supporting volunteerism and, at the same time, the need to minimize the State's involvement in volunteering, I place a particular emphasis on this. The law under consideration not only formally proclaims it, it does not. only formally announced, but the real mechanisms of State support for voluntary social activities of citizens are not defined. Instead, a complex and even rigid mechanism of government regulation in the area of volunteering is introduced, and a special central authority of executive authority is formally defined in the field of volunteering, which is given broad powers, up to volunteer leadership, administrative intervention, and so forth. At the same time, the law provides for the existence of a coordinating council on the development and support of volunteering, which should be composed primarily of representatives of government authorities and local governments, which is article 19 of the law. In doing so, even in general, its authority is not defined by law. Of course, this, in the President's view, creates conditions for practically unlimited interference by the state with volunteer organizations, which in itself would be contrary to the above-mentioned general declaration. The law introduces a complex procedure for a natural person’s right to volunteer. The law does not provide adequate safeguards to protect the interests of volunteers and volunteers themselves. The mentioned and other errors of the law have caused some 100 known U.S. and local public, charitable and other organizations to appeal to the President of Ukraine to prevent the introduction of this law. In view of the President's proposal to reject the Law on Volunteering, but to this end, he also stresses the need to facilitate preparations for the participation of volunteers and other public charitable organizations in the drafting of a new law that would ensure the creation of the necessary legal and other conditions for the development of the volunteer movement in Ukraine, but in accordance with the above-mentioned general declaration on volunteer movements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u170	Thank you. Is there a question? Sulkowski, please and Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u171	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Finally, although not a representative of the President, I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u172	But you have the opportunity to represent the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u173	You know the hall will determine this project of this proposal, Mr. Roman Mihajlovich, but I would like to refer to voters from Western Ukraine in areas such as Ivano-Frankovščina, Lvivščina, Ternopolščina and our Ukraine when those regions supported the President in the elections. And when today's problems that have mountain populations, and today the President with “Our Ukraine” has completely turned down – it says that these voters are left alone with their problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u174	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, I emphasize, we need to talk on the subject. Yes, please, Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u175	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I would like to express the position of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons with regard to this law. Unlike the President, I think that's the law that's needed, because there's a volunteer movement today. The other thing that started with this bill was that I didn't understand it, for example, that I thought the law was designed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which works more with veterans and veterans than Minust. But it happened that Minust. The same thing, I think the pension committee should be accompanied by this law, not by a youth policy committee. In fact, today there's a volunteer movement, and he needs help, and this law needs, and another thing that it has some flaws, but that doesn't mean that it needs to be undone as such. I'm going to propose, after all, to ask my colleagues to support, let even commission the committee to work out this law, but keep it, because there's actually a volunteer movement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Peter, in particular to you, I would like to point out that the President fully understands the proposal that this area of activity should be regulated. But once again, the President points out that this should be done in accordance with the standards that have already been adopted around the world. And these standards are guided by one general principle: as little State intervention as possible in the activities of such volunteer organizations. Instead, of course, it is necessary to make clear that the consequences of a legal and other nature may arise if such volunteer organizations or individual volunteers harm the individual or those categories of persons to whom they would help. These questions need to be settled. So the President's proposal is to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u177	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u178	In order to finalize this bill or replace this bill with another bill, but with the involvement of those organizations that are working in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u179	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u180	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I would like to point out to the Western voters that it is the position of the faction of the Party of Regions, which did not vote in favour of overcoming the President's veto to amend the Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements, which led to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u181	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues! I remind you once again that we need to talk on the subject. Sit down, Roman Mikhailovich. We have already completed the consideration of that law. Philindash Eugene, secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! Radios and TV sets! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism considered proposals submitted by the President of Ukraine to the Act on Volunteering, which was adopted by our colleagues on the fourth call on February 23, 2006. This law provided for the regulation of volunteer organizations, the relationship between volunteers and the definition of state policy in the field of volunteering. According to the President, the law cannot be signed; it is subject to rejection because its position is not in line with internationally recognized principles of volunteerism. And the implementation of the law does not ensure the formation of civil society and the social state, and it can lead to additional obstacles to such activity. In particular, the bill monopolizes the provision of volunteer services. That is, these services can be monopolized by other specially created volunteer organizations registered under this bill, this is article 15. And this does not make it impossible to provide volunteer services in the next tens of thousands, about 30 of them, public and charitable organizations of 30,000 who are already working in this area in Ukraine. In addition, articles of the bill envision the creation and existence of the Cabinet of the Coordinating Council on Development and Support for Volunteering. And this creates the conditions for the State to intervene in the activities of these organizations, although in fact its volunteering activities, volunteer organizations are exactly public organizations that must be independent of the state and any of its organs. And there are plenty of such differences in the Law. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office also considers it appropriate to support the President's proposals. In view of the above, the committee decided at its meeting to invite the Supreme Council to accept the President's proposals and to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council of 23 February 2006 on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Volunteering. By the way, we had already had a negative precedent when we tried to monopolize the youth movement, including some associations that were preferred by the state. This has done nothing good, and this practice has finally been canceled. I would also like to inform the people's deputies that the committee has set itself a task, along with the Ministry of Justice, to develop a more perfect bill on the legislative provision of volunteering. Because, of course, it requires a legislative settlement, simply by another Law that would be more appropriate to the substance of this activity. And this bill will be drafted, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, as well as by volunteer organizations and their associations. Please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u183	Thank you. Have a seat. So, dear fellows, I continue for 15 minutes. The idea that proposals by a more loyal president coincide with the committee’s proposals. I am voting on these motions to reject the Ukrainian Act on Volunteering. Registration No. 0807. [[14:01:48]] For 367 Decision taken. The law is rejected. We are now approaching a review of a law that has already been finalized with the President's proposals. I'll continue for 15 minutes. You were volunteering. The Ukrainian Act "On the Universal Programme for Agricultural Production in the Territory which was Radioactively Contaminated by the Chernobyl Disaster 2007-2016", registration number 0839. Member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Kravtsov Aleksand Olegovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u184	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Alexander Kraovtsov. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The problems associated with the Chernobyl disaster have always been, are and will be painful to our society. Addressing these problems is the responsibility of all branches of power to the people. For this purpose, there are 19 programmes in place in Ukraine. The need for funds for 1 year is more than 30 billion dollars. It is clear that it is not possible to fully implement all approved programmes. The programmes overlap in part, the calculation and justification of funds are outdated, and the efficiency of public money is analysed formally and often unscheduled. There are programmes adopted in the wave of election campaigns when populism has reached its climax. Therefore, the problems related to the impact of the accident on the CAEC are not only being resolved but are increasing. I do not deny that it is above all important for the State to have such a programme, but provided it ensures the production of radiologically safe products and economic activities in contaminated territories. In the same program, there are negatives that I want to draw your attention to, respected colleagues. The most important is the low-quality level of preparation of the draft law that we are considering. The programme does not include calculations of expected results, performance calculations. The justifications made two years ago have partially lost their relevance and are no longer in line with the specific situation on the ground. During this time, agro-technical, agro-chemical activities have been carried out in the contaminated territories, which, like soil erosion, deforestation, hydro-technical changes, have changed the environmental situation. Therefore, in the proposed bill, the amount for the programme is 1 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2016. shall be adjusted accordingly. The programme does not address the environmental, social and economic dimensions of radioactive pollution of forests, water facilities, countermeasures that need to be implemented on private sector land. The programme does not take into account the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the State-wide programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 2006-2010, adopted in March of this year. It does not take into account the budgetary funding provided for in the State budget for the relevant programmes of the CDM and the Minagroprom. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management considered, at its meeting, the revised Ukrainian Law on State-wide Agricultural Production Programme in the area affected by Radioactive Pollution from the Chernobyl Disaster 2007-2016, with proposals by the President of Ukraine and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the first to reject the Ukrainian Act, the second to reject the issue of environmentally sound living conditions in areas contaminated by the Chernobyl disaster, to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Cabinet of Ministers develop and submit a draft of the relevant national programme for consideration by the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u185	Yes, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I remind you once again that right now we are looking at this case that we talked about in previous bills -- that we can go to work. The committee has drafted a bill and brought it to work on its own that it agrees with the President's previous point of view. That's one thing. The other one. But here is a comparative table where the new proposals by the deputies are taken into account and, as it were, essentially put out this bill in the new edition. So first, I'm putting forward a proposal for a professional committee that is consistent with the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Agricultural Production in the area that has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, registration number 0839. [[14:07:25]] For 267 The decision is taken, i.e. the bill is rejected, and we're going to the Cabinet of Ministers what our colleague spoke on behalf of the committee about having them submit a new program on this issue. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is under consideration. Deputy Finance Minister Kravec Andry Mikolaiovich. Registration number 0043. Please. Maybe without a report? Will there be questions? Any questions? Write down who wants to ask. Yeah, let's take three minutes. Sulkowski. I did it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u186	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. So I think we're going to support this law, but to the previous one, Adam Ivanovich, we've just voted, we're extremely also from the Chernobyl territory that's been exposed to radioactive pollution, and I want to say that in no way can we put this issue aside painfully for Western Ukraine, where for the most part today there are a lot of people suffering from large amounts of diseases, and so it's no surprise today, I've seen that.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u187	Turn off the microphone. Not by subject. Easy to say, it's not the subject. Let's hear if he's gonna talk on the subject. Please, can microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u188	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you. I'll be in touch. If we have a topic, it's a draft ratification of the loan agreement, right? I have a question that I asked when we discussed last week the ratification of the loan agreement for Ukreximbank. Similarly, we take $150 million in loans to expand access to financial services markets. However, according to the Code of Budgets, this loan is due to the government debt of Ukraine, and it will have to be paid in the event of failure by the parties to the commitment. Question: Why do we increase Ukraine’s external debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u189	This loan is intended, first of all, not to increase Ukraine’s debt, but to lend to agricultural entrepreneurs and agricultural production. This loan is for 20 years. As far as debt is concerned, I would like to point out that World Bank loans, if you don't look at them, are the most effective and the most effective. And you can see in the documents, really, which in 20 years, what the coming will be as a result of this loan being made. And we've only shown direct revenue there, and there's still some revenue that's going to go to the State Budget, for example, through the bank's income tax payment, because of the value added tax, because of the changes to the Pension Fund. These are mediocre inputs. So I don't want to agree that this loan is harmful to an increase in government debt, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u190	Thank you. The school of Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u191	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to really clarify the situation: which bank will serve. You call it, please, because it can't go directly from the Bank of Reconstruction and Rural Development. That would be good, but unfortunately there will be a middleman who will make money. What he's going to earn, how much peasants get. And how will rural entrepreneurship support take place in the first place? Because you know, when we're talking about 150 million, of course, that's a lot of money for those sitting here in the right-hand room. It's a small sum, for peasants big, but still. What exactly are the programs, how will they be financed? How will it be controlled? 20 years, when you talk about 20 years, there's an increase in the service of this loan. So who calculated the benefits of the country, the benefits of the peasants? Because very often, under the protection of the rights of a peasant and business, it is possible to earn only one bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u192	Thank you for the large - scale question. I'll try it in order, first of all, which banks? Of course, this project has been implemented for several years and we are preparing for its implementation for several years. So in preparation for this project, the preparatory group sent an invitation to everyone without exception to the Ukrainian banks, to participate in the process of selecting them to participate in the project, to all, if I may say so, 159 banks took part. As a result of the selection, three banks have now been selected. With them, credit agreements have not yet been concluded, but they are withdrawn. As for the sum, in fact, this amount is very large for everyone, and for Ukraine including. And why 20 years? And I want to say that this sum, we're planning that in 20 years this sum is going to be 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u193	Thank you. Andrew Mikolaiovich. It's just better not to say "borrowed banks" because it's supposed to be taken away as banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u194	No, no, well, a little bit, I'm just kidding. Communists insist. Please ask a question, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u195	Dear reporter, dear colleagues, we all know that we have banks in the state such as Ukrisimbank and the Savings Bank are state banks. But some of the projects are designed to provide commercial banks, I emphasize, commercial banks, with these costs. Why so? And then another question is, how can they get to the ones you talked about today, and especially to the producers? And one more question. In accordance with the signed loan agreement, Ukraine accepts a $150 million debt owed to it in the State Budget for the corresponding years. How, therefore, and why should the State make a commitment to what commercial banks will do?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u196	The first is why there is no “Restoration”, why there is no “Eximbank”. Because during the selection procedure with the World Bank and World Bank experts and under the selection procedure, these banks did not meet the criteria. However, I would like to point out that the three banks that have now been taken are not the definitively selected banks, this is "Privacy Bank", this is "Creditprombank" and this is Bank "Nadra".
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u197	Thank you, sit down, please. Yeah, from the committee, what's the idea? Stanislaw Mikhailovich Arzvetin, please what position of committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, it's too bad you didn't ask the reporter what's the final interest rate for the borrower? Finally, our committee has considered this bill and, of course, supports it. This proposal is also supported by other foreign committees, on issues of Euro-integration, on legal policy, on the budget committee. And by the way, this amount has already been invested in the budget – the 2007 loan. We also noted that the ratification of such an agreement would add to the image and investment appeal of our country. Among other things, the reporter could also argue that as a result of the successful completion of the project, the budget will be supported by income of almost $45 million. But our committee also makes some warnings. And here they are. First of all, this should be a more transparent and public procedure for involving banks in this program. And in our view, there is no need to limit ourselves to two or three authorized banks. We're also worried so far about what we haven't seen clearly, what the final interest rate will be for the borrower in agriculture. And we're concerned that the ideology that's set up for the tax credit regime hasn't turned into ordinary lending. We also want the Ministry of Finance to take into account the position that so far the terminology of the “change front” in Ukraine is not being used. It's at zero price in the calculations, but we haven't seen the methodology of its calculations. Too bad, of course, no one asked the question, what would be the final interest rate. But this might be a key question. Therefore, our committee asks for support and for the Supreme Council to ratify the agricultural loan agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-12-13-m0.u199	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Exchanged thoughts. It all became as clear as God’s day. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0043. [[14:18:59]] For 231 The treaty has been ratified. Dear colleagues, let us adopt a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on maritime shipping. Vote? Registration number 0049. Please vote. It's simpler than a bank. Let them swim. [[14:19:33]] For 330. Act adopted, deal ratified. At this, dear colleagues, the morning session is closed. We're still working on the committees, and I'd like to do some good work so that we can deal with these questions tomorrow, so that we can look at them on the committees today. Good. Tomorrow's the beginning, as always, at 10 o'clock.
