ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u1	Deputies! I'm asking you to sit down and check in. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:00:17]] There are 254 deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. I beg you, calm down, MPs. Deputies! There's a statement from two factions regarding a break for half an hour. I'm asking for your attention! I'll make two announcements and we'll call a break after that. The first announcement is this. Today is the birthday of the deputies Kravczuk Petr Kostaninovich and Melnik Stanislav Anatoliyovich. It's not their fault they have to be greeted in this environment, but let's welcome the nominees. Next. In view of the coming statements made by the national deputies of Baranov, Boko, Bondarczuk, Bahaytsa, Bulba, Volga, Goncharova, Darkača, Kouzmenka, Kupchenka, Mentusa, Mordovtsa, Polakova, Rudzikowski, Sadykov, Semenyuk, Selchenka, Spodarenko, Tarasova, Filindash, Tsushka, Chernobyl, Cmira, Chukmasov and Šibka about the withdrawal from the Coalition of the Democratic Forces, formed on June 22, pursuant to article 66 of the Supreme Council Rules, I inform of the cessation of the activities of the Coalition of Democratic Forces. And in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 61, 62, 63 of the Supreme Council Regulations, I announce the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Coalition of Deputies of the Fifth Council of Ukraine. A coalition of MP factions was formed on the basis of the Agreement on the Coalition of Deputies in the Supreme Council, signed by the heads of the MP factions of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine, consisting of 238 national MPs who signed their personal signatures and confirmed their agreement to become members of the coalition. The list of members of the named MPs with the individual signatures of the national MPs is an integral part of the coalition agreement. They're adding up. I'm calling it a half hour break. Heads of factions please gather on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u2	I'm asking you to excuse the people's deputies for keeping the break for more than half an hour because there was a discussion of members of the Conciliation Council, representatives of various political factions. And according to the tradition that we have in Parliament, after such a break, both its initiators and those who opposed that break are able to express themselves. Or who just meant it. But we agreed that from each faction, the Conciliation Council, once again, did not deny that each faction spends five minutes on making a statement, because society is looking forward to such a prospect. That's why I'm asking you to vote for that procedure. Who, in order to give, to take the time away from each faction for five minutes, spoke about the current situation. Here comes the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:08:55]] For 225 I would like to apologize for not being able to insert all the cards, please insert all the cards. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a re-voting by procedure. Whoever's behind this, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:09:54]] For -232 Decision taken. Please calm down. Let Turkinov through to the rostrum. Let Turkinov through to the rostrum, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm talking to radio audiences and television viewers, you see who doesn't want the Supreme Council working, who brought megaphones and other devices into the session room. It's not about solving political issues, it's about adopting the necessary laws. The point is that at all costs, specific people want to come to power, to receive appropriate authority at all costs. That is why all of this can be done, but in the procedure provided for in the Constitution and the Rules. Recently, the session was blocked by deputies requiring compliance with the Rules, and today the Rules apply to each letter. Others do not allow meetings to be held because their intentions to take full control are not satisfied. But society was different. That's why I think it's a pure provocation designed to keep Parliament from working. A break of 15 minutes is announced. I ask the factions to come to the Conciliation Council Hall. 15 minutes off, please. A break of 15 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, at a meeting of the Conciliation Board, we came to the conclusion of this. I suggested from the faction's point of view that we can express ourselves on the procedure that we announced earlier, and then by making procedural decisions that come out of the current order of the day, we'll take a break until 16 hours and continue to work. I think the sound background that exists for radio and television audiences is the best demonstration anyone wants. Who wants to make a statement from the factions, please. From the faction, take turns from the Communists, please. Turn on Simonek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! After the parliamentary elections in Ukraine, there was a sharp increase in your knowledge of socio-economic contradictions and deepened divisions, including on territorial, linguistic, ethnic and religious grounds. The real threats of attempted forced entry into WTO increased without economic analysis, the involvement of Ukraine in WTO and the destruction of a domestic producer. There was tension in the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. Frankly, Western and I approve the international course of the orange team has practically buried mutually beneficial cooperation and equitable cooperation within a single economic space. And the trade wars between Ukraine and Russia have become a nightmare for our Ukrainian producers, for our workers. Energy food and security, the livelihoods of Ukraine's social and industrial infrastructure were the basis of political traders for government portfolios and income positions. As you know, prices and tariffs for housing and utility services have increased dramatically. Instead of public support, the multinational Ukrainian culture, the development of the Ukrainian language, the power has taken a course to destroy Russian counterfeiting, the heroic history of the Slav peoples, the rehabilitation of the UPA UN. The management chaos, the incapacity of the authorities of the oranges, has put Ukraine on the verge of losing state sovereignty and independence, to the brink of becoming a Nazi neocolony. In these circumstances, aware of the full degree of responsibility to the people of Ukraine, we, the Communists, have taken the initiative to establish a broad anti-crisis coalition. And as you know, on 6 July, the Company's faction took a politically balanced decision to support Frost's candidacy for the post of head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We considered it possible to reach this justifiable compromise that paved the way for the establishment of an anti-crisis coalition. This resulted in the closure of the work of the Supreme Council and the establishment of governing bodies. On 7 July, an anti-crisis coalition was established. By signing an agreement to establish this coalition, we have been guided solely by the interests of our constituents by the State. Without overcoming the divisions that exist in our society today, it does not guarantee the constitutional rights and freedoms of our citizens to work and rest, to education, to medicine, to high wages, to affordable housing, to secure old age. We can lose our country with you tomorrow. We are confident that the need for such a broad anti-crisis coalition at this stage of public development, in the context of globalization of all spheres of human life, has made it a priority to address the national and national challenges to the narrowly party. That is the main step towards the compromise that we have made, the communists, realizing that the people of Ukraine are behind us, Ukraine. We are also aware that the political forces that signed the coalition agreements have ideological and other differences. Therefore, we Communists have clearly defined the principles of our participation in the sharing of responsibilities in the anti-crisis coalition. And we believe that the time has come to act, the time has come for practical matters to meet the promises they made during the elections. The participation of us Communists in the anti-crisis coalition is not a barrier to our interests. In strict compliance with our programme objectives, we have proposed, among the priority anti-crisis challenges identified by our agreement, particularly domestic policies. And we promise our voters that in this regard we will defend our positions in the work of the anti-crisis coalition. These are prices and tariffs for housing and transport services, strict compliance with their quality, the development of compensatory mechanisms in case of price increases due to changes in the world environment, the inadmissibility of replacing benefits with targeted payments and the rise in retirement age. We will necessarily, in defending the interests of our constituents, Ukrainians, seek fair tariffs on wages. We propose to extend the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land until 2015. We believe it is necessary to reduce and, in the future, eliminate the value added tax that destroys our manufacturer. We consider all the pressing issues that have arisen in society to be resolved only by referendum, or this to be the question of Ukraine's accession to NATO, the use of the second Russian State language, WTO accession and other issues, including the Single Economic Area. In the field of foreign policy, we are convinced that the Extrablock Status Act should be adopted. To develop and deepen integration links within the framework of the EP today. We believe that normalization of the work of the Ukrainian energy market is essential, and the question of accession to the WTO is above all a question of deep socio-economic analysis. We believe that today's work is being blocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u5	From the Julia Timoshenko Faction, will you speak? I'm asking you to speak from the faction of "Timoshenko ulija" please? Right. You're hearing an argument from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. From the faction of the “Our Ukraine” Block as well. From the Socialist faction, who will speak? Ivan Sidorovich Boki National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u6	Dear voters! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I, John Boki, the representative of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, perform under this whistle and this wild whistle of representatives of the Block of Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine. You realize that it is both difficult and easy to perform in such a situation. It's easy to understand that you're dealing with people who aren't raised. Uncultured, who are used only to organizing wild howls and wild games, but I'm going to talk in action and in the way I should. The Socialist Party of Ukraine today has actually taken responsibility with the Party of Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine for the political and economic situation in Ukraine. We are well aware of what is happening in Ukraine. All three months after the elections, they showed that our Ukraine, the faction of our Ukraine, actually wanted to usurp power in Ukraine, and it had three months of meaningless talk about power in Ukraine, about division of power and so on, and so on. Actually, what was going on. There was one thing, "Our Ukraine" didn't want to be in charge of the government, Julia Timoshenko. The Socialist Party supported her in this position as long as it was possible. Now it's clear that by putting his representative Peter Prashenko in this position, "Our Ukraine" wanted to break the democratic situation from the inside and thus proved that it is not a constructive force, it is not a building force in our society. And so the socialists went to such a difficult step for us as to move to the anti-crisis coalition, but it was only the right step in the situation. It was clear that in the near future, neither the election of the Supreme Council nor the appointment of the Prime Minister could take place. We realize that in some places there is a misunderstanding of this socialist step. But understand, it was necessary to save Ukraine, because if we hadn't made that move, Ukraine still remained in chaos, insolence and. Today, the antichrist coalition is forced to take responsibility. And I assure you that in the near future, both the leadership of the Supreme Council and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be elected, Ukraine will receive a Prime Minister, and a government that can solve economic, social and political problems. We have taken responsibility for the unification of the East and the West. It is time to divide the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people, into full and full people. People both in Donbas and Kiev and in Dnipropetrovsk and in Lviv want to live a normal human life, want to feel worthy of people, people who want to work, not only want to work, but also want to get a decent salary, worthy pensions and an anti-crisis coalition will give it to the people if we don't mind, because our Ukraine and the Yulia Block Timoshenko will organize power in Ukraine. We think that the electorate of Ukraine has already figured out who they are dealing with. I am speaking literally in the context of the trumpeters from “Our Ukraine” and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, who want to break the work of the Supreme Council. And I urge the people of Ukraine to group around the anti-crisis coalition, to allow the legitimate government of Ukraine to give a decent life to people, to ensure full existence, to ensure the full work of the Supreme Council, the government of Ukraine, the authorities, and ultimately,
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u7	The word is from the Party of the Regions. Please. Eugene Kushnarov, the faction of the regions has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u8	Dear Alexander Alexandrović, respected citizens of Ukraine. We are all witnessing an aggressive and pointless position taken in Parliament by two orange factions – BUTT and Our Ukraine. In their cynicism, in their gross violation of the Constitution, the laws of the Supreme Council, they show more than mere nonsense, they show the deepest disrespect for Parliament as the country's highest representative body. They show absolute disrespect for the Ukrainian people. What's the difference between our positions? When we blocked the rostrum, we opposed attempts by the orange coalition to grossly violate the Constitution by using the so-called package vote. We have advocated attempts to usurp power, against these attempts, for the right of the opposition to which we have been prepared to control power. What two factions are speaking against today. They cannot agree with the fact that we, the three factions of Parliament, rejecting everything that can separate us from each other, have united ourselves around the main one – the desire to unite Ukraine, to form responsible, professional power, to raise the country's economy. To raise the well-being of our people. They hate it because they cannot accept the very fact that we have created our anti-crisis coalition. Dear colleagues of the orange factions, I am addressing you as colleagues so far, what do you say about Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, if you don't think that we have half the voters of our country behind us? What you falsely call for unification if you do not take any constructive steps towards us. Think about it. You still have the opportunity to work together constructively to make sure that the united country has forgotten the opposition of the past and a half years and has begun to work together to come out of this crisis. I am addressing the President of Ukraine. Mr. President! You have repeatedly called on Parliament to work constructively. We, the anti-crisis coalition, are ready for this. You have repeatedly called on Parliament to form an effective government as soon as possible. We're ready for this. You have repeatedly urged the political elite to start a normal dialogue, to join forces for the main goal of unifying Ukraine. We're ready for this. So, Mr. President, call upon the party whose honorable head you are to stand on the road, on the path of constructive action. Give up your senseless opposition. Give up the shame that they display today in front of all Ukraine and above all the world. We are ready to assume responsibility for Ukraine’s fate. We are ready for normal dialogue and cooperation with the head of state; we are ready to join forces with those representatives of the orange camp for which Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, is above the employment issue of Poshenko and Timoshenko. So let us unite in the name of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-07-11-m0.u9	I refer to those who use loudspeakers. No one will speak anymore, no one will speak again, you can calm down because you can get used to this noise. Deputies! Before the recess announcement, please. Julius Volodymyrically, give the command to stop. I want to call it a break, I need it for that. Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal that after the opening of the evening's meeting at 16 o'clock we proceed with the full consideration of all issues of today's agenda. I'll bet you that vote, please. [[11:58:26]] For 235 Decision taken. There's a break until 4:00.
