ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:55]] Registered - 401 There were 401 members of the National Assembly Hall registered with cards. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Mordovian Leonid Mikhailovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on March 14, 2006. 12 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result, five laws and two decrees were passed, one bill was adopted on the basis of which one bill and four draft decrees were rejected. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules on Wednesday, we have 45 minutes for the presentations of authorized representatives of MPs and factions with statements, reports, information. I'm asking my respectable colleagues to file a statement against the factions. And, at the same time, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come to the Secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which have been properly formulated. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vassila POTAPOVA and Jaroslav SOCIETY to the President of Ukraine for the introduction of Ukraine without warning from March 3, 2006, a new customs regime for the movement of Transnistrian goods across the Ukrainian-Prinistrian border, which could lead to a humanitarian disaster, as well as the inability of more than 60,000 Ukrainians living in the territory of Transnistria to exercise their electoral rights and participate in the elections to the Supreme Council, since no electoral office has been opened throughout Transnistria. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:00]] For-127 Request not supported. Sergia KASJANOVA to the President of Ukraine regarding the environmental situation near the villages of Taromsk and the Horny Dnipropetrovsk district of Dnipropetrovsk and the acceleration of the implementation of the State Program of Bringing Dangerous Objects of the “PRIDSTROW Chemical Plant” into Environmentally Safe Status. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:40]] For-57 Request not supported. A group of deputies to the President of Ukraine on measures to prevent the intentions and actions of executive power aimed at disrupting the electoral process and falsifying the results of the election of the national deputies. [[SLAUTA, COMAR, CORSACOV]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:13]] For-123 Request not supported. Mr. Gregory KALETNIKA and Mr. Jaroslav Dryo to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Court of Auditors for the criminalization of the Head of the State Customs Service for the violation of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which led to the creation of corruption schemes in the movement of meat and meat products through Ukraine. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the prime minister, the Attorney General, to protect against the destruction of the irrigated land system of the Dmitry community of the Kakhov district of Herson. Ms. Alexander KARENKA and Mr. Igor ŠURMI are responsible for the duties of the Prime Minister, Head of the Donetsk District State Administration for the provision of funding to the Rajgrad District Hospital of the Donetsk Region. FIXA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Lugansk District Administration, for the unsatisfactory housing situation in the village of Toshkovka-1 Lugansk region. Maria MARKUS to perform the duties of Prime Minister, Head of the Holding Foundation on blocking the management of the Open Shareholder Society “Paulgradwogil” to carry out the government's task of carrying out the revaluation of damages caused by health damage to the Stepova and Jubilee miners. Anton KISSE to the prime minister's responsibility to allocate funds for the capital repair of the road from the village of Zadunajka in the Arctic region to the village of Vynogradna in the Odessa region. Alexandra MASSENKA to the Prime Minister's duties to provide the “Tavria” car of the town of Hadzac Poltaw region. Andria SKILLY to the Prime Minister’s duties regarding the state of emergency of the power lines in the village of Kasperovka in the Kozyatin district of Winnitsk. Vassila Sirenck to the prime minister's duties in connection with the violation of legislation in the allocation of land rations for the inhabitants of some villages in the Kyiv region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOV to the prime minister’s office, the Attorney General, regarding the situation surrounding the construction of the trade complex with a customs terminal in the village of Avantgard of the Ovidiopol district of Odessa. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Prime Minister's duty to protect national interests in the dutyless trade at the points of entry through the State border of Ukraine. Teams of deputies to the prime minister's duties to restore the services of the Kirilian Church of Kiev. [[KYRIČENKO, SAMOFALOV, CALETNIK AND OTHERS]] Vassil SALIGIN is responsible for the duties of the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, regarding the illegal actions of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, the Head of the Kharkiv District State Administration regarding the state-owned enterprise PowerMash, the facts of corruption and the causing of damage to the State in a particularly large way. Sergia KASJANOVA to the prime minister's duty to prevent further pollution of the area near the villages of Taromsk and the Horny Dnipropetrovsk region, to eliminate the effects of pollution resulting from the production of the “Dodniprovsk Chemical Plant” plant. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the prime minister’s responsibility to allocate funds for the construction of buildings financed by a State Budget grant in the localities of the Dnipropetrov region of Petrikowa. Vadima GUROVA to the prime minister's duties as Prime Minister in relation to the situation in the Crevice mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister’s duties to provide housing for a family who has moved from the Blackwater AES alienation zone to the village of Lazorka in the region of Poltava. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the prime minister, the minister of health, the head of the Detainee Foundation, the Attorney General’s Office on the legality of decisions taken by the Lviv district authorities to reorganize the district hospital and transfer it to other institutions. Anatolya HIRSCHFELDA to perform the duties of the Prime Minister, Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Head of the Kharkiv District State Administration on the situation in the village of Orilk of the region of Kharkiv. Anton KISSE to the prime minister's responsibility to allocate funds for the capital repair of the road from the village of Petrivsk-1 to the village of Serpneve and the village of Petrovska in the Tarutin district of Odessa. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the prime minister, the Attorney - General for unlawful dismissal from the work of the chief physician of the Malin Regional Medical Association, the abolition of the Malin city’s head, and the head of the district public administration for medical union workers. Alexia BABURINA and Sergia CHICHANOVA to the prime minister. Alexia Baburin and Sergey Cicchanov are responsible for the Prime Minister's duty to prevent the sale of the auction of the river's freighters, which are leased by the cruiser “Ukratschflot” in Zaporozhye. Olga KOBETZ to the prime minister's duty to carry out the Presidential commission of Ukraine to ensure that the National House of Organic and Chamber Music is properly housed in connection with the transfer of the architect's monument to the Church of Mikolai in the use of the parish of St. Nicholas of the Roman Catholic Church To the prime minister’s responsibilities in gasification of villages in the Grand Duchy and in the Trieste regions of the Suma region, Vladimir PETRENCA is responsible for the gasification of the villages. Alexander GOLUBA to the prime minister’s responsibilities in gasification of the village of Penkowka in the Latin Region. MICIVILLE to the Prime Minister’s responsibility to complete the capital repair and rehabilitation of the district hospital in the village of Kožanka in the Winnitsky region. TO THE prime minister in charge of negative trends in the activities of the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory. In response to the MP’s request for unconvincing information about the absence of reasons for raising prices for sugar, Kabmin’s encouraging assurance of the full satisfaction of the sugar market’s needs, which contradicts the present level of prices, creates the possibility of speculative structures. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister for failure to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine to improve the procedure for determining the size of the financial security of the military, the persons in charge and the composition of the internal affairs bodies. GREGORY BONDARENCA to the prime minister's obligation to cancel the 50 per cent income tax imposed by the Timoshenko Government for agricultural producers of state-owned property. Alexander RIMARUKA and Vasil Hara to perform the duties of Prime Minister for the introduction of Ukraine without warning from 3 March 2006 of a new customs regime for the movement of Transnistrian goods across the Ukrainian-Prinistrian border, which could lead to a humanitarian disaster, as well as the inability of more than 60,000 Ukrainians living in Transnistrian territory to exercise their electoral rights and participate in the elections to the Supreme Council, since no electoral office has been opened throughout Transnistria. The Group of Deputies (BOGATIJOVA, BACHTEJEVA, SAMOFALOV) are to perform the duties of the Prime Minister as regards the situation of the liquidation of the Lviv Municipal Hospital of Re-medication and the legality of the decisions of the Lviv District Council and the State Administration regarding the transfer to hospital premises and the release of the staff of the hospital. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, for the increase in the purchase price of gas for supply companies. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the prime minister's responsibilities regarding the presence in Gorlovki Donetsk Region of the Electric Equipment company, whose management has contributed to the costs of citizens. John ZAJECH to the prime minister's responsibility to pay off the debt on the wages paid by the bankrupt companies in the Canary region of the Cherkas region. Anatoly of RACHANS to the prime minister’s responsibility to compensate for the expenses of the children’s sanatoriums in Eupatoria, which adopted children from Alcevsk. Mr. KORJA and Mr. Oleg BILORUS are to serve as Prime Minister for the illegal liquidation of the Department of State for the adaptation of the Ministry of Justice legislation. Vassil NADRAVIA to the Prime Minister’s duties as medical personnel of Lugansk. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Prime Minister’s duties regarding the size of tariff rates, other payments and the granting of benefits to health workers. Vassili SALIGIN is responsible for the performance of the post of Prime Minister, Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the beating of the head of the territorial electoral commission of the village of Kozyyyivka Krasnokutsky district of Kharkiv region of the Party of the Regions by a group of persons headed by the head of the Krasnokut regime, the head of the unit “Our Ukraine” by Vlasenkom and the administration of administrative resources by the head of the Krasnokut regime of Dmitriev to intervene in the investigation of the case. Alexander Feldman to the Prime Minister for the financial support of newspapers issued in the languages of national minorities. MICHELLA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the use of funds that will be added to the increase in the rate of natural gas transit in accordance with the signed agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Alexander Goluba to the prime minister’s responsibility to set up a telephone for the residents of the city of Kremenczuka, who have been in line for the telephone call of the house for more than thirty years. Anatoly OF ORGANIC TO THE Acting Prime Minister on the material and technical basis of the anti-tuberculosis measures of the Herson region. Mr. Jaroslav SUCHI and Mr. Vassil SHOOTO to the duties of prime minister, Attorney General, Head. The C.E.A. on the criminal responsibility of the State Customs Authority for creating a tax evasion scheme for importing goods into the customs territory of Ukraine. Mikhail KOSIVA is under the prime minister's responsibility to discriminate against pension workers who have worked under harmful conditions. Igor ŠURMI to the prime minister, the Attorney General, for the unlawful decisions of officials of the Lviv District State Administration regarding the activities of the Lviv Municipal Hospital of Re-treatment and the illegal removal of the hospital from its own premises. Maria MARKUS to the prime minister's office, repairing the road, repairing the school, fortifying the banks of the river, depriving the school bus, saving the bailout branch in the village of Lopuchovo Tachiv district, Zakarpatsk district. Mikhayla RADIONOVA to the prime minister's duty to raise the salaries of school inspectors, district departments and education authorities. Efima FIXA to the prime minister, Head of the Lugansk District Administration, on the socio-occupational living conditions of pensioners and Lonely Residents of the village of Topolovka Lugansk. Ms. Alexander KARENKA to serve as Prime Minister, Head of the Chernigiv District Administration for the provision of gas and heat to residents and social areas of the village of Baklanova Muravijka. Mikli NOČENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the failure of the President of Ukraine's mandate to establish a state-owned oil and gas company Sumi-oil. Mr. TATUSEKA and Mr. Vasil DATOVA to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the criminalization of the leadership of the State Customs Service for gross violations of the customs exports to the Russian Federation of apples of Ukrainian origin. Ms. Olena BONDARENKO is responsible for the duties of Deputy Prime Minister KYRILENKA to pay compensation for unused sanatorium trips to residents of the village of Kornin Popljenyan district affected by the accident at the Chernobyl AES. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney-General for the consideration by the Attorney-General of Ukraine of the investigation of the case of Lazarenko and its members of the official information of the State Tax Administration on the facts of the millions of foreign economic instruments between the leading Yulia Timoshenko Ukrainian company “The Only Energy Systems of Ukraine” and the offshore Cypriot company “Somoli Enterprises Limited” whose shareholder under the documents of American justice is Timoshenko and her husband. Larissa VACHENCO to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, on the legality of the recognition of ownership of a sports complex with a limited liability company “Scarage-sugar”. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General on the violation of criminal and procedural legislation in the investigation of the murder of Viktor Kozlowski in the region of Kyrovograd. Boris BESPALO to the Attorney General for the cessation of the illegal activity of a nightclub in the Obolon district of Kyiv. Vladimir WOJŠA to the Attorney General about the identification of the owner of the house in Simeiza, mentioned in the article “The Ghost Building” on the Web site “The Watcher”, and the involvement of the authors and subscribers of this article for the dissemination of false information that compromises the Opposition Block “NO YES!” and personally one of the leaders of the Victor Medvedczuk bloc. Alexia Korsakova to the Attorney General for the violation of the constitutional right of the property of the citizen of Prokhorenko as a result of the unlawful actions of the prosecutor of the city of Dnipropetrovska. A group of deputies to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the protection of the constitutional rights of the citizen of Chevvatka, and the criminal responsibility of the perpetrators of the robbery. [[CRONOVOLENKO, VUZANKO, GRIGOROVIC]] MICHELLE’S DOATOR to the Attorney General on the illegal distribution of land and property in the village of Sergiyevka of the Krasnoarm district of the Donetsk region. A group of deputies to the Attorney General, the Head of CEVC, to prevent the intentions and actions of effective authority aimed at breaking the electoral process and falsifying the results of the election of the national deputies. [[Comer, Richer, Slautah]] SERGEY DOROMUNZOVA to the Attorney General on the grounds and objectivity of the investigation of a criminal case involving a citizen named Antonov. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney-General for the “crossing” of the prosecutor’s office of the five-year burden on the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev in an investigation into the fact that the funds of the Chernobyl Foundation were stolen in 1999 amounting to 146 000 dollars from the All-Ukrainian Public Organization, the Union of Chernobyl. People of Kirichenko to the Attorney General regarding the responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs for failing to execute decisions on the renewal of the post of Rector of the University of Luhansk. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kyiv region, in connection with the situation in the city of Bila Church of Kyiv district in connection with the fraud of game automatics owners. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General about the dissatisfaction with the reply of the prosecutor of the Lviv region to the MP’s appeal regarding the citizen’s complaint of misconduct by the mayor of Morshin. RAISES OF BOHATIR AND RAVIL SAFIULLIN to the Attorney General, the Minister of Health’s responsibility for the situation involved in the provision of medical care in the central district hospital of Shisaka Poltaw district. Ms. CHICHANOVA to the Attorney General for the protection of the rights of residents of rural areas of the Malin district of the Zitomir region to the proper size of the land rations. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General for the incompleteness and one - sidedness of determining the causes and circumstances of the possible chemical poisoning of a former military officer in the A 1789 city of Vasilkova. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for the unqualified actions of the Kyrovograd Interstate Environmental Prosecutor's Office for the violation of a criminal case for the illegal possession of radioactive material on a closed stockholding company “Silicate Lightware Plant”. Alexia Korsakova to the Attorney-General on the illegal actions of co-workers of the Office of the State Service for Combating Economic Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Dnipropetrovsk Region and the Deputy Prosecutor of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of Rijeka on the limitation of property rights to immovable property belonging to FAIN. Mikli Sokirka to the Attorney General for the inappropriate response of the Vinnicki District Attorney’s Office to the collective appeal of the teaching team of the Ustian School of Education in the Bershadi district regarding the abuse of the service director of the school. Larissa VALCENCO to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Industrial Policy, the Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in Protecting the Rights of the Owner of Enterprises from Violations of Law, the pressure exerted to stop the activities of enterprises. Mr. Vladimir FYALKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the verification of violations of existing land lease legislation in the Berislav region of the Hersonian region. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General’s Office on the legal burden of deciding whether or not to grant ownership of the land. Jurya BOJKA to the Attorney General on the situation surrounding the resuscitation of the case against the Director-General of the “These Things”. Group of Deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the BSS, on the attempt by senior officials of Ukraine to commit a coup d'état. [[CANDJOR, DAVID, AND OTHERS]] Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General’s Office about the gravity of the staff of the Attorney General’s Office in considering the murder of the son of a citizen of Nadjarny. Victor MUSIJAKI to the Attorney General, Secretary of the RNB concerning the opening of a criminal case against the Director-General of the Department of Such Affairs. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General for exceeding the authority of the Borispolski Interdistrict Prosecutor for the issue of duplicates of State acts on the right of private property to land for the inhabitants of the village of Grand Alexander of the Borispol Region. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General regarding dissatisfaction with the response to a request for abuse of office by officials of the District Office of the State. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General on the abuse of the official position of some police officers in the city of Lysicánsk Lugansk region. Leonidas Kadenjuka to the Attorney General. Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the improper response to parliamentary requests for the inactivity of the General Consumer Protection Directorate for the violation of the buyer’s rights by a private entrepreneur. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney-General on the criminal activities of the village of Goreniči Kyivo-Svetosinsky district of Gulenka by placing land under an individual barrier without the decision of the village council session and by changing the target destination of tens of thousands of agricultural lands by entering them within the village of Gorenići. MICHELLA RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, regarding the illegal allocation of company assets with limited liability by the founders who own 50% of the statutory fund. Helen BONDARENKO to the Attorney General for misconduct and abuse of office by the Bistrica Rural Head of the Zitomir Region. Stepan DAVIMIKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Defense’s duties in connection with the violation of legislation in the organization of educational activities at the Odessa Institute of the Land Army. Tamara Proscurating to the Attorney General, Head of the Government Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing for the Violation of Actual Legislation in the Housing of Young Families in Winnica. StanisławA LONG to the Attorney General, Head of the Kiev City State Administration, for the address of residents of the building on the street of the Zoological Shevchenkov district of Kiev for the operation of the café “Pizzeria Grand. The Minister of Justice's responsibility for failing to execute the court's decision to raise funds from the Open Shareholder Association “Novograd-Volinski Meatcombinat” is to be exercised by the Minister-General. Valérie BORZOVA to the Attorney General, Head of the District State Administration for the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of Orikh district for the safety and health of the environment. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney General, Odessa City Head, on the abuse of authority by the head of the committee of the sub-Saharan City of Odessa. Anatolya LISTARENKA to the Attorney General, Acting Minister of Defence, Justice Minister, for failure to execute court’s decision to pay compensation for the unutilized property of a retired military officer. VOJUŠA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice’s responsibility for failing to execute court decisions to repay a citizen’s debt of earnings and alimony debts. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General for the conduct of a criminal investigation into the charges of a citizen named Hmeli. Igor Schurmi to the Attorney General on the abuse of office, forging and flooring of the Head of the Ternopil Power of Stoyk in the case of the acquisition of the pensioner’s son’s apartment, a veteran of work, a widow of war. IOFE's Julia to the Attorney General on the situation that has arisen in the Luhansk region's law enforcement and supervisory authorities. A group of deputies to the Attorney General on the review of the statement of a citizen of Sivakov on the signs of crime in the actions of a member of the CEVK Mageri. [[BLACKWILL, DRY, BACHTEYEVA]] MIKOLI CATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Wynnick district government administration, for the use of gas pipelines in the village of Zbarz Kozatin district. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney-General on the inaction of the prosecutor's authorities in the acquisition of shares in a closed shareholder association “Children's World”. Mr. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the Constitution and the laws of the Herson City Head. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Attorney General for the delay in paying the employees of the Winnicki State Enterprise, the “Himprom Production Union, ” compensation for the loss of money due to the breach of payment deadlines. Leonidas Kadenjuka to the Attorney General. Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the robbery of the people by means of bankruptcy of banks: “OLBank”, “Guarant”, “Kyivska Universal Bank”. Mikli ROJDOVSKI to the Attorney General, Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the DPA on the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs in the Montenegro Market Level. Mr. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General for interfering with the activities of the National MP and for obstructing his parliamentary activities through the closure of the civil reception facility of the Kyiv District of Mironov. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General for the criminal investigation of the charge of a citizen named Dimitrov. Anatolya PISTARENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board on the legality of the operations of employees of the Department of Security of the Ternopil Region during the search on 14 and 16 February 2006 in the premises of the Open Shareholder Society “The Ukrainian Tobacco Company”. Valery BORZOVA to the Attorney General for failure to comply with legislation in the process of liquidation of the Open Shareholder Society Volinpalivo. Mikoli CATERINCHUKA to the Attorney General, Head of the DPA, Head of the Wynnick district government administration for violations by the management of the Dry Dilute Milk Institute. Igora NASALICA to the Minister’s task of dealing with emergencies and protecting the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in an extraordinary flood situation in the village of Pregínsk Rozhnetiv district of Ivano-Frankiv district. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to perform the duties of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure that the car is taken out by a participant in the elimination of the consequences of the accident in the Chernobyl AES, a disabled person of the second group of residents of the village of Zgurówka Kyivsk district. Anatoly of DOMANS to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the inaction and delay of members of the Criminal District Police Department of the Dnipropetrov region in the detection of the crime. In addition to the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy for Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster on the illegal removal of certificates from the Chernobyl disaster’s disaster-related liquidators. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to perform the duties of the Ministry of Environmental Protection in connection with the environmental situation in the city of Perecin, Zakarpatsk district. Vadima GUROVA to the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for obstructing the Drogobic Palm Plant from taking ownership of its acquired premises in Kiev. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the Protection of the Population from the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Protection of the Rights of the Victims of the Chernobyl Disaster, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the Protection of the Population in accordance with articles 37 and 39 of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Igor ŠAROVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Head of the Board of Directors for the prevention of falsification of elections in Ukraine, the illegal use of citizens’ passports to be held during the elections on foreign earnings. MICHELLE’S ADDITIONAL to the Minister of Education and Science’s duties regarding the payment of salaries to teachers since 1997 in the city of Krasnoarmiski Donetské region. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Minister of Health’s responsibilities in carrying out the operation of a member of a fighting operation in Afghanistan, residents of the city of Boryspól Kyiv district. Igora NASALIKA to perform the duties of Minister of Environmental Protection and Minister of Health regarding the ecological and sanitary epidemiological situation in the villages of Ribne and Pavlovka of the Tisminic region of the Ivano-Frankow region. Teams of MPs to perform the duties of a minister of health, a minister for the family of young people and sports, a minister of employment, and a social policy to support and provide necessary assistance to children who suffer from cerebral palsy. [[CRONOVOLENKO, VUZANKO, GRIGOROVIC]] Ms. Alexander ABDULLIN to perform the duties of the Minister of Health in the area of the collective appeal of residents of the villages of the Plains region to prevent the maternity wards of the Alexandrian and Grandfather’s District Hospitals from being closed and for the restoration of the work of the district hospital of the village of Gilch Two. To the Prime Minister’s duty to send a note of protest to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia, Russia’s Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador to Ukraine, Chernomyrdin, in connection with his contemptuous, imperial statement, the widespread media that Ukraine was never a sovereign state. Alexander RIMARUKA to perform the duties of Minister of Construction, Architecture, and Housing, Prosecutor of the city of Kiev, Kiev City Head, Head of the General Directorate for Consumer Protection of Kiev on problems with the start of construction of a residential building. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija Samoplavski, to perform the duties of the minister of justice regarding the inability of the public authorities to carry out the court’s decision on reinstatement of the position of chief physician of the Ddolbunski region. John YVANCHO to perform the duties of the Minister of Construction, Architecture, and Housing to preserve the monument to architecture and to build the national significance, the monuments of wooden heritage, the Church of Mikolai in the village of Kolodna Tachiv. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA is responsible for the responsibility of the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Head of the Lviv District State Administration, Drogobic City Head for dealing with the socio-economic issues of the Cuban family. Mr. JOURNEY CARMAZIN is responsible for the duties of the Minister of Health, the Attorney General, the Chief of Public Service, the Head of the Luhansk District Public Administration on the mass violations of the constitutional right to health and medical care in the Luhansk region, the inadequacy of the occupied office of the Chief of Public Health. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the effects of the Chernobyl disaster on the elimination of the consequences of the accident on the river Čečích Rožnetów district of Ivano-Frankiv district. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Defence Minister’s duties to transfer the military town in the village of Šyrec to the school. Anatolia Domanski and Volodymira PUSAKOVA to perform the duties of the Ministry of Health regarding the situation with the ambulance in Kirovgrad’s Third City Hospital. John YVANCHO is responsible for the ministry’s family, youth, and sports duties regarding the granting of mortgage loans to residents of the Zakartá district. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Minister of Education’s duty to replace the leadership of the State Institute of Applied Art in the city of Kosovo of Ivano-Frankowsk in connection with the ongoing violations of the educational process that led to an uninterrupted student strike. VOLADIMARY MUHINA to the Minister of Internal Affairs in connection with his dissatisfaction with the response to the road accident investigation. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Minister of Culture and Tourism, the Attorney General for the release of the senior lecturer of the Zaporozhye State Music School, the Laureate of International Klimenko Competitions, and the unlawful actions of the director of the designated institution. Yulia IOFFE to the Minister of Internal Affairs's responsibilities regarding the situation in the environmental and supervisory authorities of the Luhansk region. Analyst of RACHANS to perform the duties of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for the restoration of the Chernobyl pension to the first category of the disabled person of Sagidak. Stepan DAVIMUKA to the Minister of Economy's responsibility to verify the management of the sanctions of the open shareholders' association “The New Dealer's Plant of Complex Mineral Goods” Popovica and the replacement of the investor. Jury CARMAZIN to the Secretary of the RNBO, the Head of the Board, the Attorney General, the Acting Prime Minister, the Head of the holding-meine Foundation, the Acting Minister of Transport and the relationship to prevent the threat of national security as a result of the deliberate destruction of Black Sea shipping and its ship base, the improper execution of the President of Ukraine's mission to the shipping company Black Sea Sailing. SERGEANT ŽIŽKA to the Secretary of the RNBO on illegal actions by law enforcement officials in the city of Kerch concerning the citizen of the Republic of Moldova and the limited liability society “MlV”, which have signs of corruption. TO THE Head of the Lviv District Administration, prosecutor of the Lviv region, for the purpose of ensuring the observance of housing rights of residents of the group of shareholders of the “Lviv furniture combination”. JANUARY to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the completion of gasification, water supply and other social issues in the village of Fire of the Dzdolnen region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Head of the State Border Service regarding the maintenance and operation of residential buildings located in the village of Vakulenczuk of the Wonderland District of Žitomir, located in the administration of the State Border Service. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Head of the Kiev City Public Administration for blocking the Architectural and Urban Buildings Council for State House Orders for Staff of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the Head of the holdmain Foundation for the non-implementation of the decision to fully preserve the Herson NaftoPrefabrication plant. Vassila GORBAL to the Head of the Supreme Court on the case of the eviction of a Shubski citizen’s family. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Head of the Board on the verification of activities and sources of funding in Ukraine of the branch of the Institute of SND Countries, headed by Mr. Vladimir Cornilov. MIKOLI COMARA and VasilA SHOOTING to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the inability of more than 60,000 Ukrainians living in the territory of Transnistria to exercise their electoral right and to participate in the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since no polling station has been opened throughout the territory of Transnistria. Alexander RIMARUKA and Vasil HARA to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General, for the violation of legislation during the February 16, 2006, rally in Alexandria, Kirovograd. Tamara Proscuratou and Igor ŠURMI to the Head of Ternopil’s Regional Public Administration for the baseless transfer of the Chief Doctor of Pochai’s district mental hospital in Ternopil district to another position. GROUNDS to the Head of the Plains District Administration, the Ravensian City Head, for unwarranted delay in the entry into service of a building in the city of Raven. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of the Pension Fund for refusing to grant pension on the same terms as the residents of Bilgorod-Dnistrowski. Mr. Yurya KARMAZINA and Mr. Volodymira Chernjak to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Council of Judges, the Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Committee on Legal Policy on the facts of non-compliance with the oath and non-professionalism of Judge Kyivo-Svetoshin of the Tetjana Dubas District Court. Alexander RIMARUKA to the Head of the Court of Appeal of Žitomir, the Prosecutor of the District of Žitomir, for an illegal court decision, which was approved by the judge of the Davidyuk District Court. Leonida Tanjuka to the prosecutor of the Golossian district of Kiev regarding the delay in hearing complaints from the director of the Scientific and Methodological Centre for the development of the critical and visual thinking “Intellect”. Sergey ŽIŽKA to the Head of the Board of Directors in Kiev for the illegal privatisation of the Realto Investment Company of the Mlachov Steel Plant and the supply of construction materials to Kiev from a 30km zone adjacent to Chernobyl. Mr. Paul MUTCHANA to the Attorney General, Director of the State Railway Administration, for the opening of a diesel train stop at 1001 kilometres of Odessa Railway in the district of Mala Viska. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to perform the duties of Prime Minister of Ukraine in respect of unjustifiably high housing prices in Kiev. GEORGIA MANCHULENA to the Acting Prime Minister of Ukraine’s responsibilities in the development of nuclear fuel production for the AES of Ukraine. Andria POLIETA to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources on the consideration of citizens’ appeal for unjustified refusal to issue State-owned land. Thus, honourable fellow Members, 165 parliamentary inquiries have been made. Factions: Ukraine - 28, Communist faction - 30, BUT - 13, National Party -10, Our Ukraine - 20, SPI - 5, National Block - 6, SDPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 4, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 1. "Rebirth" – 2, The National Movement of Ukraine – 11, "Reforms and Order" – 5, non-fractional – 6. Now let's move on to the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs, the factions. Mikola Komar, “Ukraine” faction, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The deeply respected people of Ukraine! The members of the Party of the Regions are concerned about the intention of the current authorities to falsify the results of the popular expression and to disrupt the elections in the East, South Ukraine. The clear evidence that the scenario of the South-East vote collapse and the falsification of its results in the west of the country exists and is exercised by authority is not a statement and a decree on transparent elections but facts. The facts are: changes in borders and the number of constituencies. In the west and in the centre where the support of the forces is maximum, the number of districts has increased, the average number of voters in them has been reduced to facilitate falsification. In the same areas of South-East, where the Party of the Regions has the most support, the number of constituencies has been reduced and the average number of voters has been significantly increased to make voting and election difficult. The examination of the lists of voters in the Lugansk, Simferopolsk, Nikolaevsk, Hersonsk, Donetsk, Kiev, Ivano-Frankovsky, Odessa, Harkovsky, Dnepropetrovsk oblasts revealed numerous violations of the rulings of the Central Electoral Commission and the laws of Ukraine. The voter lists are formed by millions of South-Easters, either not on the electoral lists or their data is distorted. Thus, in the Lugansk and Nikolayev region, voters' lists at some polling stations are not suitable for almost 80 per cent. Thousands of houses, whole streets and neighborhoods are not listed. The inability of electoral commissions to form a large part of them is a serious threat to the conduct of the elections, and again, mostly in the south-eastern areas, it is incapacitated by the high turnover of personnel submitted by the authorities. The Party of the Regions is deeply concerned that in the south and east of the country, representatives of the parties that have drawn up the “Our Ukraine” list deliberately ignore the work of the sectional electorates, are not present at the meetings, which prevents the quorum from being reached for decision-making. The magnitude of the problems is evident not only for the Party of the Regions but also for the majority of other political forces participating in the elections. Dear colleagues, Parliament cannot close its eyes on the possibility of disrupting the elections. Under the current circumstances, it is the Supreme Council that is called upon to ensure a transparent electoral process and not to allow the image of Ukraine to deteriorate in the eyes of the world community. We hope that, after the adoption of the amendments to the laws yesterday, the President will sign them without delay. The fair elections in Parliament are today the number one challenge for Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u3	Vitali Majko of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u4	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Our Ukraine” Block. A statement by the faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs. “The Party of Ukrainian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and its parliamentary MPs consider it necessary to make a statement on the current point that, as the election approaches, it becomes a sign of political intolerance. A party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs has recently found that some electoral headquarters under the cover of political agitation have launched an undisclosed information war against their competitors. The advertising of many subjects of the electoral process differs from aggressiveness, a lack of tolerance in dealing with people with other views. Inseparable acts of intolerance during political advertising have become isolated. Holy categories such as religion, language, territorial integrity are increasingly being used as elements of pre-election technology, turning into tools of unscrupulous political competition. We emphasize that, however brutal the electoral race may be, the unacceptable attempts to divide Ukraine into a Ukrainian-speaking and Russian-speaking part, East and West, we oppose the imposition of artificial stereotypes in conditions that have historically arisen in Ukraine, and that this means disrupting society, introducing its state of non-permanent conflict. We are for the national identity of Ukrainians, for the restoration of cultural values, for a society based on the principles of democracy, multimanence and tolerance, the harmony of interethnic and religious relations. Industrialists and entrepreneurs remain at the forefront of uniting Ukrainian society around the ideas of building an economy, a permanent innovation and technology type, the democratic development of the state and the achievement of high social standards of life of the population. We point out once again that in these difficult conditions of the pre-election race, the stability of the social machinery depends in many ways on the political restraint and responsibility of party leaders and citizens’ unifications. The party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs calls on the political forces, all of its colleagues to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the entire Ukrainian people to go through the next elections peacefully, transparently and honestly, according to the will of the people and to become a factor in the further economic growth of the country, its promotion in the path of democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u5	Thank you, too. Mikola Rudzkowski is invited from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. To prepare Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u6	Deputies! Dear journalists! The Kyiv District Court obliged me to disprove from the Supreme Council’s rostrum my claim that the head of Parliament, Vladimir Litvin, was involved in the organization of the murder of journalist George Gongadze. The court finds that there is no evidence in my statement that Lithuania is involved in the illegal actions against Georgia. Well, I'm a law-abiding man, and I'm willing to admit my mistake and meet the demands of Judge Antibo. So I'm making my next official statement. Convincedly, Vladimir Litwin is subject to criminal prosecution and removal of his parliamentary immunity because all evidence of his involvement in the crime is contained in the official files of the High Council investigative committee headed by Gregory Omelchenk. The documents show that, as chairman of the President’s Administration, he provoked the kidnapping of a journalist and for all five years actively blocked the investigation of this resonant crime. It was Lithuania’s actions that condemned members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe who considered blocking the Georgia Gongadze case to be the best problem of Ukrainian democracy. The head of the Lithuanian Supreme Council, in his position in the Gongadze case, discredits the international reputation of Ukraine and undermines the confidence of society in the Ukrainian authorities, in whose leadership man is involved in a serious crime. From the Supreme Council’s rostrum, I appeal to the relevant competent bodies of law and order to give official qualifications to Judge Antipoi, who has failed to take into account the materials of experts, including the Ukrainian official documents of the investigating commission of the Supreme Council and the criminal case number 60-1241 of the Attorney-General’s Office, which is the basis of my statement, and has given precedence to the suitability and warmth of the unjust authorities. George Gongadze's investigation was and remains a test for the transparency of the Ukrainian authorities, and Ukraine's exam has not yet been passed. All discussion of Euro integration will remain a matter of conversation, as long as those involved in the murder case, the evidence on the Internet, even, continue to hold high office and to nominate politicians for the year. Some of my colleagues said, don't touch Lithuania, it'll be worse, why go? I am convinced that the Gongadze case will never become a political coin for me or for socialists, never. This is a matter of principle and a matter of honour for our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u7	There's only one thing I can say that turns out to be very little honor. Not at all. It's just that I think, my fellow respects, you can't use the rostrum to sail a man when there's a court decision that requires an appropriate decision, and then a man comes out and starts to execute a court decision. Which Europe do you want? Do you want to build Europe in Ukraine? Learn to respect yourself at first! Yes! I'm asking you to stop talking about this. Please, Vasil Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u8	Thank you. Calinchuk, Clothing, Litvina National Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u9	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u10	Statement by the People's bloc of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The holdings of Crimea and other southern areas began in the spring field. Apparently, the agrarian minister, Mr. Baraniowski, gave a sensation upstairs. The information agencies distributed his application for the very high willingness and full security of Ukrainian farms to the soybeans. However, the real state of affairs in the countryside, and we know it quite well, since practically all parts of the country have been around, is quite the opposite. A month ago, a faction of the People's bloc of Lithuania publicly declared a disaster preparing for the spring field. Field work. We demanded that the government immediately meet the country’s budgetary obligations under State support for the production of animal grain. For example, the payment for the sown autumn of a hectare of 100 grains would give the village at least half a billion dollars. That's not good enough. Only 3 regions have small funds. The first quarter ended, and a unit of milk produced, according to the budget schedule, did not receive a penny. The Minister of Agrarian Politics boasts that nearly twice as much credit has come to the village this year — up to 600 million. But that's also not true, because much of this money is nothing more than a prolongation of last year's loans that the villagers couldn't return to the banks because of the country's impoverished policy on the grain market. Banks today only issue credits to large - scale households. For most farms, credit resources are not available. Meanwhile, prices of material resources for the village increased by one and a half times. The faction of the People's Party of the People's Block of Lithuania is outraged by such a totally inadequate agrarian policy of executive power. Last year we worked hard to break the rest of the village’s budget support. For the first time in years of independence in the State Budget for Rural Development and Agriculture, nearly 10 billion dollars have been set aside. But the weak government management is deceiving our efforts. And to the end. The College of Accounts of the Court of Auditors has examined the results of the efficiency of the use of the funds allocated for the development of the APC in 2005 and has drawn the following conclusions: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not ensure the implementation of current legislation to stimulate agricultural production and the development of the agricultural market. The crisis in the agri-industrial complex not only continues, but in some cases even gets worse.” The People's Block of Lithuania strongly needs the government to take decisive action on the implementation of the 2006 State Budget, to provide State support to agricultural producers and to provide food.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u11	Nestor Shufrich is invited to the presentation. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Let me read out a statement by the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine of the United and the “NOT THE Opposition Block!” On March 6th of this year, the publicity was obtained from documents that indicate that the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, which is carrying out strategically important energy security tasks in the country, is actually a bankruptcy. The faction’s management includes information that Yushchenko and Yehanur are well aware of the real state of affairs in the company, but they hide catastrophic facts from the public and continue to subvert its current, completely irresponsible, leadership. In line with the so-called proposals published to improve the financial situation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, this company is in urgent need of a number of extraordinary benefits. Among them is the postponement of tax liabilities for the added cost incurred in January 2006, the provision of a schedule for the payment of taxes on rent and the transit of natural gas, and gas condensate, etc. What is extremely disturbing is the fact that, in order to reduce the deficit, these instruments provide for a sharp rise in natural gas prices, including: for the population from 185 rubies to 277 dollars per thousand cubic metres, for the budget institutions from 288 rubies to 432 dollars per thousand cubes, for the thermal utility companies from 263 bracelets to 395 dollars. According to existing information in February of this year, the company's expenditures amounted to 4 billion 495 million dollars at Naftogaz Ukraine's own revenues. And for all of this today, the Ukrainian people have to pay with their own pocket. By 2005, Naftogaz Ukraine was one of the most successful companies in the state budget. The effectiveness of this company directly depends on the further fate of the Ukrainian economy, its ability to survive in the extraordinary and unprecedentedly difficult conditions under which it is destined to live in today’s government. If the facts are confirmed, there is good reason to conclude that there is a huge threat to the country’s energy security. The faction of SDPU(o) considers it necessary to hold a meeting, even to call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine President Yushchenk and Prime Minister Yehanurov to explain the situation surrounding NAK “Naftogazu Ukraine”. And yesterday we witnessed that billions of our dollars were being sent to join Ukraine in NATO instead of supporting the national economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u13	Oleg Zarubinski of the faction of the People’s Party is invited to the presentation. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u14	Dear head, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u15	Dmitri Pavličko will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u16	Radio listeners, you can see that you are willing enough to use the parliamentary rostrum as an advocacy platform, especially after the debates on the Fifth Channel were catastrophically lost, the genre crisis, there is nothing to talk about. But we'd like to talk about what's bothering people, not all the confrontational people who live in the swamp and obviously live there. Today, we are trying again to draw the attention of Ukrainian society, power, all people of goodwill, capable of compassion for their fellowman, to the problem of life and death of many thousands of our fellow countrymen who suffer from oncological brain damage. These are the patients of the Kyiv Institute of Neurosurgery of the name of the Academy of Romadanova. A third of them are children. On January 20th of this rostrum, we said that the Institute of Neurosurgery really needs to acquire a unique equipment, a gamma knife that allows brain tumors to be removed without any, without any cranial dissection, without injury to healthy cells and centers. Today, the gamma machine is operating successfully on patients all over the world, with hospitalization, think about it, it takes no more than two days, and the operation takes up to an hour. The medical and economic impact of using this equipment is enormous, and it costs about 5 million euros. Today, this problem has been brought to the attention of the whole of society, because thanks to the newspaper Facts, other media involved in the humanitarian action, Ukraine has been holding a fund-raising campaign in August of last year. They give up their modest bracelet - size pensioners, and schoolchildren transfer money by giving up their lunches. More than 670,000 bracelets have been collected, while 30 million bracelets are needed, and the authorities are on the outside. The deputy faction of the People's Party, Vladimir Litvina, officially asked the government, Minfina, for the funds that the government has allocated for the construction of the President's office, which is more than 52 million dollars, to direct to the acquisition of the gamma knife, or to find other financial sources, and they are. The answers that our faction received from Vice Prime Minister Kirilenko and Finance Minister Pinzenic are cynical notes. Our colleague, a member of the People’s Party, Katerina Fomenko, prepared a draft decree, registration number 9218, which proposes to direct 30 million people. The money from the Stabilisation Fund for the purchase of the Hamanish equipment. We insist that today's vote put this issue into the agenda, it will be fair and immoral. And then we will not hear the hammocks, the ignorant, and the podunks in this Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u17	Yeah, I'd like to ask respectable colleagues, well, to a primitive level, not to react accordingly. Please be above that. Dmitry Vasilovich Pavličko is invited from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u18	Dear MPs, dear citizens of Ukraine. Dmitry Pavličko, Ukrainian National Block. The most current line of Taras Shevchenk today is slaves, footstooles, dirt in Moscow. This applies not only to the hetmans but to some of our modern - day politicians, to those who tear themselves to pieces, and to those who have already held the bench. Because under that bald spot, Ukraine was stolen. Leonid Krawczuk, whose figure is read by the slogans “NATO – NO!”, “RUSIAN LANGUAGE – YES!”, forgot that he was behind the only Ukrainian national language. It is with his permission that I, as the head of the commission in foreign affairs, held the first talks with NATO Secretary-General Werner in Salzburg on Ukraine and NATO cooperation. I'm surprised that Mrs. Vitrenco, who is systematically and consistently engaged in anti-Ukrainian activities, but I'm surprised how the first President of Ukraine could have been reincarnated from the patriot to the leader of the pro-Moscian politics. But let's see, the Russian language in Ukraine is not being persecuted, it dominates the media, it dominates the book. In many educational institutions, the Ukrainian language needs to be protected and supported in state corridors today, not in Russian. State language is not just a means of communication. This is the owner of the territory, the foundation, the border, and the government's business card. Never in multinational Russia has there been or will there be a question of a language other than Russian. Because the Russians know that the second language of the state is the collapse of the state. The second state of language destroyed Moldova. The second national language destroyed the native Belarusian language. An evil, anti - government, anti - Ukrainian campaign has taken place today. We don't have democracy! We have anarchy and permissiveness. The government on which the people hoped for the construction of the European Ukraine is demeaningly silent. I, on behalf of the Ukrainian National Block, am addressing the Russians, all nationalities of Ukraine: take the side of Ukrainian patriots, do not sung, do not indulge the servants of Moscow chauvinists! Friendship with the Russian and Ukrainian people can be destroyed forever if you don't hear our voice and support the "breedless little ones" and the faceless national politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u19	Thank you, Dmitri Vasilovich. Time's up. Thank you. Viacheslav Koval from the faction of the National Movement of Ukraine, to prepare Mikola Porovski from the “Rebirth” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u20	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Allow me to announce a statement by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine regarding the situation of reconstruction at the border between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova of the customs regime. The inadequate response of the Transnistrian Business Circles to the border restoration between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova demonstrates the intention of the Tiraspolya Administration to preserve the status quo of the "black hole" in Europe, even through the blockade itself. As is known, last year's initiatives have restored the negotiations on the solution of the Transnistrian problem. And as a result, the parties have already prepared a number of important documents. On the other hand, in order to strengthen security in the region, the Ukrainian government had to establish reliable border controls, counter smuggling and illegal migration by introducing internationally recognized rules for the movement of goods. This has been supported by the European Union, the United States, most of the EU member countries. Today’s situation in the Transnistrian region of the Ukrainian-Moldov border shows the reluctance of the Transnistrian leadership to transfer the activities of the host region to the legal field. Today, there is no reason to talk about the blockade of the region of Transnistria on the part of Ukraine. Problems that have arisen on the border are related solely to the activities of the Transnistria administrations, which are aimed at restricting or blocking traffic across the border, banning Transnistrian economic agents from passing a simplified registration in Chisinau and forming cargo through Moldova’s customs security. Moreover, we argue that this kind of abnormal situation is not at the last warmed up by the Russian Federation, which should be the guarantor of a solution to the Transnistrian problem. The faction of the People’s Movement is concerned that the hostages, the isolation that the Tiraspol authorities have taken over, have become the average inhabitants of Transnistria, a large number of whom are Ukrainian citizens. We urge the authorities of the Russian Federation to use their influence on the head of the Transnistrian Administration of Smyrnov to stop the self-sustainment course he has chosen, because that's what ordinary citizens suffer from, first of all. [[citizen of Russia]] The faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine calls on all participants in the negotiating process to make every effort to preserve its positive dynamics, which came up after the election of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine and the development by Ukrainian diplomacy of a clear plan for resolving the Trans-Prov problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u21	Yes. Thank you, too. Mikola Ivanovich Porovski of the “Rebirth” faction. Prepare Anatoly Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u22	Dear fellow MPs, a statement by the faction of the Rebirth Party. And as the elections against the Rebirth Party are approaching, dirty electoral technologies are increasingly being used. Political opponents of the Rebirth Party have repeatedly made incorrect comments about the activities of the Rebirth Party and our party leaders, accusing them of using administrative resources. On the other hand, from the President’s Office and from the Supreme Council, Vasil Gladys’ heads publicly threatened to resign. Although it is forbidden to do so with respect to a candidate. It is not excluded that we will witness further provocations against the Rebirth Party in the near future, especially from the Party of the Regions. Regional leader Janukovic has repeatedly publicly insulted both voters and members of the Rebirth Party, called for the use of force against our colleague, the national deputy of Astrov-Šumilova, because obviously there is no way to accept the fact that voters from the east and south of Ukraine do not practice “regional concepts” and there are many people who are not going to support the regional elections. The regionals have unsuccessfully tried through the Central Electoral Commission to accuse the Rebirth Party of using administrative resources. Yet the Central Election Commission did not satisfy any of these claims. Moreover, the Head of the Central Electoral Office has officially reported that the CEC has no claim to the electoral activity “Resurrection” because there is no specific fact of use of the administrative resource, no witness, or, as it were, of administrative pressure. On the basis of the above, the Rebirth Party claims that the “regions” have tried to involve the Central Election Commission in dirty electoral technologies. After that, as it failed, the “regions” decided to apply their administrative resources and applied for the “Rebirth” appeal to the Donetsk District Court. It's not a secret that the region's administrative resources are the biggest in Donetsk. And then the decision was in favor of the Party of the Regions. Yet, it is so obvious that even the Donetsk K. Court did not accept the party’s application. Today, when there are less than two weeks left before the elections, it is clear that such regional actions are only due to an increase in the real popularity of the Rebirth Party. We want to stress that the Rebirth Party is a political force united around the economic recovery of Ukraine. We advocate the right of people to work and a proper reward for it. The members of the Rebirth Party worked together and effectively in the 16-18 hours frozen Alcevska in February of the frost, by the way, this Alcevsk was frozen by a member of the Party of Regions, the head of the city of Kriczyenk, and we have proved by our work in Alcevsk that the Rebirth Party has a policy of real affairs. And we tell the regionals, if the Party of Regions has grounds for accusations, let them present their arguments in honest, public debates with the leaders of the Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u23	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Anatoly Seminoga of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko has the right to speak. Prepare Kseniya Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u24	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! People’s MPs, members of the members of the Ulysses’ bloc of deputies, Timoshenko repeatedly demanded that the MP’s immunity be lifted. Unfortunately, our requirement, based on the fact that all laws must meet constitutional standards, and all citizens must be equal before the law, has not found the proper support of the deputy corps. In words, everyone is willing to support our position and agrees that giving intrusiveness to the local councils is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, and in the case of voting, some MPs lack courage. The final Conciliation Council is not an exception. It promised the chairman that today Parliament would consider eliminating parliamentary intrusiveness. We've got the agenda for today, and the question is: “Where is the question of removing the MP's in touch with the deputies of the local councils?” So then public statements to support our position. The Constitution does not provide for the status of immunity for members of local councils. Therefore, we insist that the granting of immunity to members of the local councils is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and will lead to the criminalization of power on the ground. The deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, demands that the issue of cancelling the daytime and immediate decision - making process be included. Parliamentary meetings end on Friday, and we will have no other way of correcting this injustice in relation to all Ukrainian citizens. We also insist on eliminating the inviolability of MPs at all levels. In the fall, we have prepared a bill. Members of the Yulia faction Timoshenko unanimously signed the bill, and we invite all national MPs, who have nothing to hide from their fellow citizens, to join in signing the law. In the event that the issue of the elimination of inviolability is never considered and voted on, our faction leaves behind the right not to participate in the discussion and voting for draft legislation that is under consideration, apart from the social and relevant to the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me be clear in this regard. First, I would like us to be precise: on the Conciliation Council, it was decided that one law should be, that it should be harmonized, that it should be signed by all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions. They're not in a hurry to sign it yet. The other one. It wasn't said. That this question will be put to the vote today. They said it would be when they didn't all do it, they signed it. And the third. No one is going to serve the political aspects of a political power or another. Let's first see who voted and then who votes. Let's get the people into the session room, then we'll make a decision, and whoever initiated this law, please. And don't blame the Chief. Xenia Lapina, please, "Our Ukraine", is invited to the presentation. Prepare Mikhail Vasilovich Kosiwa.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u26	A statement by the parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine" about creating favourable conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The "Our Ukraine" faction claims that there is a need to create a favourable entrepreneurial environment and form a middle class as one of the most important factors in Ukraine's economic development. Then we demand an immediate review of legislation aimed at creating favourable conditions for the development of small and medium-sized businesses. First of all, these are bills on a single social contribution, a bill on a simplified tax system, amendments and additions to Ukraine's laws on reducing the cost of licenses for retail trade in alcohol, tobacco products and so on, a number of bills that business needs today. Regrettably, the repeated attempts of our faction to include such bills in the agenda have not found support in the Parliament’s walls, but fortunately, a very important bill has been put into the order of the present week of the Supreme Council to address the issue of indebtedness of economic operators who apply a special method of accounting and reporting at number 8737. This bill will eventually settle the painful issue of indebtedness to State social funds, particularly before the Pension Fund, which has arisen as a result of a conflict between laws and today is very painful for small businesses. Failure to accept this bill will result in small business subjects being subjected to very high fines and will not contribute to the strengthening of respect for the legislative authority. Because this problem is a problem of contradictions in legislation, the adoption of this bill, or not the only chance we have of correcting our own mistakes. So I very much ask that tomorrow in the agenda there be a question before this bill 8737 is voted on at the beginning of the day. So that you and I can do this one more time, just technically not fail to solve the very important question for a small enterprise. Even though the new authorities have faced the need for a thorough restructuring of the system of authority in general, we have succeeded in some success. And in the legislative sense, this is, first of all, the adoption of the law on the free system. I believe that Parliament has shown itself to be a worthy legislative body here. But before that, it's really a huge job. President Yushchenk's decree on certain measures to ensure the activity of State regulatory policy, the review of regulatory acts applies not only to legal acts, but primarily to the laws of Ukraine, and we have this work ahead of us. And it depends on whether we can form a powerful middle class in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u27	So from the faction of the PRP by Mikhailo Kosov. He will be followed by Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u28	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Reform and Order Party. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues are the National Deputies, the Honourable Voters. Today is the last day of the four-year history of today's composition of the Supreme Council, when we, as factions, have the opportunity to speak out of this supreme rostrum in Ukraine and make our political statements, conclusions, proposals. I understand that the leadership of the Supreme Council will make a thorough report when we finally say good-bye to this hall today, but we should also think about the four-year-old path we've come up with and think about what we've done good and what we haven't done. Today’s Supreme Council has been very politicized. And knowing the work of all previous members of the Supreme Council, I must say that there was no such politicization and polarity in previous parliamentary calls. The only thing to say to the Supreme Council is that we have overcome the political crisis, and the Supreme Council has been the guarantor that overcame the political crisis during the 2004 presidential election. But we never even got to the point where we were talking about issues that were very important to Ukrainian society. Neither the project, including my draft law, nor the parliamentary hearings concerning Ukrainians deported from the pre-Eternal Ukrainian lands that now belong, have we gone to the territory of Poland, we have never come near, we have not even brought this issue into the agenda. We didn't even order a day's discussion of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, although at the beginning of this year, I have the expert conclusion of a working group of historians on the government commission to study the activities of the UN and the UPA. The main point of this conclusion is that this struggle was a struggle for a truly independent, independent Ukrainian state. This book was printed in a circulation of 120,000 copies. So it is no longer possible to keep this matter quiet in society. I think the next Supreme Council will come back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u29	Sadly, though, those 15 - year - old historians gave a completely opposite assessment of this phenomenon. Katerina Samuelk, IPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u30	Respectable citizens of Ukraine. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine expresses its protest against the actions of the orange regime to fuel hostility, the dissension of Ukraine against their loved ones and loved ones. Hersonians are shocked by the beastly murder of the secretary of the party organization of the Ukraine’s village of Nikolsk Bilozer district of Judah Valerija Danilovich. A Communist lost his life in the line of duty. The murderer, the nascent Galatian, acted presumptuously after Yashchenk’s victory. Instead of arguments, he did not rarely use metal rods or fists against opponents. The police refused to commit a criminal offence. In word, hand washes. On March 10, a second argument in the political debate was the hammer that killed Communist Judah. He undressed, burned the bloody clothes, shoved the body into a metal mat, and then took the aggrieves and went into the village to agitate for the "appelsins". The tragedy in Nikopolski showed a beastish ossle of national socialist power. This is the natural result of a loose nationalism policy, a lack of acceptance by the dissidents. On March 8th, in Ivano-Frankovsky, the leader of the KPU election list was beaten to the city council, the first secretary of Johno-Frankovsky's Common Commodore, John Miglachev. On March 12th, in the village of Blasty Valkovsky district of Kharkiv district, Communist Derctor Vasil Sergiyyovich, during the campaign work that was being carried out, he wanders to the district council that the late Judas is so untouchable to you. The attacks on headquarters, the apostasy in Reveny, Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsky, the Ternopil areas caused no reaction from the parents of fair elections, neither the President nor the law enforcement authorities. So who allowed the rights of people to be dealt with in this way? Why does authority arouse enmity among people? Why is there still no response to the actions of the governor of the Plains region? Why is the temple’s fascination ongoing? Why there is no reaction to the protest by priest Oleg Sirk, even though there is a court decision and the temple must be returned. The answer is the official position of the President of Ukraine. Ukraine’s company calls for an end to its lawlessness, Ukraine’s further division, and the oppression of intolerance. The compatriots, be vigilant, let us defend our human rights on March 26, let us choose the political forces that will unite the people of Ukraine, unite the lands of Ukraine, and not separate them, for war continues today and this war continues, the organizers of this war is the authority that does not realize that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u31	Thank you. Yes, there is a request for a dissatisfaction. All documents have been properly prepared, please, by Zara Katusheva. Prepare Victor Mironenko. Katusheva, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u32	The Communist faction, Katusheva. The problem of embodiment of the lands of the southern coast of Crimea for the inhabitants of the Autonomous Republic is an arduous topic that is motivated by the desire to protect its rights, to preserve the unique lands and cultural heritage of the Crimea for descendants. These are the areas of the Lower Oreanda Park Area. The Public Prosecutor's Office has submitted an appeal before the Sebastopol Court of Appeal. Regrettably, however, the case had become a commercial transaction. In view of the fact that the Sevastopol Court of Appeal buildings are under reconstruction and the money is known to be lacking, it is incumbent on the President of the Court to seek out sponsors who are willing to help in the much needed case for the proper functioning of the court. At present, a market economy whose main slogan is “You are me, I am you!” is not always found by useless sponsors who are willing to help without having to provide certain services in return. We would all very much like to see that the public interest expressed in protecting against illegal attacks on the most valuable lands on the coasts of the peninsula does not become a bargaining chip in the creation of human working conditions for the judges of the Sevastopol Court of Appeal. Communists in Parliament have always consistently and in principle protected the interests of the State by pursuing public goals and the good of the people. The slogan “Everything Better — Children!” was filled with real content in Soviet times, and even in a terrible dream it was not possible to predict that a kindergarten from the recreational zone, an environmentally clean area, would be transferred to Yalta to the most polluted place for the new nuvarians. The number of seats has been reduced from 72 to 40, with over 600 seats required. This is an illegal allocation of land to private PACs or Renaissance-South entities. The value of Crimea land per hectare is over $1.6 million, and therefore that miserable fine of 5,000. 945 bracelets for the destruction of green plants, of course it's a drop even in the ocean. It is to be believed that, after an unlawful decision by the judge of the court of commerce in Simferopol, the judges of the Sevastopol Court of Appeal, the Economic Court, in the decision-making process, will be guided only by the letter of the law, without considering whose sponsoring assistance they will have established normal working conditions. I request that you consider Pasenjuk Aleksandr Mihajlovich, President of the Supreme Administrative Court, as a deputy request.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u33	Dissatisfaction with the response to the request of Prime Minister Yehanurov Viktor Miro Nenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u34	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respected compatriots, in connection with emergency situations in the town of Szelkino and the town of Kerchi, I have sent a request to the Government of Ukraine for funds from the contingency fund to address the acute problems of the inhabitants of Szelkino and Kerchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u35	Dissatisfaction with the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u36	The reply notes that this allocation is possible subject to the provision of the necessary documents by the Government of the Crimea. I have addressed a request to the Chief of Government of Crimea Burdugov to send the necessary documents to Kiev. But a few questions arise. First of all, why hasn't the Crimea Government done it so far? Secondly, whether it will promptly prepare and send the necessary documents to Kiev. Thirdly, whether funds are actually made available from the contingency fund, or whether there will be a write-off on what is on board, there is a lack of funds. The inhabitants of the town of Szelkino were this winter without heat, without water, which is scary. They very much hope for the rule of humanity. In Ukraine, in 15 years the capitalist focus of this world’s unprecedented robbery on the part of the people through the universal privatization of the economy has not been replaced by water, heat and sewerage systems. Therefore, I believe that there is no conscience among those who scoff at our homeland, our homeland, in which we were all born -- the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, which has built factories, factories, power plants, which now, these so-called, capitalist Democrats are privatizing, privatizing and privatizing in the name of their own interests, not of the people, contrary to the people. The ruling crows who profited from the people who had approved the capitalist system they had enjoyed with its legitimate privatization falsely explained that there was now no means to deal with those problems. But we understand that resources will continue to be scarce if the majority of the people retain the power of capitalist supporters, with democratic phrases and certain persons identified in the elections. Without significant replenishment of the budget and local budgets, it is not possible to find funds to address social, economic and social problems. The following measures must be implemented: 1. Ensure the nationalization of strategic sectors of the economy so that funds go into the budget rather than into the pockets of oligarchs. 2. To ensure progressive taxation, not as 13 per cent of the oligarchs are now paying. 3. Ensure, not in words, but in reality, the regulation of the economy. 4. Create a single economic space. But that takes people's power. I appeal to you, esteemed voters, do not be deceived again. Support Communists who, not in words, are actually consistently protecting your interests. Only then will socio-economic programmes be implemented. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u37	Yes. And we're done with this chapter. We have statements from two factions: The People's Movement and the Ukrainian People's Party is a break. But they are willing to advise us by speaking. Who will act? Stupac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u38	Vladimir Stupak, Ukrainian National Block Kostenka and Plusha Statement by the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. Deputies! Dear voters! Tonight, in Chernigov, there was a gang attack on the premises of the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. A computer containing all the electoral documentation and kits of all the candidates’ ballots to the district, city, and district councils and city and village heads has been broken down, all the doors broken down, and a computer stolen. All safes have been torn, and only electoral documentation has been taken. At eight o’clock today, 55 minutes later, district chief Ivan Panchenko called the police. Montenegro’s socialist militia drove more than 300 metres for more than 20 minutes. This bandit attack was carried out to intimidate the activists of the Kostenka and Plush constituency and to stop the bloc’s active electoral campaign to the Supreme, District, and Chernigow City Council. Symptomatic is that a robbery has taken place after a series of successful meetings of many national MPs who are part of the Kostenka and Plush Election Block: John the Hare, John the Ivy, Stephen the Cloud, Valery the Assadchev, Vladimir Stupak, and candidates for the district council. Only on the last Saturday and Sunday did such meetings take place in Ichni, Silver, Talalayevts, Barvi, Semenyovci, Ripach, Kulikovitsa, Brezni, and in the 30 inhabited places of Montenegro. This attack took place before the arrival of the leader of the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Kostenka, who is scheduled for March 19. This is the first such insolent attack in Ukraine during this election campaign. The Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka sees this as a political order. Almost all valuable things are left behind. Only what is involved in the election has been stolen. We believe that the subscribers of this attack are the oligarchic, political forces that are afraid that the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka has great support among the people, particularly in Montenegro. The shadow falls not only on the kuchmian forces but also on the newly discovered oligarchic forces. Ukrainians know that our team is the most honest and orderly, patriotic force that goes to elections without oligarchs, bushmen, and bandits. We require the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, to investigate immediately and to bring to justice both the perpetrators and the customers of this insolent crime. No bandits or oligarchs will stop the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plush. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u39	Yes. We're done with queries, speeches, announcements, applications, breaks. In this regard, we will work without interruption until 14 hours. Draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the status and prospects for the preservation of cultural heritage in Ukraine. [[8671]] Please, Lesa Stepanovich. We agreed yesterday that we would vote again today. Please, Lesa Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! We're really divorcing you, let's pay off the debt. We heard the Cabinet of Ministers about the state and prospects of protecting the cultural heritage of Ukraine. We have come to the conclusion that State policy in the area of heritage protection has failed to ensure the creation of a system of cultural heritage institutions and has not become effective. We have concluded with you that the law provides for the creation of specially authorized bodies and the protection of cultural heritage -- the central executive authority in the area of cultural heritage, the body for the protection of the cultural heritage of the Crimea Council of Ministers, the authorities for the protection of the cultural heritage of the district. I mean, the whole vertical thing. It wasn't created until now. In addition, the absence of full cultural heritage authorities in the regions does not allow the application of the protection mechanisms provided for by law. In particular, there are no security contracts, no proper identification and accounting of cultural heritage objects, no regulations and regulations on memory protection, and no financial sanctions for violations of safe-keeping laws, and so on. Unsanctioned archaeological explorations and excavations are increasing at an alarming rate. The Kabin does not make good efforts to coordinate the activities of the ministries of power and cultural heritage authorities with regard to the cessation of black archaeology and illegal trade and the export of archaeological objects, to determine the origin of private archaeological collections. The inaction of state authorities has led Ukraine to become one of the largest suppliers of illegally acquired archaeological objects in the world’s markets. So we've adopted a draft decision from 23 points where the Kabmin information we're proposing to take into account, to recognize the activities of Kabmin in the area of protection of cultural heritage as such that it does not properly ensure the formation of state policy. To recommend that Kabmin create a single organ and many of the other troublesome things mentioned in these 22 paragraphs. I would very much like us to finally vote on this decision today, because non-vote stops the implementation of the law. Well, I wanted to ask you a question today, if you have any questions, because I can see Mr. Toloczko raises his hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u41	Yes, have a seat, please. I see they're desirable. Sign up. Five minutes for reasons of vote. Please point to the board. Hinzburg. Carmazine, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u42	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I wanted to make a statement on this subject and prepared a parliamentary request for Friday, but I want to hear it now. You see, there's the President's decree to create the Mezin National Natural Park, I'm talking about preserving, protecting our monuments. This is about the creation of the Mezin National Natural Park. This was adopted in March-month 2006, February-month 2006. After that, are they progressing toward the event? Following this call, the same initiators in this Mezin National Park are creating a willing and timely agreement, and again they are prohibited from accessing the common people. [[Hunting]] I'd like to pay attention, can this be included in this law? And if you don't, then what do you want to do? That authority took away the land, it took it from people, from the earth. Who, then, can bring order to our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u43	Yes, please, Karmazin Yuri. He's the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin, Yury Karmazin Party Block. Honorable National MPs. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Of course, we need to take this decision now. I ask everyone to see that there is no political element. That's the first one. The other one. I address you, Adam Ivanovich, as Chairman. According to the Rules, nothing hangs behind the rostrum in the speaker. Now I'm going to be speaking, and I'm not comfortable with what the Pharisaic entry “BUT requires removal” hangs there. The people of Ukraine demand the removal of parliamentary immunity! BUILD just ensured its adoption, for on September 8 at 12 hours 49 minutes 34 of the 41st beats provided for the adoption of this shameful law by 270 votes. Take away the Pharisee, Adam Ivanovich! I address the Ukrainian people. Know who the Pharisees are in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u45	I'm on my way to CTU. Please take off what's hanging. Bandoon. Next Garmash.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u46	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina National Block. I'm going to give the word to the national deputy, Toloczko, and I just wanted to make sure that the other options are taken into account, not the one we're looking at. Next, give me the word Toločko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u47	Touchdown, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This is the third time we have tried to accept this decision. The decree is imperfect, the decision is confrontational, it's at war with people who protect their inheritance. Instead, no word in the Black Archaeology Order, no black collection, no export of goods abroad, which Les Tanjuk spoke of today from the rostrum, is in the decree. We've asked her to work on it, but is there not enough intellectual dust in this committee that they've had a third chance of making the same decision without any change? I ask you not to vote in favour of such a decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u49	Garmash. I can't see. Please, Colony Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u50	Colonyari, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Adam Ivanovich, it must be that Carmazin here was explaining that in the history of this issue of the Law on the Inviolability of Local Council Deputies, it is necessary that this story be somehow sounded in the hall: who proposed who accepted it, who signed it, who stimulated it. That's it: Supreme Council, Supreme Council. No, not at all. And the Supreme Council has 450 deputies, even 445. Thus, the history of this will show the people of Ukraine who are who are who in our Ukraine, not in “Our Ukraine” – factions, but in our own Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u51	Well, you've been helped to clarify, but you've been misinterpreted6 not 445, but 425. Yes, please, Manchulenko Georgie.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u52	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka Honorable Chairman and Honorable Fellows! There is no doubt that this is an extremely acute problem for Ukraine, since without our cultural heritage we will not have a proper future. I'd just like to point out that it would be appropriate to bring some problems here to the draft decision in the Chernievsky region. In particular, there is such a village in the Bukovina of Bila Krinica, where there is a center of ancient religious culture. And without the help of the State, without the help of the Cabinet of Ministers, the central authorities of the executive branch of the local authorities are very difficult to keep this cultural monument in proper condition. And I would ask that the Parliamentary Committee pay due attention to this problem, and other cultural heritage monuments on Bukovin in the city of Chernovits deserve the support of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u53	Yes, please, one minute, Tanjuk. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u54	I would ask you not to bring anything into this regulation right now, because it's about the Cabinet report, not about any other action. In the Cabinet report, there were such problems, we studied them, and we analyzed them. And, Peter Petrovich, the whole point is that you would like us to remove the phrase “as the result began to be actively created by organizations that are essentially calculating, that imitate the performance of the functions of cultural heritage authorities, actually on a paid basis agree on some of the programs of construction and earn money.” That's what's bothering you. You have 13 subsidiaries that allow construction work instead of the state. It's a very large amount of money that goes beyond the state. And that's why you're stopping the third time, stopping this determination. This is the third time you've talked about it. You send out letters of punishment in the fields to do these deals with your businesses alone, so that money can only go to these businesses. I'm definitely against you, although I have nothing against you against a scientist, but you have to make money on this. Do you understand? Protecting a cultural heritage. If your organizations were to invest this money in archaeology and excavations, we wouldn't have a problem. I ask you to take this seriously and support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u55	Now we're going to take this seriously. But the Replica is by Toloczko Peter. Microphone Touch, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u56	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, what Les Tanjuk has just said is an absolute lie. In fact, we have in our institute accounting organizations that do research on monuments and that give conclusions to public authorities. They have no right to give or give permission to tear or dig. And if Les Tanjuk thinks and rightly believes that the State Protection System is not created and wants to destroy what the Institute of Archaeology is doing, I'm surprised that he wants Ukraine to be a complete mess in the field of memory protection?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u57	Long live the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences and its permanent director. That's how we vote. I am voting on the basis of a draft decree on information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the status and prospects of preservation of cultural heritage in Ukraine, registration number 8671-D. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:52]] For-142 Not accepted. The factions? Please. “Regions of Ukraine” - 2, Communists - 0, Block of Timoshenko - 23, National Party - 0, “Our Ukraine” - 38, Socialists - 16, National Block - 0, Social Democrats - 0, Ukrainian People - 18, National Movement - 15, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 2, “Rebirth” - 11, “Reforms and Orders” - 14, non-fractional - 3. [[United]] I don't think it's a big deal, we live without culture, we eat without a cultural decree, unfortunately. Yeah, let's see, the ruling is off. We've already voted three times, you see there are no prospects. The ruling is off. We're looking at the Ukrainian National Property Fund Act with the President's proposals, registration number 7364. Dear colleagues, this is our re-examination, we have once considered with you, we have decided to return. Perhaps if there is no insistence on reporting? The committee insists? Committee, please. And, well, first of all, the foundation here is not defined as a reporter, the reporter is Minust and the committee. Please, please, Stanislav Ivanovich, and then we'll ask the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u58	Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Gurenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your weight to something. We were all witnesses as recently as not only Kiev, but the whole of Ukraine was struck by an affair, the discovery of the so - called investment pyramid in housing. We're all sitting in this room, and a lot of people are listening to us, and they know it's just the tip of the iceberg. Today organized crime has taken over the area of housing under, the distribution of construction sites, sorry, under the construction of housing in many cities and areas of our Ukraine, about what is being done with the distribution of land under Kiev, everyone is also aware. They say that there is no legislation, no imperfect legislation, I have to tell you that this is done either by ignorance or by people who cover up their crimes. For, for three years now, the law that we passed with you, the Law on Registration of Rights and Liabilities for Real Estate, has been blocked. This law lays the foundation for all the earth’s equipment with immovable property, the introduction of a single state load register and rights. If this register were available, no left-wing crime of land would have been possible. For three years we have fought for this law, and we have been associating with the presidents, with the prime ministers, and I would like to emphasize, especially with Mr. Kinach in all his positions. And all of this is in the ministers of justice, in the former and present ones who do not want to open the way for the introduction of this law. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about that because for eight years now, you and I can't let the Supreme Council settle property relations, order legal property relations. We have not been able to accept for two occasions the Law on Communal Property Management, but from the billions of municipal property that has been accumulated by the Soviet authorities and the Soviet authorities, there are still copies. This bill that we're looking at today, it's aimed at what kind of order we can get, and the President's vetoing it. The bill is consistent with the Constitution, the bill cannot be rejected on the basis of what you see, there is no law "Pro Kabmen", there will be a law "Pro Kabmin" – let's agree on these two laws. I'm asking all the MPs to support the committee's decision, to overcome the Presidential veto, and I think it's going to be a reinforcement of those statements that we made here today, that we're all state-owned.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u59	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. Do you have a wish, Valentina Petrovna? Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you, those who have delegated me to the head of the State Property Fund. I'm working today as Head of the Fund, and I want to say that not only did we do the work that you've been assigned to do on inventory, but we've created registers of state property, and we're currently working on municipal property registers. If this work is to be done, it is necessary to have a legislative base today. I am well aware that today we have begun a pretentious work on the return of objects to government property. As soon as the Fund began to give proper order, today, in fact, the work of the Maintenance Fund is completely blocked. The unsigned fund of the holding fund is still unsigned. I can't go to court because of one thing: I don't have any funding. Today, I cannot send people directly to check on investment commitments in businesses because I have nothing to pay for. In fact, it's going to be completely blocked by the State Property Fund, and I understand very well that it's only because of one thing: that the State Property Fund doesn't have control, that it doesn't have government property, or that it doesn't have the proper system. I understand very well that this is a political issue today. But there's no other way out: either we're statesmen with you and we're dealing with all the property that we have left, or we're just today, without funding the State Property Fund, it might be that the entire computer system that accounts for government property could be shut down because I don't even have the funds to maintain the electronic communications system itself. Believe me, it's just not possible to work under these conditions. I understand very well that today we have a political crisis and a governance crisis. But today, not just between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, but as a result, the entire Ukrainian people will suffer. Because the State Property Fund today stands for the property that has been acquired by generations of people, for we are responsible for the property of all the Ukrainian people. We're all going to the elections, we need to understand perfectly whether we've saved something else that we can keep and that we're going to hand over to people. I'm asking you to support this bill, allow me to work for the State Property Fund today. I'm asking you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, in the speech of our committee of profile, the presentation of the State Property Fund was a risky but fair assessment of the state of things in which we live. Well, I don't know who makes such a recommendation to the President that if there's no one law, there's no other law. I do not rule out that when we consider the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, lawyers will write to him universally recognized, and especially the European scale that cannot be signed by the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, because there is no Law on the Fund of Property. In our kingdom-state, unfortunately, everything could be. And this is the cry of the soul of the one who is our executive authority, if you believe the words, and I think we have no reason not to believe the words of the State Property Fund that no one wants to regulate. Why won't he? Because if it is not regulated by law, it is governed by the temporary government. Let's mobilize and help the fund work under the law. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:00]] For-49 We supported the President's proposal for a rejection. So there was no support for the offer. I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee on economic policy and governance of the national economy, property and investment on the adoption of a veto law, the Ukrainian Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Registration number 7364. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:52]] For-103 The factions. Areas 0, Communists 56, Block Timoshenko 5, People's Party 0, Our Ukraine 4, Socialists 28, National Block, Social Democrats - Zero, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, People's Movement - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 1, Rebirth - 4, Reforms and Orders - 0, non-fractional - 2. Stanisław Ivanovich, please. Gurenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. I have a proposal and a request. The request to publish in the “Voice of Ukraine” the vote, especially in the context of today's statements on taking care of the state of Ukraine, I think the voters should draw conclusions. And secondly, I'd like to ask, if it's up to you and the decision of the Hall, to have the committee of profile prepare an urgent draft ruling with the Holding Fund, a draft Supreme Council decision on financial matters on the basis of a bill. Because it's really impossible to work like that. It is simply inconceivable that the State Property Fund should not have a corrosive asset today! At the same time, as we know, billions are expected from privatization. This is again, so it's proposed to privatise to the left, again to some "Mitalu", again to some one there, I won't call it, the Russian enterprise and from my own company to my own. And the holding fund, although I'm not a supporter of privatization. I would ask for such an assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u63	Yeah, well, about the Voice of Ukraine, let's now define the hall, so it's not so that it's our decision with you. And as for the commission of the committee, let's assume that the Committee of Stanislav Ivanovich, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Questions, Stanislav Ivanovich may not be necessary, but unfortunately, our decision with you will be only a decision, because the government is governed by only one Act on the State Budget, and it will send us further with our decision. Yes, you do. All right, make a decision, we'll look at it, cook with the fund, prepare the committee. All right, prepare a verdict. Who, in order to publish the results of our vote in the Voice of Ukraine, please vote. [[12:03:41]] Z-87 Dear colleagues! It is clear that if we had 230 votes, 230 would be worth publishing. If we have 104 votes, that's clear. Then we agreed, the committee prepares an urgent draft decision, we'll try to fix something. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on List of Objects is under consideration. We agreed to a break, we took a break, sorry, we ate our questions, announcements, and so forth, for there are 45 minutes, and we are an hour and a half. We'll work harder. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Lists of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, on VAT, the "Nicopolian Ferrospion Plant" with Presidential proposals dated 20.02.2006, registration number 9041. Please, Romanyuk Sergey Andriyovich, First Deputy Minister of Economics. Get ready for Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Act "On List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized" adopted by the Supreme Council on 9 February this year cannot be signed by the President on such grounds. The law proposes to include in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization the shares that belong to the State in the statutory fund of the VAT “Nicopolian Ferrospion Plant”. This VAT under the main activity does not belong to property rights that are not privatised under part two of article five of the Ukrainian Privatisation Act. In addition, the Kiev Court of Appeal of July 25th of last year found that contracts for the sale of VAT shares amounting to 25 per cent and 25 per cent plus one share were invalid and were obliged to return them to state ownership. According to the legislation, when contracts are broken down, the sale of privatisation objects is due to the failure to fulfil their conditions or to their being declared null and void by the buyers on the basis of a court decision, the costs paid for the object of privatization are reimbursed. This year’s State Budget does not provide for these funds. On the basis of what has been said, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On the List of Property Rights Objects Not Privatized”, the President proposes to reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u65	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u66	The honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment at its meeting on 7 March, considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Law on Change in the Law of Ukraine "On Listing Property Rights Objects Not Privatized" on VAT for the "Nicopolian Ferrospoly Plant" which is scheduled to be included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatisation, shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of VAT "Nicopolly Ferospoly Plant". The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the prescribed law in view of the fact that, according to its type of activity, the “Nicopolian Ferrospoline Plant” does not refer to subjects of state ownership law that are not privatised under part two of the fifth article of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. In addition, the Office of Ministers of Ukraine, as the sole authority for the administration of public property, was not involved in the issue of listing non-privatisation of state property. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it appropriate to support the law. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the proposal by the President of Ukraine and to adopt the prescribed law re-adopted on 9 February 2006 by two thirds of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition. But looking objectively at the situation, the committee also suggests that if we fail to overcome the veto, the committee proposes a new revision: to ban the privatization of the state-owned stock package for 2006-2007 in the statutory fund of the VAT “Nicopolian Ferrosphrodite Plant”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u67	Yes, dear colleagues, the situation is clear. I think each of you realizes that this factory and the events around the plant have so surprised not only Ukrainian society, but we're surprising the whole world, let's make a wise decision. And wisdom will lie, I think, in that it doesn't belong to either one, or the other, or the third, or the tenth group, because the next day there will be courts. Some will buy and others will repurchase. Let's leave it in the hands of the state, the more the damage this factory doesn't bring to the state, the more it generates. Then let it be in the hands of the state and let the state, we all use it. And then we'll put an end to all speculation. Let us first vote, indeed, on the President's proposal to reject the law. I'm voting on the President's motion to reject the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized with regard to the VAT "Nicopolese Ferrospion Plant". I'd like to make a statement. 9041 registration number. [[12:10:04]] For-42 I think we did the right thing. Now, dear fellows, let's mobilize! Let's really, let's do a good job at the end of our office: let's leave this factory to the people. I am voting on the proposal to overcome the veto on the President's proposal to amend the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, registration number 9041. [[on VAT “Nicopolian Ferrospile Plant]] Please vote. Vote. For the good of the world. [[12:11:05]] For 244 The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 58, Communists – 55, Block of Timoshenko – 0, National Party – 38, "Our Ukraine" – 2, Social Party – 29 National Block of Lithuania – 22, Social-Democratic Party – 19, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, People's Movement of Ukraine – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 1, Rebirth Party – 10, Reforms and Order – 0, "Afterfraction" – 9. [[Well, waiting for someone else was hard.]] I think it's clear who supports who. Yes, there was an offer. Let us take any action to ensure that this plant does not embarrass Ukraine and the trade around it. I propose to enact this law in a new edition to prohibit the privatization of the Nicolaus Ferrospoly plant during the years 2006-2007. Please vote. Not out of voice is a committee proposal. And, government officials, please don't run the Supreme Council. I'm not coming to the government. If you do that, I'll ask you to leave the hall. Vote. [[12:12:34]] For 271 The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" - 58, Communists - 54, Block of Timoshenko - 21, People's Party - 35, "Our Ukraine" - 2, Socialists - 30, National Block of Lithuania - 22, Social Democrats - 17, People's Party - 2, People's Movement - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 1, "Rebirth" - 14, "Reforms and Orders" - 8, non-fractional - 7. [[United]] I think we'll have no shame in making a similar decision. Thank you. The Ukrainian Act on Holding Companies in Ukraine is being considered with proposals from the President. I've told you ten times about the break. That we spoke in statements, speeches, and the like. Ukraine Act "On Holding Companies in Ukraine" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 2 March 2006. Registration number 3355. Head of Semenjuk Valentina Petrovna Foundation. Get ready for Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u68	Honorable National MPs. In connection with the adoption on February 7, 2006, of the Ukrainian Supreme Council of the Law on Holding Companies, he was considered by the President, and the reasons for which the above - mentioned bill could not be signed are suggested. According to the law, the holding company accumulates stakes of pies, which account for 60 percent or more of the statutory corporate fund. This is an article in a bill. Such an approach does not correspond to part three of article 126 of the Code of Lords, according to which there is a decisive dependence among associated enterprises if it is established between undertakings by the majority of the statutory or congregational control firm or other management bodies or the subsidiary, such as the control package. In accordance with paragraph 59 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Privatisation Programme, a controlling package of shares is considered to be more than 50 per cent of the statutory fund of open shareholders, which allows a legal or natural person to have a decisive impact on the activity of the entity concerned. Such an approach is enshrined in article 22 of the master’s code. In addition, it should be borne in mind that, according to the State privatization programme, public ownership of stock packages of 25 or 50 per cent of the statutory open shareholding fund plus one share is being secured. This is the kind of stock that was created by the State or, depending on its participation, most of the holding companies that, if adopted, remain outside the scope of its regulation. I mean, there are 36 holding companies today. Moreover, a significant position precludes the possibility of further state-owned holding companies using public-owned shares in the privatisation process. Under the law, a package of shares, particles or rations, or other property transferred to the statutory fund of a state holding company, is owned by this company, this is article 6. Article 11, paragraph 1.2, provides for the final position of holding companies, including state companies, to manage holdings, corporate ones. shares. This cannot be accepted, since it creates conditions for the alienation of state property in a different way than the Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of state property. This may result in uncontrolled alienation of the packets. This does not correspond to article 22 of the Master Code as defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u69	Yes, complete, but more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u70	Okay. On this basis, I can say that the remarks made by the President are proposed to be made in a new edition and the comments made in the comparative table of the Economic Policy Committee can be accepted and accepted in a new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u71	Thank you. Yes, please, Philip Philipovich Budzigan of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u72	Honourable National Deputies, Ukraine's draft Act on Holding Companies, registration number 3355, introduced the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, adopted the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole in February this year. The law aims to determine the general principles for the functioning of holding companies in Ukraine, including state-owned holding companies, as well as the characteristics of their establishment, activities and liquidation. But on March 2, 2006, the President of Ukraine took advantage of his veto and returned the law to the Supreme Council with his clear proposals. In particular, the President of Ukraine proposes to make a number of changes to Ukraine's law, which are aimed at implementing the provisions of this law in accordance with the Ukrainian Master Code and other Ukrainian laws. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the Chief Legal Authority have similarly drawn their conclusions, the content of which comes to the partial consideration of the President's proposals. But the Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments has decided to take fully into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine and to adopt legislation in a new edition with the full consideration of the President of Ukraine. And so, let's see how things are going to continue with this law, we're taking fully into account the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u73	From what? For reasons, please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u74	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, National Block of Lithuania I have questions for my colleagues, maybe they're rhetorical, I don't quite understand what's going on. This bill of its time was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine accepted it, and then it is promised. What is promised, a project of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? I want someone to figure out what's going on, whether the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the President's Institute are working in different legislative fields, whether they're opponents, competitors, etc. I don't understand what's going on, I'm asking you to explain, Adam Ivanovich, maybe you, I don't know who.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u75	It's very simple to explain. This project was not implemented by today’s government. Do you still need an explanation? Please. That's what I think we've done right in the Constitution to make sure there's no temporaryity. That one government was unable to come to write laws, as another does, and another does not like the laws that the predecessors have written. That's why they're promising them. The larchik opens very easily. I propose to do wisely how the Supreme Council can do this, let's take into account the President's proposals, they're improving the law, and that's what the PIC agrees with. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Holding Companies in a new edition. [[taking into account the President's proposals]] Please vote. [[12:20:40]] For 219 This is what we heard in the debates and in the sectional debates. Let's mobilize. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the Amendment Act before, more faithfully, the Holding Company Act in Ukraine in a new edition, taking into account all the President's proposals. Please vote. [[12:21:19]] For 285 Thank you. By the way, I've just been given information that the government of Yehanurov has confirmed that such a law is necessary. Different teams are different approaches. The law was passed in a new order. The Act of Ukraine is being considered "To amend the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service" with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 07.03. [[new editor]] 2006. Registration No. 8047. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. On February 8, we passed the Law “On Amendments to the Law on General Military Duty and Military Service”, and the new Law was approved. The President returned three comments for re-examination: two of them are editorial and one of the main ones is to reduce the amount of monetary reward in the event of injury, the injury from “3 to 10 years” to “3 to 5 years”. [[may not be too far off editorially.]] The Committee supports the President's remarks and considers it possible to agree with them and adopt the Law in a new edition, taking into account the observations of the Legal Authority, the legal administration read this law quite carefully. They don't carry, they don't change essentially the law, but they're more precise. Because the formula proposed by the President includes law enforcement agencies in military formations, the State Special Transportation Service, we have corrected the law. And to enact this law in a new edition, taking into account the comments of the President and our Chief Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u77	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Have a seat. The Ministry of Defence also does not deny the adoption of the law in the new edition. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ We support the position of the committee. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u78	Yes. Okay. I am voting for the adoption of a new edition, taking into account the proposals of the President of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. Please take a friendly vote. New edition, yes. [[12:23:47]] For 237 Thank you. The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Laws and Legislative Activities is being considered with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 10.01.2006, registration number 0894. Lydia Mikolayovna Gorbunova, please Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u79	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Law on Laws and Legislative Activities, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 December 2005, was returned by the President of Ukraine on 10 January 2006 with a proposal for a re-examination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine due to the inadequacy of a number of its provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, conceptual imperfection and the presence of internal conflicts, repeated and so on. I'm not going to call all the President's remarks, I think they're familiar to you, and I'm just going to stop at the basics. In particular, Article 4 of this Law establishes the constitutional regulation of social relations. However, according to article 8 of Ukraine’s basic law, the Constitution has the highest legal force, and laws are adopted on the basis of it. And for this reason there was also a decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which noted that the Constitution of Ukraine, as the Basic Law of the State by its legal nature, was an act of institutional authority belonging to the people. And the law and the acts established by the Constitution of the Ukrainian legislature. This leads to their subordination with regard to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the Constitution of Ukraine is fundamental to laws, not vice versa. And any law cannot define a list of issues that are governed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Also part two of article 8 of the Law proposes that a nationwide referendum announced by the National Initiative, the President of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, may adopt a law on issues defined by the law on the All-Ukrainian referendum. Such an approach does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines the principles of national will through referendum. In particular, article 74 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that a referendum is not allowed only on tax, budget and amnesty laws, which, by the way, are also provided for in this law. And any other restrictions on the issues that may be raised in the U.S. referendum are not provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, any bill other than the one mentioned in article 74 of the Basic Law of Ukraine may not be subject to the definition of the subject matter of an all-Ukrainian referendum. In most cases, the law also limits the adoption of laws and the determination of the conditions for their entry into force, and in some cases it expressly provides for a separate law to be enacted. This is, for example, part 2 of article 16, fourth of article 26, and others. This does not correspond to part 5 of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the law is to be established in the law itself. The law also produces numerous comments because it does not meet the requirements of the legislative technique. It has internal contradictions, repetitions. Individual laws deal with matters that are not subject to the law. This applies, for example, to the adoption of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and its provisions. With regard to Ukraine’s international treaties, the form of the adoption of decisions on application by the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u80	Yes, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u81	The president proposes that the Ukrainian Act on Laws and Legislative Activities should be repealed as one that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, and that it does not allow the law to be strengthened in the system of legislation, order and improve the quality of laws. Please support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u82	Thank you. From the Committee of Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u83	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! As we know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 22, 2005, for the third time, I am stressing the adoption of the Law in the new edition of the Law and Legislative Activity. Unfortunately, however, on January 10, 2006, the President of Ukraine returned the law for reconsideration by parliament with proposals that had just been made. The Committee on Legal Policy considered, at its meeting, the submission and comments of the President, particularly with regard to the repeal of the law, and decided that it could not agree to this, since the law was important to ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's legislative activities were properly ensured as a higher legislative body. The comments made in some part are not conceptual in nature, and the point is that the proposal to repeal the law is still quite radical. In this regard, honourable colleagues, the committee, having studied the President's comments and suggestions, considers it necessary to take into account the comments in articles 3, 4, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 19, 24, 30, 34, 45 and 42 of the Law and Legislative Activities Act. In this regard, the committee concludes that there is reason to adopt the law in the new edition. Thank you for your attention. Naturally, the committee would also propose to overcome the veto, but it seems that this proposal is not real right now, given the state of voting and the number in the hall. Thus, the committee requests the adoption of the law in the new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, on the one hand, really, the law on laws and legislation is necessary, but on the other hand, we should regulate all of this in our domestic law, which is the Rules. But as long as we don't lose the initiative of the people who have been preparing this law, let's support it in a new edition, taking into account almost all the President's proposals. I'm voting for acceptance. No, I'm sorry. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Law and Legislative Activity Act. I'd like to make up my mind. Deviation. [[12:31:02]] For-48 The offer is not supported. Whoever didn't make it will vote next time. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt the Law on Laws and Legislative Activities Act in a new edition. Registration number 0894. [[12:31:36]] For 202 Who's in charge of coming back? [[12:32:00]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, don't worry. The great tribulation that will not occur in this law will not occur, for all these things will be taken into account in the Rules. Maybe it's better that there's a Rules, and there aren't dozens of laws, so we don't run around. The legislative procedure is clearly laid down in that rule that we will be adopting with you tomorrow. It's all said there. It's off-limits. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings with Presidential Proposals of February 3. Registration number 4085. Lisovenko Vitaly Vasilovich. Prepare Bondarchuku Alexandre.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on January 12th of the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On State Guarantees for Restoration of Savings of Ukrainian Citizens" cannot be signed in the form it was adopted by the President in view of the fact that a number of provisions of this law conflict with the current Constitution and certain laws of Ukraine. Yes, the proposed revision of part 2 of article 6 of this Act on the determination of the total payments per year in the budget of at least 1 per cent of GDP contradicts part 2 of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which determines that exclusively the State Budget Act defines any expenditure incurred by the State on social needs, their size, their purpose, and so on. The drafting of part 3 of the same article 6 of the adopted law on the direction of privatisation proceeds, some dividends on shares held by the State, the rental of State property, and so forth, is contrary to the article. Part 2 of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Part 5 of article 6 of the adopted law suggests that special taxes should be imposed and that they should be sent for compensatory expenses. Pay it off. This is contrary, in particular, to the Budget Code, where the budget system should be. It is determined that it will operate in full terms, according to which all revenue from the State budget comes into the State budget and then from the State budget costs are made. Regrettably, the law provides special taxes outside the budget to direct these payments. Article 13 of Part 8 of the Code also prohibits the creation of non-budgetary funds of any kind, and this law is essentially proposed by such a scheme. Also, the situation in question contains mutually exclusive concepts, since non-budgetary funds cannot be clearly budgeted at the same time. So the President proposes that some things should be excluded from the law that was passed, namely, the second sentence of paragraph three and paragraphs four through twelve, which is to exclude and adopt the law in a new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u86	Thank you. Have a seat. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Bondarczuk Alexander
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u87	Dear President, the People's Deputies! Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. You have already heard, President Yushchenko once again vetoed a bill that identified specific sources of financing for the return of valuable contributions to the population. The President cannot, he says, sign the bill because the Constitution allegedly contains article 95, which determines that all public expenditure on public needs is determined by the State budget. Note: six months ago, President Yushchenko was not prevented from signing the Cabinet of Ministers' decree, then the Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, to raise the salaries of ministers, their deputies, and other officials five times. He signed the decree, works the decree, works: wages have been raised for ministers since mid-year. It's done in the back, so to speak. And it's okay. And when you return people's money, the labor contributions, you know, Yushchenko gets caught up in some sort of trickery, it's good for us. And one day I'm going out to that rostrum at this gathering, I've counted it 12 times. Twelve bills we send with you, we vote for them. I can list them: 4085, 4405, 3762, 3524, 4295, 4295-1, 4475, 75-1, 75-2, 75-3, 6053, 8059 and the veto, permanent veto. What does the President want? The President wants the bill on State guarantees for the return of valuable contributions to remain in force. I will remind you of the substance of the current drafting of this bill. It actually says only one thing, yes, there's a debt of 132 billion bracelets, and that's it. How do I get it back? For what time? It's not defined. Therefore, if we want this problem, which is of great concern to most of the people living in Ukraine, to be resolved once, not after 250, 300 years, if we continue to settle at this pace, we must overcome the veto that the President has imposed today. As a result of the vote, I think our voters will be able to clarify their positions before 26 March. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, here for clarification. Yes, the President doesn't sign the Cabinet's decrees. The Cabinet of Ministers' rulings are signed by the head of government. But the President, according to the Constitution, has the right to cancel any decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's for clarification. Dear colleagues, we have heard. Then I'm voting on the President's first proposal. There's two of them. Who's to take into account the President's proposal to exclude the second sentence of paragraph three in an article of the second law, where the point is to take into account the savings in the State budget, the return of the citizens' savings in one percent of the gross domestic product. The president is suggesting that we rule it out. I'm voting on this proposal from the President. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:40:13]] For-30 Not supported. I am voting on the President's second proposal, which proposes in article 2 of the law to exclude paragraphs 4, 12, which lists how much percentage, where and from which revenues go to return savings. I'm betting on the President's motion to exclude these provisions from the law. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:40:55]] For-21 I think it's right. Yes, then I propose, I ask you to mobilise, the proposal of a professional committee to overcome the veto on the President's proposal for the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Please vote. [[12:41:35]] For 236 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” - 58, Communists - 55, Block of Timoshenko - 17, People's Party - 32, “Our Ukraine” - 0, Socialists - 29, National Block of Lithuania - 22, Social Democrats - 8, Ukrainian People's Party - 7, National Movement of Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, Rebirth - 2 “Reforms and Orders” - 0, non-fractional - 6. [[United]] Veto is not supported. What's the committee's offer? Bondarchuka microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u89	The committee's proposal to withdraw the bill. I think that in the next assembly, a faction of communists and other factions will again introduce similar bills, which is the first position. And second, to publish the results of the vote in the Voice of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u90	Are we going to consider the President's proposal or not? No, it's not. Clearly, the committee doesn't propose that. So the law is rejected, unfortunately, too bad, because people have been expecting such a gift from us. I think it would be wise if we had the will to overcome the President's veto. The people saw, they heard what factions supported, who didn't want to return the savings. Act of Ukraine amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Sectoral Academy of Sciences and the Status of their Property Complex, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 03.10.2005. Registration number 7037. Matwijczyk Vladimir Makarovich, best friend of the Supreme Council. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u91	The Honourable Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished National Deputies, the Law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is to be supplemented by article 5 of the Law on the Specificities of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences, the Branch Academy of Sciences and the Status of Their Property Complex. According to which institutions, organizations, and enterprises in the knowledge of the National Academy of Sciences and Industrial Sciences are independently managed by incomes and other incomes derived from the provision of paid services by law. This includes the right to open current and deposit accounts in banks, to save funds in deposit accounts. The law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. The provisions of the adopted law are intended to be extended to both accounting organizations and businesses whose economic activities are regulated by the Ukrainian Code of Lordship and to nonprofit institutions. That is, the budgetary institutions that, according to Article 2 of the Code of Budgets, are held at the expense of the corresponding State budget or local budgets. Therefore, it is important to take into account that granting non-profit institutions and organizations designated by law the right to engage in economic activities with a view to earning profits will mean depriving them of their non-profit status, which will result in the loss of appropriate benefits for budgetary institutions and organizations. In doing so, it should be noted that most of the scientific institutions and organizations known to the Academy are fiscal. In accordance with article 29, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Budget Code, Ukraine’s government budget revenue includes income from salaries for services provided by budgetary institutions held at the expense of the state budget. In doing so, it should be noted that according to article 11, paragraph 16, of the Law on the State Budget 2006, the sources of the creation of the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine in 2006 are part of the revenue that comes from the budget institutions, including the Academy, which are maintained at the expense of the State Budget. Thus, the introduction of the above rule of the Law will reduce the income of the special budget fund. However, the Law that came upon the signature did not determine the sources of such losses. This violates the principle of budgetary balance proclaimed in the third article of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. As well as the position of article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. Moreover, the position regarding its entry into force from the date of publication is not in line with part three of article 27 of the Code of Budgets. In the light of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes the Act “On Amendments to Article 5 of the Law on the Specificities of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences and Branch Academys” to be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine, this will benefit the budgetary institutions of the Academy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u92	Thank you. We're going to believe that that's what's going to happen. Acting Head of the Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky Committee
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. Everything Vladimir Makarovich said is true. Only when the scientific institution does the job, sells the job and earns some profit, is it able to use it for its own development. And the budget can't plan this revenue in the form of an add-on to the special budget fund. Because the budget for the following year does not know in principle what work can be done through scientific research. So it's basically about what's not there. Dear friends, if we don't encourage scientific development into production, we will never make progress in our production. The point is that the State institutions of the Academy of Sciences and Branch Academys are allowed to manage the costs they receive from the introduction of scientific development into production. The law proposes, the objection is proposed, and cabinet number 3275 says that these funds should be used for public treasury purposes. Next. The Treasury has the right to deposit this money, and the Ministry of Finance has the right to manage it as it pleases. This is wrong. And that's why the committee approved the bill. The committee believes that the President is not fully informed about how innovation policy is to be developed in the middle of the state. The committee is asking to defeat the President's veto and vote in favour of this bill. To do this, however, we need 300 votes. So I'm asking you very much to focus, to gather, and yet we voted in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u94	Yes. Dear colleagues, let's be clear. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Branch Academy of Sciences and the Status of their Property Complex, registration number 7037. [[12:50:03]] For-73 The President's proposal is not supported. I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee to overcome the veto on the President's proposal to amend article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the sectoral Academy of Sciences and the status of their property complex. Registration number 7037. Please take a friendly vote. [[12:50:48]] For 204 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 53, Communists – 49, Block of Timoshenko – 23, People's Party – 15, “Our Ukraine” – 5, Socialists – 25, National Block of Lithuania – 20, Social Democrats – 5, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, Rebirth Party – 4, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 1. [[United]] Well, it's clear what fate awaits us from the veto. Igor Rafailovich, here is a comparative table where the President's proposals are taken into account. Can I bet, given the President's suggestions? Does the committee object? Because there are proposals in the comparative table to take into account the President's proposals. Do you mind? I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of the Legal Regime of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Industrial Academy of Sciences and the Status of their Property Complex in the new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. Please vote. It's a new edition. Then the government imposes the veto. [[12:52:25]] For 282 In the new edition, the law has been passed with respect to, once again, all the President's proposals. I wonder what the President will do. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on the production, trade in medical equipment and medical supplies, with proposals by the President dated February 27, this year, registration number 6280. Mr. Andriy Viktorovich, head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, please. I'll be ready for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! On February 7th, the Supreme Council approved the Act on the Amendment to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on the production, trade in medical technology and medical devices, introduced by the People's Deputies Klimenko and Sergeienko. It should be pointed out that the adoption of the law has met with a very negative response from the owners and has caused numerous appeals to the President of Ukraine to justify the inadequacy of its entry into force. On the basis of a thorough and comprehensive analysis of the situation, the head of State asked Parliament to reject the prescribed law, such as that which led to the excessive regulatory influence of the State on the relevant sphere of economic activity. The following arguments were the basis for making such a decision. First. This law introduces the licensing of a new type of activity, but for the time being, the Law on the licensing of certain types of business, which is basic in the field of licensing, already defines the need to obtain a license for the manufacture, wholesale and retail of medicinal products. That is, if it becomes legally effective, there will be the imposition of the concept of medical devices and devices. The complexity and inability to distinguish them will only result in duplication of the functions of the authorities, excessive State intervention in economic activity, which threatens to increase abuse in the medical field. In fact, international experience also confirms this. Yes, the introduction of licensing for this type of activity in Russia has led to a rapid increase in corruption in the medical sector in the absence of any positive results. Therefore, federal law 80 in July last year’s licensing and production, and trade in medicine and medicine, were cancelled. It is worth noting that the State is currently using a complete set of regulatory mechanisms to influence manufacturers and importers of medical products. Yes, these products are subject to mandatory government registration. To control their compliance with technical conditions and standards, there is a system of compulsory certification of medical devices. In addition, compulsory sanitary expertise is being carried out. The licensing of the listed activities is inappropriate and will only result in excessive influence by a state that is perceived to be excessive. Secondly, the introduction of a licence for a given farm activity will result in additional costs for operators, resulting in a corresponding increase in the cost of medical equipment and medical supplies. This will have a negative impact on consumers of such products.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u96	Yes, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u97	It should be borne in mind that consumers of such funds are, above all, health - care budgets. An increase in the cost of medical equipment will result in additional costs for these facilities and thus in additional budgetary costs, which are a violation of article 27 of the Code of Budgets, since the law does not provide for the sources of these expenses. In view of the foregoing, it is proposed that the law be rejected. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u98	Philip Philipovich Budzigan from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, on our committee, when the bill was being considered, this whole argument that you just heard from the rapporteur sounded the same. Yet, in the interests of the nation’s health, as a result of the health of every Ukrainian family, we decided on the committee to overcome the veto of the President. This is an extremely important area of the country’s vitality and, as a result of this decision of the committee, of overcoming the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u100	Thank you. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on manufacturing, trade in medical technology and medical devices. Registration number 6280. The President's proposal for a rejection. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:58:26]] For-48 Not supported. I would like to vote on the proposal of a professional committee to pass the veto on the President's proposal on the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on manufacturing, trade in medical equipment and medical supplies. Registration number 6280, please vote. [[12:59:16]] For 221 Yeah, what's the committee's opinion? It's gonna be okay. The law is regarded as being rejected. The negative result is also the result for those who did not vote for it. It's under review. Honorable colleagues, especially for those who took a break and came and didn't hear what I said. You and I already took a break when the announcements were made. Don't ask for a second break, the more there'll be a break soon. The Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[except taxi]] Registration number 8681. Please, Kachur Pavel Stepanovich, Acting Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing. Get ready for Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u101	Honourable National Deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 January 2006, the Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity can not be signed by the President of Ukraine, on the basis of the following. First, for legal reasons. The Supreme Council's decision does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine for the exercise of its powers under the Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. The authorizations for the establishment and modification of prices and tariffs under the Basic Law of Ukraine for the powers of the Supreme Council are not limited. The proposed legal solution does not comply with article 10 of the Law on Prices and Prices, part three of article 31 of the Law on Housing and Utilities, article 28 of the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, which provides for the establishment of tariffs for the payment of utility, transportation services provided by enterprises and local property organizations of the relevant local community, is one of the most self-sustaining powers of the implementing bodies of rural, rural and urban councils. It should be noted that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in 1999 has already recognised that it does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the temporary prohibition of rising prices and tariffs for residential and utility services and public transport services provided to Ukrainian citizens. The second argument is for economic reasons. The adoption of the law will further exacerbate the financial situation of housing and utility enterprises, the technical deterioration of their core funds, including water and sanitation and heat networks. In particular, we estimate that only water - based networks will account for about 2 billion dollars that are not reimbursed to anyone. And third, for social reasons. Social protection for underprivileged citizens is achieved through the implementation of the housing grant program. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the law adopted does not apply at all to low-income citizens. They're protected. First of all, this law applies to those who are able to pay, but who do not want to pay, and their municipal payments would be either to the State Budget or to the damage to utilities. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Law on Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services other than taxis, to be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this argument, I would also like to refer to you from the Association of Cities of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for support of this proposal by the President. You know all the city heads are going to the polls now. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u102	Thank you. Paul Stepanovich, if we gave the money from the “Criminals” to your ministry, could we hold the moratorium? Right. Please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, you have all listened carefully to the argument. And I'm going to tell you specific figures and facts. So on January 10, 2006, when we voted in favour of the bill in the first reading, we voted 386 people's deputies. When we voted in favour of the bill of 19 January on the moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, the public transport services, apart from taxis, were adopted on second reading and, as a general rule, voted 339 people's deputies. So you see what situation, the February 10th bill, is more faithful, even the law that was passed to the President has returned to the Supreme Council. The Economic Policy Committee considered the President’s proposals. The president is proposing to reject the bill, and you've heard the argument is that it can be found both legal and economic and all. The chief scientific and expert office of the apparatus similarly says that it is possible to agree with the President's proposals, but the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the proposals of the President of Ukraine and adopt the prescribed law again in an editorial opinion adopted on 19 January 2006 by two thirds of the votes cast. This is the position of the committee. I would like to remind you that on our committee there are representatives of all MP groups and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u104	And that's true. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and the consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services other than taxis, registration number 8681. The President's proposal, vote for rejection. [[13:06:25]] For-40 Dear colleagues, let's beat the veto. I am proposing to the veto committee on the President's proposal on the Ukrainian Law "On moratoriums on higher prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas and electricity, public transport services other than taxis" with proposals, i.e. overcoming the veto at the President's proposal, registration number 8681. Please vote. Ten days left before the election. [[13:07:15.]] For 222 The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 52, “Communists” – 56, “Block of Timoshenko” – 22, “National Party” – 23, “Our Ukraine” – 2, “Socialists” – 28, “National Block of Lithuania” – 22, “Social-Democratic Party” – 8, “Ukrainian People” – 3, “National Movement” and “Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs” – zero, “Rebirth” – 4, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, non-fractional – 2. [[united]] Is there anything we can take in the new edition? I propose a new edition, a moratorium for 2006. Please vote. Take down the vote. A duck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I understand that before the election you are counting on how much is left, but believe me, our electors are getting a good look at what the economy is and your vote in the room also shows that part of the vote is being taken care of. I have a request, Adam Ivanovich, not to put in a bill that is not in order of the day, which was not going through the procedure, because it is a really important economic law. And then we're going to do one thing on the one hand right now, and then we're going to hear about the state of housing-communal farming and we're going to be doing a lot of agitation here in the hall, how we want to support housing-communal agriculture. Please take this bill off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u106	We'll take the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm voting on the chairman's proposal. Who is in favour of adopting the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on Raising Prices and Tariffs for Housing Services and Domesticated Natural Gas, Electricity, Public Transport Services, except Taxis, in a new edition, to ban this in 2006? Please vote. The same bill with the President's proposals in the new edition. There are our proposals. [[13:09:29]] For 245 Thank you. The law was passed in a new order. And you'll have a real veto. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 53, “Communists” – 56, Block of Timoshenko - 32, People's Party – 34, Our Ukraine – 0, Socialists – 27, National Block of Lithuania – 22, Social Democrats – 12, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, Revival – 4, Reforms and Order – 0, non-fractional – 4. [[United]] Who, in order to publish these results in the Voice of Ukraine, please vote. [[13:10:43]] For 211 Show me the factions. Who's to go back to this before the vote? [[13:11:12]] For 236 We're back. Who, in order to publish the results of the vote of the Law on the Moratorium of Prices in the “Voice of Ukraine”, please vote. [[13:11:35]] For 242 I'll calm the Pabat down. We voted differently. You're just worried about going to the rostrum. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 31 January 2006 is under consideration. [[new editor]] Registration number 7602. Reported Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics Pabat Viktor Alexiyovich. Prepare Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill, prepared by the Ukrainian National MP, takes into account the requirements of the WTO, which I stress is the use of sanitary and sanitary facilities. Sanitary measures, and the Health Code for Ground Animals of the International and Medical Bureau. The Law contains 16 chapters, 109 articles against 11 chapters, and 40 articles in the law in force. The introduction of more detailed and transparent requirements for international legislation will help to boost trade between WTO member countries. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill contains a number of provisions that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine has made proposals for the implementation of such differences, namely, that the State Department of Veterans, the government government of the State Department of Agrarian Policy, is currently serving as the Ministry of Agriculture. There's no reason for it to be reorganized into the central executives of the Minagropolitics. This position is supported by all the district authorities of veterinary medicine in Ukraine. It should also be noted that in almost all parts of the world, national veterinary authorities are part of the Ministry of Agriculture. We support the deletion from section 1 of article 60 of the law of the word “created on the basis of the Central State Veterinary Laboratory” and part two. These issues can be settled through the authorization of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Third. Part 8 of article 60 of the Law obliges owners or authorized market administrations to provide free of charge for the use of state laboratories in veterinary medicine and to create appropriate conditions for their work. Minagropolitics agree to remove this situation, just as Article 41 of the Constitution provides for interference in entrepreneurial activities. At the same time, this issue is regulated by article 35 of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Quality and Safety of Food and Food Resources. Four. The Ministry also agrees that the word “licensed” must be removed from the expressions of licensed veterinary medicine establishments and licensed veterinary pharmacies, since the subject is a veterinary medicine institution belonging to the operators. The economic activity of the subjects concerned is regulated by the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. Mine politicians also support the amendment to article 100-101 of the law on the removal of rural veterinary medicine benefits, free housing, heating, lighting, pluricredit, and so on, which are not provided for in the 2006 government budget. At the same time, in summary, we ask you, honourable national deputies, to make an informed decision. Take into account the President's comments on the law and accept it as final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Please sit down. Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u109	Dear John Adamovich, respected colleagues. Indeed, the President vetoed the Law on Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine and sent it back to the Supreme Council with his proposals. We have considered this bill with amendments and proposals to the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy, Land Resources and in principle agreed with most of the president's amendments. Of the six amendments made and the President’s proposals, we agreed on a committee with five. And with just one amendment, we disagreed with article 4 of the State Administration of Veterinary Medicine Act and that is why. It cannot be agreed with the president of Ukraine that the provisions of the Act on the Composition of State Authorities in Veterinary Medicine of the Central Executive Body on Veterinary Medicine and Special Status actually rely on the Cabinet of Ministers to establish a new relevant state body. And we have these structures that the Cabinet of Ministers is building on the adoption of laws that we are adopting on the Supreme Council. So the Supreme Council has absolutely the right to make such decisions. So, fellow Members, we have the support of the Committee of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, and it also supports that we have the right to create appropriate state structures and give them certain powers. So I ask you to support the decision of the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u110	Yes, thank you. Vote. So maybe let's not waste time, we'll put one proposal to the vote -- the adoption of the law in the new edition. Right? Yes, who is in favour of enacting the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act in the new edition, registration number 7602. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:17:25]] For 106 Not accepted. The law is rejected. I repeat, we voted on the committee's decision to enact a new law. What should we ask? Don't you get it? Okay. Who's in charge of adopting the law in the new edition with the committee's proposals. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:18:11]] For 113 Not accepted. The law is rejected. Dear colleagues! Mobilize. We have the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and Criminal Code of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 3624. [[on reconciliation of issues of responsibility]] And the president and the committee are proposing to repeal this law. I am voting on the decision to repeal the Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 3624. We vote for the rejection of the law. [[13:19:09]] For 148 Not accepted. Okay. Dear colleagues, we have an offer. I repeat, there are no other suggestions. Both the president and the profile committee are proposing that this law be repealed, i.e. there are no other proposals. If there are no other suggestions, and we have not accepted them, then the law itself has been repealed. The same situation with the Ukrainian Criminal Amendment Act. Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, Code of Administrative Offences for the Protection of Personal Rights and Freedoms of Persons and Citizens with Presidential Proposals from February 3, 2006. [[Registration number 7183]] Both the President and the committee of profile and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are proposing that the law be repealed. I would like to vote in favour of repealing this law. Vote. Because there's a vote. [[13:20:22]] For 175 Same thing, not accepted. Clearly, there are no other suggestions. So you and I are rejecting this law. The Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators is being considered with proposals from the President. Registration number 4125. The Deputy Minister is Emilian's Inna Ivanovna. Prepare Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We are looking at this new law on the status of investigators, and the Supreme Council is adopting the same positions as the President has pointed out that they are both in conflict with the Constitution and the Criminal Procedure Code, and special laws on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Security Service, and so forth. In particular, the President said, I will now remind you, honourable deputies, of these positions. The president said that the definition of the sole status of the investigator and the adoption of this particular special law was not in line with the Criminal Procedure Code, and the benefits and advantages and conditions of the service were set by a number of laws, what they said. In addition, the Law on Social Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, “On the Pension Insurance of Military Servants – Persons of the Primary and Military Staff of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons”, “On the State Tax Service”, what I spoke about, both the militia and the Security Service. An investigation assistant institute is established. This law gives procedural powers to participate in individual investigations. The President says that this is not in line with the Criminal Procedure Code, which does not determine the status of an assistant and does not determine the circle of procedural rights and obligations. In addition, the President says that the adoption of this law, according to the Ministry of Finance, will lead, firstly, to different degrees between investigators and search engines, particularly in part of their payments in the event of disability during the performance of their duties. When the investigators get 15,000 dollars in such cases, and the search and rescue workers get 30-50. This leads to an additional increase in the State budget and the introduction of disagreements. This law is not in line with Article 27 of the Budget Code. There are further observations concerning the establishment of additional institutions of intactity as provided for by this law, when the case can only be violated by senior prosecutors at the district level, at the level of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Kiev and Sevastopol. The president says that this leads to a violation of article 24 of the Constitution, which speaks of the equal rights of citizens before the law. Thank you. I ask once again to consider the President's proposals carefully and to reject this law, honourable national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u112	Yes, please, Marcus Maria.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u113	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian law on the status of investigator, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 January 2006 with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Fourthly, on behalf of the President, there is essentially a promise of this law as one that does not conform to valid legislation. Yet this does not correspond to reality. Since the main argument in the President's veto is that the status of the investigator is regulated by the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Administrative Procedure Code, and the lack of funds in the budget. I believe that these proposals should be carefully analyzed. And the members of the committee carefully examined them. And they concluded that they were not convincing. In their statements to the Committee on the Status of Investigators, the Ukrainian National Deputies stressed that this was the case, first of all, with the claim that the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators did not correspond to the Constitution, that it did not comply with the applicable legislation, and that it introduced a double regulation of the same law. Disagreed with such assessments of the law, members of the committee note that it is designed to comply with the requirements of the Constitution’s Transitional Regulations on the establishment of a system of pretrial investigation and the introduction of laws that regulate its functioning, since there is no such system in Ukraine today, and then the judicial investigation is carried out, as is still the case, by investigators of various departments. The Act on the Status of Investigators aims to increase the status of the investigator as the central procedural figure in the pretrial investigation through the legislative establishment of a special order for the appointment and release of the investigator, the establishment of legal guarantees for his procedural independence, which aim to relieve any illegal pressure on the investigator. The prescribed law will to a large extent contribute to halting the outflow of investigators, preserving and strengthening the staff core of this service, and enhancing the attractiveness of the investigator’s profession. Members of the committee also disagree with the claim that the law introduces double regulation of certain legal relations, since it is in its final position that changes are made to the relevant applicable laws in order to avoid regulatory duplication. The relevance of the bill and the need for its immediate entry into force is also demonstrated by a letter dated 21 October 2005 from the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine and by the request of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka to all Ukrainian national deputies. Furthermore, honourable colleagues, given the stated and that the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine since 7 March 2006 to establish a National Investigation Service, which requires the sole legislative definition of the status of investigator, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the second half of 2006, that the proposals of the President of Ukraine should be rejected before the Status of Investigators Act and that Ukraine should be re-adopted by the decree of 11 January 2006 by less than two thirds of the vote from the Supreme Council. In case of non-admission by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the decision proposed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u114	Right. Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. So we're going to vote with you first on the President's proposal. I am betting on the President's motion to reject Ukraine's Pro Status of Investigators Act, registration number 4125. [[13:27:35]] For-61 The President's proposals are not supported. I am voting on the proposal of a committee to overcome the veto on the President's proposal for the status of investigators, 4,125 bills, please vote. [[13:28:06]] For 202 Right. I'm voting on a proposal by the profile committee for a new bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:28:31]] For 225 Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, don't shout. The law has been discussed with you for the fifth time. So let's either not embarrass ourselves anymore, or we can beat the veto, or let's say we have enough power to accept it. For the fifth time, this law is being considered. Areas 41, Communists 55, Block Timoshenko 31, People's Party 22, Our Ukraine 7, Socialists 28, National Block 21, Social Democrats 7, Ukrainian People's Party, National Movement, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, Rebirth - 7, Reforms and Orders - 3, non-fractional - 3. [[United]] Who's to go back to the vote? [[13:29:39]] For 242 We're back. I'm voting on the adoption of the law in the new edition, Law 4125. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:30:03]] For 243 Copy that. Yeah, we're a little tired, so no, no. We're a little tired, so now we're going to have some interesting statements. Four factions, two by two, requesting recesses. Yes, but factions and socialists, but and socialists, the school has the word "our Ukraine" and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, who will speak? Yes, please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u115	Dearest, School of Andrews, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again your attention that the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko demands that we put to the vote the law on the annulment of the immunity of members of the local councils. Let's take it off, please, this burden that's been completely wasted on us. We demand that we put this vote right now and today, not hide behind the fact that we can postpone it to Thursday, Friday, or, hence, Saturday. I would like to refer to the authors of this law on parliamentary immunity, these are the representatives of the faction “Our Ukraine” who now support the abolition of parliamentary immunity, because it actually brings negatives, no positives we have for very simple reasons, because right now too many different representatives of different groups, including criminals, are being drawn to power. They want and have reason to do so, to get an iron shield in the form of an MP's mandate from all manifestations to them, the interest of law enforcement agencies, legitimate and legitimate interests. So let's take this question down, let's take out all the interpretations, let's take off all the accusations, eventually, of the Supreme Council in that it extends this law. Let's put it to a vote and demonstrate whether or not we support this law, let's show our attitude in a normal and normal way, by voting. We do not require those of you who do not want to vote in favour, but we demand and have the full right to vote, and let each national MP vote in favour of whether it is “in favour” of the slogan “Bandits – Council” or “against”. Let him thus show his civic position. I would very much like all those who think about how to vote to think and vote. And anyone who wants to see the parliamentary mandate of the local authorities as a shield against criminal prosecution for criminal crimes may, in principle, not vote. This, first of all, touches the Communist Party to make this intrusive within those structures that, in hiding under the MP's mandate and inviolability, run to the local authorities. I would very much like for you to now, national deputies, to identify and vote. I call on Adam Ivanovich to put to the vote right now the Act on the removal of parliamentary immunity from the local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, calm down. I'd like us to stay together, and I'd like to wish that every faction, including BUT, would be as consistent as the Communists. Because you voted on September 6 to adopt such a law, and today you are “singing” completely different songs. So please don't touch the Communists, they're on the left and they're on the right, they're on the right track. That's one thing. Second, you can yell all you want, it won't help you, I remind you, at the last plenary meeting, at your insistence, I put your proposal to the vote and it didn't get the support of the session room. The chairman is not going to serve. You can resolve this matter as provided by the Rules. Yes, please, anyone from “Our Ukraine”. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I demand to take this off because it is not written here. You can't keep spreading lies right now! Please take it off and I'll tell you why. Because on September 8, 2005, School, listen carefully, you can read something useful! On September 8th, at 12:49 this Law was voted by 270 people. The BUT faction voted in favour of the 41st Article 34. Including, “Andrey School voted in favour. Including, Andrew School voted in favour! “For” was also voted by the prominent BUTUTs: Abdulin, Bagraev, Biruk, Budagyanz, Gladys, Zubec, Astrov-Šumilov, Bilorus, Borzich, Hapok, Golaty, Zubov, Kirilczuk, Kozlovsky, Korž, Lukyanko, Onopenko, Sas, Sitnik, Smyanenko, Fedorczuk, Hmelnicki, Chichov, Constantinov, Kruk, Lukashuk, Omelchenko, Seminoga, Sinchenko, Soloshenko, Taran, Ckitishvili, Shevčuk. So, dear friends, I want you to know clearly what political forces have taken what position. You're asking for me, I'll tell you: The National Movement of Ukraine gave 0 — that is, they did not vote in favour of the Law. Our Ukraine was exactly 54 votes against this Law, so that you might know. And to the acquaintance of Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, unfortunately, the harsh truth of life shows that out of the 56 communists then 55 voted "for" the parliamentary immunity of 240,000 deputies of local councils. So all that's going on right now plus what's promised all the pear action, that there's not going to be any MPs out here, and so on, are the actions of a lying lady with her lying policies! I've just shown you the results of the vote all over the country. So, dear friends, I ask that the more pharisaicism here do not flourish. If anyone is interested in how the other factions voted, I remind you that the 26-25 Socialists supported, 52-48 regions voted in favour of “One Ukraine” from 20 to 11, “Democratic Ukraine” from 19 to 19 then voted in favour of the law, a faction of the National Party from 44 to 35, and Carmazin, as a whole, was against the law. This law, the author of this law, was a member of the faction of the National Party, the Ukrainian National Party Valerius Assadchev. But I would like to remind you, Your Honorable Speaker, Andrew School. I want to remind him that he too has to be responsible today for the fact that amnesty has fallen on all those who fake elections and forgered today.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u118	Yes. School replica, one minute, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u119	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to remind you. I'm asking for your attention! I'm asking for your attention! To remind the speaker of Carmazin that he was, of course, left to speak in parliament -- this is his last speech, the last swan song ended with a false, disgraceful note. Because everything he said in his speech is a sudden, baseless lie! I'll start with one and the most important. It's Assadchev's law and we couldn't help but vote for the Ally's law to fight. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to point out that what the Carmagine Block is, we know who it's serving, who it's funding, and how it works. That is why I would like to point out that the “Fatherland” Party of the Yulia Party, Timoshenko, is on clear ground for removing parliamentary immunity. Because it all began with a memo signed on September 8th, when the slogan “Bandits – Prisons” was changed to “Bandits – to the Supreme and District Councils”. Sadly, this was due to the signing of the memorandum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Do not touch the dove of peace. Don't touch it. Come on. Yeah, two more factions are asking for breaks. Who's it gonna be? Oh, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u121	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. I'm asking Julia Timoshenko's Block not to put pressure on Carmazin Block. Next question. All over Carmazine Block. So, dear colleagues, I think most of the hall will agree with me, that the problem of the MP's inviolability of local councils is more than relevant. Those who travel in the territories know that people ask the only question: "Why do you need it and what do you want?" So if we're going to do this, not just do the pearacting, there's probably a point to listen to what Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin offered. And what the Conciliation Council has agreed to do is to make a single bill, agree on it, sign it by all faction leaders, so it doesn't matter. and vote. Because those emotions that are going on here today and now, they cause either a smile or irritation from those who are watching. Well, let's not make the Supreme Council a mess. And the last. You know, on behalf of the Lithuanian People's bloc, I think that by solving this problem, we should not forget with you that there is life in all the discussions about the two weeks remaining before the elections. And there are other problems in this life. I was approached today by the All-Ukrainian Council for the Protection of Patients' Rights and Security. They ask us, as the Supreme Council, to come to Kiev to stop insinuating what they want to close down Kiev City Tuberculosis Hospital N 1. That's the problem! What are we talking about, colleagues? Therefore, I think today I would also like to address our presiding Adam Ivanovich as a member of parliament. We have to ask Kievrada that never, under any sauce, the number one anti-tuberculosis hospital in Kiev should be classified under any centres with anything else that would not benefit the city's inhabitants. Not because the kiews are the most offended, but we have already come to the point where our capital, the capital, is already starting to fight tuberculosis the way they've been fighting all over the country. And, unfortunately, we have become a total TB, not a dispenser, but a treatment and treatment zone. So, I think we should do these things. And all that's written here, once again, is Lithuania's normal proposal, let's do it logically, especially since the Conciliation Council has agreed, and there will be no emotion, there will be no scandals. Although I can allow myself to speak. Sometimes I think there are scandals in this room because they fear that there is no other way to draw attention to themselves. We saw these things today, I'm afraid we'll see. But I think that the people, like us, will have enough wisdom for all kinds of nonsense, every free attempt to get their attention, well, laugh together, scarecrow enough, we go on living, and, God willing to.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, of the active faction! Save the most active MP, don't get him out of order. Carmazin's still coming in, the session's not over. That's one thing. The other one. I remind you that cold wine has ended in an international strain. Let's decompose now, let's move on to ratifications. And the third. I speak no more for the session room, which understands the problem well, but for those who listen to us. You don't have to speculate. Discussions about what the law says today cannot bring a local council member to account, nor do they match the reality. The problem is that this MP, so he can not be persecuted for his work to protect the interests of his constituents, can only be held accountable when proven, not as he does now: sorry, grabbed the skin, planted, and then done what I want with you. We're just moving on to civilized forms of attraction. We're going to have a really clean, puffy state with clean hands, no such warnings. And there's no need for speculation. Guilty - he'll have to be in jail. So let's calm down. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the matter. We need to get back to the previously unsupported issues. That is: I am voting for a return to the previously unsupported question of including it in the agenda, a draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to allow the forces of other States to join Ukraine in 2006 to participate in multinational military training. Registration number 9015. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:45:48.]] For 121 According to factions: "Ukraine's Regions" – 2, Communists – 0, Timoshenko Block 21, People's Party – 20, "Our Ukraine" – 36, Socialists, National Block of Ukraine – 0, Social Democrats – 1, Ukrainian People's Party – 7, National Movement of Ukraine – 8, Industrial Party – 5, "Rebirth" – 4, "Reforms and Orders" – 14, non-fractional – 3. [[United]] I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Dear fellows, I ask you once again, lay down your hands, your feet, sit down and calm down. Sit down and calm down. The question is not considered. The question is not considered. Please, let's take a balanced approach to ratification issues. Procedures of who?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u123	Fifthly, you've already decided without your procedures. Draft Law on Ratification of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. Registration number 0320. Is there no objection to us supporting this agreement? I'll put it to a vote. Pay attention! I am voting on the adoption of the law on ratification of the International Convention on Combating. Any notes? Please, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, this is why I took the floor. The International Convention on Combating Acts of Nuclear Terrorism is signed. She needs support. But. But this Convention contains a number of provisions that need to be regulated by Ukraine's legislation to make changes. According to our legislative technique, this should be done simultaneously. But since this document has been tabled for our consideration, it is proposed that you adopt such a project, you have a convention to ratify, but the law of ratification only goes into effect at the same time as changes to the existing laws of the Criminal Code and so forth. That's why. and entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a three-month deadline to make a proposal to the Supreme Council on this issue, i.e. ratification conditionally, only after amending our existing laws: the Criminal Code and some others. Under such conditions, it can be ratified.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u125	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Yes, are there any other thoughts? Manchulenko, another offer. Manchulenko and we will vote. Please, it's Manchulenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u126	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian National Block Kostenko and Plusha Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This convention is extremely important for the rule of law system in our country, and it needs to be ratified. There are generally significant norms of international law when an international convention is ratified, its rules become valid and are prerogatives or have the supremacy of Ukrainian national legislation. Some changes to the national legislation of one country or another are being made accordingly. The convention can therefore be ratified and the draft Ratification Act can be adopted, which is number 0320, from two points: paragraph one and paragraph three. And that's logical: we ratify -- and we're tasking the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare appropriate changes to Ukraine's national legislation. We can't ratify this kind of thing because it's contrary to international law, it's meant to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, be careful. I don't think it's in conflict. We're ratifying you, but we're warning you that the law will be put into effect when we bring the other legislative acts to that stage so that this ratification and the law will work in the interests of, above all, Ukraine and the international community with which we sign. I don't see any special warnings here, so to speak. I'm going to put up a motion for a vote. But I'd like us to ratify it. So let's look for compromise. And the compromise is that we ratify it, but we put the law into effect after we adopt changes to other laws. We'll accept them, we'll just have to bring them in and look at them. Yeah, I'm making an offer first -- who's making it, President? Yes, this is the President's proposal. I am voting on the President's proposal to ratify the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. Registration number 0320. Please be sure. [[13:51:25]] For-137 Now I'm voting for a profile committee proposal. Once again, the idea is to adopt the Ratification Act, the second is to put this law into effect after the adoption of amendments to other legislative acts, and the third is to ask the Cabinet of Ministers to submit these bills immediately for consideration by the Supreme Council. Here's to the committee's proposal to vote. Vote. [[13:52:07]] For 233 Thank you. So the convention's ratified. The Law takes effect after the adoption of changes to laws that have a direct bearing on it. And the Office of the Ministers of Commitment. We ask the Cabinet of Ministers to submit the necessary bills for our consideration. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Convention of the World Health Organization for the Fight against Tobacco, registration number 0328. No warning? Vote. [[13:52:51]] For 274 Thank you, the law has been passed, the convention has been ratified. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Economic Cooperation, registration number 0326. Let's work together. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-03-15-m0.u128	Ukrainian. [[13:53:25]] For 274 Thank you, the ratified Economic Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and Poland. Dear colleagues, we need to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement (Financing of the Ukrainian ESCO (second phase) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0318. Who's in favour of going back to that question, please vote. We're voting friendlyly. Vote. It's not a railroad. [[13:54:11]] For 263 We're back. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I understand you've been a little upset, but you need to focus, this isn't about the railway, this is the draft law on the ratification of the Credit Agreement (Financing of the Ukrainian ESCO (second phase) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0318. Please vote. Vote. [[13:54:48]] For 292 Thank you. The treaty ratified, the law passed, the deal ratified. Here's the next offer. Go back to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Registration No. 0270. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:55:32]] For-123 We're not back. I mean, it was taken off this session. Yes, dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of TB, registration number 8648, second reading. [[on forced hospitalization of patients]] All offers are included. No objections? Nobody insists? No, it's not. Then I put to a second reading vote and generally as a law amending the Law on TB, registration number 8648. Please vote. [[13:56:29]] For 266 Thank you. The law has been passed. Draft Act amending the Civil Procedural and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine, registration number 6014. [[on executive conduct]] Which of the national counterparts has a reference to this bill, and they are not included? None. I'm voting on adoption in the second reading, as a whole, as the Law on Amendments to the Civil Procedure and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine. [[about the execution]] Registration number 6014. Please vote. [[13:57:19]] For 283 Thank you. The law is passed. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the order in which to fetch alimony]] 7256. The current law, because little children are born. No objections? I am voting on adoption as a whole, as a law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[concerning the order in which to fetch alimony]] Registration number 7256. Please vote. [[13:58:05]] For 279 The law is passed. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values. [[on the powers of the law enforcement authorities]] Registration number 4527. A professional committee suggests that the decision to adopt this law be lifted in the first reading. Please support this decision. Vote. [[13:58:46]] For 241 Thank you. It was decided that we had cancelled our vote before it was adopted in the first reading. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Executive Implementation. [[on the enforcement of court decisions]] Registration number 6023. No objections? Nobody insists? I am voting for adoption in the second reading, as a whole, as the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine “On Implementing Implementation. ” Registration No. 6023. Please vote. [[13:59:35]] For 274 Decision taken. The draft Law on State Organizational Action on Social Security and Social Protection and Support for Graduates of Orphans and Children Deprived of Parental Care. [[second reading]] Registration number 7380. Is there no objection? I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law. Please vote. [[14:00:15]] For 301 Thank you. The law is passed. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act for Educators, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff. [[on postage salaries]] [[second reading]] Registration number 6488. There were two suggestions: one taken into account editorially, the other counted. I'll bet you a vote. [[2:01:07]] For 270. The law is passed. I've moved on for 15 minutes. Don't worry about the meeting. It's already been done. Draft Act amending Chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[on the financing of out-of-school educational institutions]] [[second reading]] Registration number 2095. There's something off here. Nobody insists? I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law. Vote. [[14:01:53]] For 243 The law is passed. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ordering of Nuclear Security Issues, registration number 7785. [[on the formation of a financial reserve]] Who Urges Notes? You don't? Bronnikov promises that this law is good. We vote in general as a law. [[2:02:36]] For 206 By factions, please: “Regions” - 44, Communists - 56, Block Timoshenko - 17, People's Party - 17, “Our Ukraine” - 1, Socialists - 25, People's Block Lithuania - 22, Social-Democratic Party - 3, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, National Movement of Ukraine - 5, “Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs” - 8, “Rebirth”, “Reforms and Orders” - 0, non-fractional - 5. [[united]] Who has a point to this law? You don't? Who's to go back to the vote before the vote, please vote. [[14:03:29]] For a hundred and We're not back. What do we do with the law? Who's on the committee? Who wants to be sent to read again? Please vote. Another second. Let them read. Carmazin, let them read. [[14:04:01]] For-198 Well, then, dear fellows, all we could use is the law is regarded as being rejected. Well, let's try another one. Who's to go back to the draft Act on Amendments to the Banking and Banking Act? [[on branches of foreign banks]] Registration number 7274? I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:04:41]] For-92 We're not back. Who wants to go back to the draft Anti-Forbiding Export Act, registration number 7565? I'd like to make up my mind. It's the government's Soviet law. [[14:05:13]] For 158. Who's to go back to the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Export, Export, Sorry, Waste and Black Metals? Registration number 8316. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:05:48]] For-163 Not supported. Who wants to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Exporting Customs to Livestock and Leather Commodity, registration number 8317? I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:06:18]] For-141 Not accepted. Oh, yeah. Who wants to go back to the draft Amendments Act of Ukraine's Customs Tariff, registration number 8733? [[on the refund of previous duty rates on cartons]] [[14:06:53]] For 118 We're not back. In order to return to the draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 1315. [[on the payment of VAT on import equipment for the food and processing industry]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:07:27]] For-123 Dear colleagues! It's amazing, but the fact that we've done with you today is everything that's been recorded in the agenda. I thank you for your wise approach to solving problems. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. We will not have an evening session, but since 15 hours we are holding parliamentary hearings on the issue of “Stand and prospects for the development of youth housing in Ukraine”.
