ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system, let's register. [[16:00:53]] 393 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session, the evening session of the Supreme Council, I declare open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 8339, is being complied with. [[on Road Traffic Safety]] Reported to the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs. To prepare Mary Marcus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u2	Deputy Interior Minister Rudik Vladimir Mikhailovich. In the last five years, there has been an increase in traffic accidents and the number of people who have been killed or injured in Ukraine. In particular, a steady trend has been observed since 2001, following a change in legislation on road safety. The bill identifies the main directions and ways to address the problem of road safety. First of all, this is the introduction of real factors that affect road users with a view to countering road safety offences and excluding the possibility of avoiding liability for infringements that take account of the practice of European countries, reviewed the list of road safety violations, excluded minor and virtually non-road accidents, which account for more than 70 percent of existing violations and, at the same time, increased sanctions for the most dangerous infringements that lead to road traffic accidents with severe consequences. The procedure for temporarily detaining a driver’s licence in the course of a person’s offences for which sanctions are provided for in the form of a waiver of the right to drive, namely: driving in a state of drunkenness, combining road traffic accidents, failing to meet the driver’s requirements for stopping. Legal grounds for temporary detention of vehicles on a special site or a parking lot have been established. This is in the following cases: - in the absence of a driver, in general, of documents identifying ownership of a vehicle; - the operation of unregistered means of transport without registration plates or vouchers for State technical inspection; - the operation of means of transport with destroyed or counterfeit identification numbers before the decision is taken by the essentially appropriate State authority; - the responsibility of citizens and officials for failing to comply with the DAI regulations, which require the removal of detected road safety violations, as well as the increased responsibility of pedestrians, cyclists, drivers, animal drivers. There's some more money here. Dear National Deputies! The Ministry worked with relevant road safety experts. We will continue to work together if you adopt it in the first reading, of course, that the law is not ideal, but there are requests, honourable national MPs, accept it in the first reading and work in the form that the state needs. I thank you for your attention and ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u3	Thank you. Please sit down. Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Marcus Maria Andriyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u4	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of a road safety service. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, as well as the Ukrainian Laws on Police, on Road Traffic, on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Responsibility of Land Transporters Imported or Consigned by Citizens to Customs Territory of Ukraine, on State Border Service, on State Protection of Workers of the Court and Law Enforcement Authorities, on “Providing the Security of Persons Taking part in Criminal Justice”, on Beekeeping”. The introduction of these changes to the current laws of Ukraine aims to improve the state regulation in the area of road safety through the legislative definition of the status of the State traffic safety service, the road police and the patrol services of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which have been established on the basis of the decommissioned State inspection unit, and the redistribution between them of the latter functions. Considering that the bill is aimed at improving the effectiveness of public policy in the area of road safety, reducing road and road accidents in Ukraine, establishing a mechanism for the implementation of the rights and obligations of public authorities to prohibit the use of means of transport in cases of regulatory acts and to ensure the elimination of offences that will contribute to improving the discipline of road users, the committee decided to approve the bill and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading to accept it as a basis. According to the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the draft law can also be adopted on the basis of mandatory comments and suggestions. I have a different position from the position of the committee on this and this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u5	Yes, please have a seat, Maria Andriyevna. Shall we discuss it? Yes, it is. Sergey Shevchuk, please. Get ready for Santa Claus. I can't see. Please, Santa Claus. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u6	Mikola Sadowy, faction of the Socialist Party, Alexander Frost's faction. Alexander Frost! This is the leader of the Social Party. The president used his decree to eliminate state autoinspection and to create a road police force. The aim of the bill is to increase the impact on the discipline of road users with a clear definition of legal sanctions for the offences being committed and to ensure that the decisions taken in administrative matters in the area of road safety are properly implemented. Changes and additions to legislation in the area of traffic safety are primarily aimed at warning road traffic accidents with serious consequences and at preserving the lives and health of citizens. The bill strengthens the establishment of the State Road Traffic Service and the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs patrol, identifies their place in the current legal field and enhances the impact on the discipline of road users and ensures the proper level of implementation of administrative decisions. The specified law improves the regulatory framework in this area, defines the role of the central executive authorities in the state regulation of road safety, and provides for unpopular decisions, such as the need for temporary detention of vehicles, the temporary removal of driver’s licenses, and so on. However, the practice of countries with advanced motorization has demonstrated the effectiveness of such applications. So socialists support the bill. Because we're getting this paradoxical situation: DAI is gone, and there is no road service. And there is so much injustice on the roads that it applies to road police officers who violate these traffic rules. So the Minister of Internal Affairs, Lucenko, is doing a good job. And I call upon the faction of socialists to discuss this problem to urge all MPs to vote in favour of this bill to be a normative and legislative basis so that the rules of conduct of the road militia and the rules of conduct of those who are on the road can be regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u7	Yuri Solomatin, please. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, a very interesting situation has arisen, you can put it in one sentence: DAI is gone, the DPS is gone. And there is a very interesting question: Was it so sudden, so brutal, so stupid to eliminate the DAI? For example, I felt that someone who had not yet realized what she had done had done so. The fact that the situation that arose after the decommissioning of DAI on Ukraine’s highways needs to be regulated in a legislative way is certain. But along with what I think should be called the responsibility of those who have created it so senselessly. Therefore, it would be timely to make a proposal to remove the minister of internal affairs, the honourable Mr. Lucenka, from office for such irresponsible actions. And, finally, before that, they are sure how they were stressed by unpopular decisions, or proposals. Temporary removal of driver's licenses, etc. Well, let's at least talk about this with you. What does that mean? It's again face-to-face with the state patrol officer and the driver who broke something. Do you not feel that this is the case? That we are not offering anything new in those, as if new legislative proposals were in comparison with what had already happened. We return the dining room for those who have lost it and there is now one wage. So, from this point of view, let's be honest with you, let's put it bluntly: the bill in question doesn't solve anything compared to what happened and the culprits are already settling the situation at the legislative level that happened. Civil organizations that are created and that vote in connection with the bill are viewed as such. Therefore, our faction cannot support its vote with the prescribed bill and proposes that it be returned to the first reading, taking into account the suggestions of drivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u9	Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the road situation obliges us to conceptually support this bill in the first reading. I agree that there are shortcomings in it, that there will be changes in the process of preparing for the second reading. But I think we'll make a mistake if we don't support the bill conceptually today. There's a war on the road. Every year in Ukraine, 6-7 people are killed on the roads, about 40-50-60,000 injured. Is the situation still binding or not? I am convinced that she is obliged to respond to it, to respond adequately. This bill is not the masterpiece of legislative activity, I agree with that once again, but we need to take a step in this direction, we need to start. Please make suggestions, changes in addition, but to respond, I think we are obliged. A high degree of road accident, a very large number of infringements, a very large number of criminal insolences. One in four accidents is with the victims. In my opinion, on the one hand, we need to ensure that there is no seductive behavior on the part of drivers, on the other hand, that there is no seductive safety services on the road. I agree with that, too. Here the emphasis is mainly on drivers and pedestrians. Well, to a certain extent, it's justified, let's take a step in that direction, and then we'll fill in the novels that will provide that will make it impossible for the services to contravene. The responsibility of drivers, pedestrians, and services is needed. And I need sanctions. What impresses me in this law is that there is a reduction in the pressure on petty offenders, which is about 70% of the violations, here, really, you can lower the pressure and reduce the rush of safety services on the roads, and there's a rise in the pressure on the 30 percent of the gross violations that the victims carry. I think that this approach is right, and it gives me the right to political, legislative and moral right to speak absolutely with a clear conscience about what it can be supported, increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who signed up, had the opportunity to speak in the discussion. Question completed. In fact, you rightly note that this is one of the most painful problems, what is being created in us on the roads, and it would have to be settled. But the situation that we have come to solve with you has once again demonstrated how we despise the basic law of our State and other laws. There is no record that anyone has the right to repeal laws other than the Supreme Council. However, without thinking about it, they canceled the act of the law that states that there is such a service — a government car inspection. It was destroyed in violation of the law, it was not created, because nothing can be created, and we have been living in such conditions for six months. In conditions where he doesn't decorate a state that wants to be legal. This one person’s delusion results in what consequences. And there is an article in the Constitution that says that no one has the right to obey illegal orders. That is, the minister of the interior had absolutely all the constitutional grounds not to carry out this illegal order or to eliminate an organ protected by the law. But we have what we have. Now we have to get out of this situation. Dear colleagues, don't ask. Don't ask. Jaroslav Kendzior, don't ask, because I know you a long time ago. Very good, very good, don't ask. I put to the vote, put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for the road safety service), registration number 8339. I'm making a note to Kendzior. Please go to your workplace. It's a violation of the Constitution. [[16:20:31]] For 118 Not accepted. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” - 23, Communists - 0, National Party - 3, Block Timoshenko - 0, “Our Ukraine” - 38, Socialists - 22, National Block - 4, Social Democrats - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 14, Industrial and Business Party - 8, “Reforms and Orders” - 3, non-fractional - 3. [[United]] What's the offer? No offer? Who wants to come back again? [[16:21:31]] For 104 Return to 104, 104. The law is not passed, it is rejected. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the resistance to illegal circulation of archival values, registration number 8699, is under consideration. Reported to the Deputy Justice Minister of Gorbunov. Prepare Joulinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u12	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation to increase the resistance to the illegal circulation of archival values. The aim is to strengthen control over the movement of archive documents, to transfer ownership to them, to effectively resist their illegal circulation and to ensure their guaranteed preservation. The project was designed to implement the Ukrainian President's order of 13 April 2005 on urgent measures to preserve Ukraine's national archival values. At present, the issue of the preservation and use of the national archival values of Ukraine of the National Archives Foundation and the documents to be submitted to them has been regulated by a series of Ukrainian laws. First of all, these are laws: “About the National Archives and Archives”, “About Export, Import and Return of Cultural Values”, “About Libraries and Library Affairs”, “About Museums and Museums”, etc. At the same time, these and other laws do not sufficiently address the issue of State control over the transfer of ownership to assign archival values, such as those held in private property and then to ensure their preservation. Therefore, the draft law provides for amendments to a number of legislative acts aimed at strengthening State control over the preservation of archival values, namely: the Labour Code is supplemented, the workers with whom a contract of employment may be terminated from the owner's or authorized body under certain conditions. The Code of Administrative Offences has also been amended. It is extended to those who are involved in the violations of legislation regarding the National Archives Foundation and the archiving institutions for which they may be drawn to administrative responsibility. The Ukrainian Act on the National Archives and Archives is supplemented by rules on the clarification of specific definitions, concepts and terms, the obligations of holders of documents to prohibit the destruction of documents without prior analysis of their values, the prohibition of sale, purchase and export of documents that have not been reported to the State Archives, the conditions for transfer of ownership to documents, the strengthening of State control over the state of preservation of archival documents, particularly in archives established by natural persons. The adoption of the law will strengthen opposition to the illegal circulation of national archival values and will help to ensure that archival documents are preserved. Please support and accept this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u13	Thank you, Lydia Santa Claus. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Mikola Grigorovich Joulinski Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality proposes to support this bill and to take it as a basis, i.e. in the first reading, because we have some observations to this law I would like to stop at them. In particular, the committee disagrees with the proposed revision to article 92. 1 Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences The replacement of the terms “National Archive documents, archive funds or documents that are subject to incorporation into the National Archives Fund for the term “archive document” in the article should replace the measure of responsibility for illegal acts, since the terminology used differs significantly in importance and value. It also raises objections to the addition of the same article of the Code to the provision of administrative responsibility for the failure to notify the State Archives of the documents available to carry out an expert review of their value. On the one hand, it is true that the officials of enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property should be strictly committed to the preservation of archival documents related to the rights of citizens. On the other hand, by encouraging citizens to initiate an expert analysis of the value of their documents, which have been over 50 years since they were created, the State must adhere to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the noninterference in the personal life of a citizen and the inviolability of private property rights. The committee also proposes to delete the additions to article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Archives and Archives on the forced alienation of documents of the National Archives Fund, which are privately owned as being contrary to articles 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The issue of ownership of the National Archives Fund documents must be addressed in a comprehensive manner, taking into account the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Well, there are certain additions to article 33, so we think we should join in with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and we also think that it can take. This law is based on the comments and suggestions made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u15	Thank you, Mikola Grigorovitch. Shall we discuss it? They want to. Please, Sergey Zizko. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u16	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! The current adoption of this bill is due to the need to strengthen the control of responsibility for preserving archival values. It is no mystery, though, that by using improper storage conditions, some crafty works are wise to kidnap, resell archival documents that are the cultural or spiritual treasures of the Ukrainian nation, priceless artifacts of our time. And this “freeze” has long been proper. It would have to be stopped, because the lack of archives about our historical past, about the actions of previous generations, their state-owned, economic, political work overshadows the history of our people, overshadows our ability to argue the political future, gives maps to political speculators from other geopolitical centres to minimize the significance of our history, to reverse the creation of our statehood today, and to talk about its randomness, about it, so to speak, the temporaryness that can be heard sometimes from the Russian Federation Ambassador to the Ukraine of Montenegro, who finally realized that Ukraine is not Russia, and who finally speaks of Ukraine as not being a state, but with it has to be counted today. Thus, to prove that Ukraine was a state, it is necessary to preserve our historical memory. And unfortunately, today, Ukraine’s archival heritage is insufficiently protected by the state. Therefore, I believe that this bill would be worth complementing the provisions that would provide for the automatic discovery of a criminal case in violation of the terms and conditions of the National Archives Foundation's documents, the identification of their absence or the signs of their damage. We should agree with the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office on the inadequacy of replacing the term “National Archive Fund documents” or “documents that are subject to its introduction” with the term “archive documents” because the concept of “archive document” is broader by content. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u17	Thank you, Sergey Andryovich, but the Ambassador of Russia respects the country, he admits to being a state, he admits. Santa Claus, please. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u18	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, member of the Socienne Party. In today’s conditions, the bill proposed for discussion is not sufficiently related to the insufficient regulation of State control over the transfer of ownership to archiving values, especially those archiving values held in private property, and then their preservation is under much of the question. The archiving business does not usually serve the national interests of Ukraine. This is the way to dispense archival information, use archives in defined circles, political goals. So this bill is needed, and the socialists will support it in the first reading. The adoption of the Law will allow increased control over the movement of archive documents, the transfer of ownership to these documents, the more effective response to illegal circulation, and the assured preservation of them. The implementation of this Law will take place within the limits of the costs that are and do not require additional funding. But at the same time, local self - government authorities will be involved in the financing at the expense of internal reserves. The adoption of the Law will also strengthen opposition to the illegal circulation of national archival values and will help to ensure that archival documents are preserved throughout the nation. In addition, the archive has strategic information. And the state must return to the archival case with its face. The second reading should identify the technology of storing, moving, and protecting archival documents. And to determine, of course, the criminal responsibility for the violations that are possible in relation to the state's archiving information. Once again, socialists in the first reading support this bill, it is needed to preserve our national wealth, our archival wealth.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u19	Basil Nadrag. Prepare Vladimir Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u20	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, speaking of archival values, we often associate this with either a unique autograph or a manuscript of a remarkable person. But, unfortunately, you'll understand a lot: why I say "sorry" to the notion of archival values and refer to such materials as employment records in a particular enterprise. Data on dismissal and admission to employment, on the salary paid to the employee. And as a major, I have not been approached once by ordinary labourers who begin to form a disability pension, an old-age pension. And, unfortunately, they are often faced with the fact that, after the total privatization of enterprises, archival data, according to which those social benefits, benefits and pensions will be accrued, are often lost. Moreover, new owners make amazing eyes when they are told that compliance with and preservation of these archival data is their measure of responsibility. Therefore, when we discussed at the Lithuanian People's Box faction the question of the relation to this law, we would like to wish those who are developing it that the responsibility of owners of archival values, archival materials, should be strengthened for the second reading. What is more, as far as the people living today and in need of these archives are concerned. Because when people come to me as a deputy, and then my assistants find the so-called work archives of enterprises in the garbage disposal, in the basement, and then the person is unable to obtain the corresponding pension, the corresponding benefit, then the money is the price of all discussions about the economic feasibility of any economic change. Therefore, the members of the People's Block of Lithuania support the bill on first reading. But I would like to reiterate and turn to the developers: we propose to tighten the situation, however, with regard to the liability measure of those individuals, legal persons, non-State actors who are legally responsible for the preservation of the archives, including the archives of civilians. the status, the working relationship, and all that 47 million require, not just to focus on someone's outstanding records, even unique ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u21	Vladimir Novak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u22	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to point out immediately that the law that we are considering is extremely necessary for Ukraine. It is time to make adjustments to the Ukrainian Act on National Archives and Archives. The bill proposes to give the right to control the preservation of archival documents, the requirements for their storage conditions, the procedures for accounting and access to documents of the National Archives Fund by the central authority of the executive branch in the field of archiving and management, or by the national authority empowered by it. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to a key issue in the archive’s lack of proper storage conditions. Today, in Ukraine, the archives are in a catastrophic state. Look at the conditions under which documents are stored. In general, these adapted facilities are not fit for storage. So there are reports of floods, fires, destruction of buildings, resulting in the loss of historical values, relics, documents that testify to our history, our culture, our roots. I don't want to use loud words from this rostrum. But there is such a feeling that someone really wants us to remove from our memory the entire pages of the true history of our nation, our community. Someone really wants to write a story underneath them, write it down. And this work has been going on purposely in recent years. So that's the attitude of the authorities to the archival documents. Those who work with archival documents are surprised to note that a number of Soviet documents have been removed from the archives for unclear reasons. Access to certain matters is simply restricted. So what is very important here in the proposed bill is the fact that the destruction of documents is prohibited without prior expertise and their value. It is also prohibited to sell, buy, and export documents that have not been reported to the State Archives. Very rightly, the authors of the project emphasize the problem of saving private archives. Because today private archives are preserved, unique documents are kept in private archives, which are the acquisitions of the entire Ukrainian nation, the whole nation. And the state must do everything to keep them safe. Not exported, not sold out and scattered around the world, as is done today. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of this project in the first reading. Its acceptance will allow for a better preservation of Ukraine’s historical and cultural heritage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u23	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. If you vote, you get it. School, please give me a minute. Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u24	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to point out that this bill itself has enough problems. Because there is a text in the body of the bill that provides for the prohibition of housekeeping or in the house of archival documents. And what's more, it's going to get people who see someone at home with an archive document to say to the appropriate institution that there's an archive document in this house, right at this address. I mean, I think after that, the guys are supposed to come in masks with coats, shields, remove the archive file to keep it better. So I would urge very carefully and carefully to vote in favour of this bill, because the case of the Lviv archive is a matter that is not resolved by this bill, but only vice versa, makes life difficult for people who work at home with archival documents. So when we talk about the Lviv archive, we need to keep in mind that there has been a waste of archival documents, selling them abroad, exporting them illegally. And it was covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u25	Nigger, please. Cherniak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill must be passed, there is no doubt about it. We need to stop the process of desecration and destruction of our history. I support the bill and I think we will vote for it on the first reading. The only thing I wanted to focus on was a discussion novel about the forced alienation of the National Archives Fund. The committee does not believe that this can be done. I think that's what we should do in cases where private owners are destroying archive documents. And Damocle's sword must hang over them. This needs to be done delicately, of course. The necessary mechanism is appropriate, but leave it, I think, this novel in the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u27	Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u28	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Ivy. Dear National Deputies! I think we should be supportive of this bill, considering that matters involving the circulation of archival values today are very bad. We know of cases where these values were stolen from the Lviv Museums. I think today, if we did an audit of any museum or state bodies that used these values, we'd be horrified by that situation. Therefore, we need this bill to innovate these values and to strengthen criminal responsibility for destruction, theft, or failure to maintain archival values. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Block of Kostenka and Plushka advocates for increased responsibility in this area and invites you to vote on it in the first reading so that it can be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. I am in solidarity with someone who says that such a bill is essential. Of course, the comments you made from the Profile Committee and what Andrew Schlell said are of some doubt as well as what to keep. Today it is not historical, and tomorrow it will be historic. But let's take it on the first reading, because we really need to protect our historical acquisition here. As a person who has spent more than a year in archives, I understand very well what it is. Let's take the first reading, and there the committee will work with the Cabinet of Ministers to provide appropriate clarifications. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase opposition to the illegal circulation of archival values. Registration number 8699. Please vote. [[16:44:48]] For 260 Thank you. Adopted in the first reading. No, in general, let's probably wait. The draft Law amending the Law on Joint Investment Institutions of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 8661. Reported to the head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich. Prepare the Holy One.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u30	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Law “On Institutes of Joint Investment. ” Ukraine's Law on Joint Investment Institutions requires changes and additions to the adoption of a series of legislative acts, such as the Civil and Economic Code of Ukraine, and to enable market participants to use a wider range of liquidated stock market instruments, and to diversify the assets of joint investment institutions, which corresponds to the current state of the market for securities. The practice of applying the law by companies with asset management and investment funds revealed the need to make some changes to the law in force. The following questions are being addressed. First, the definition and standards of the law are clarified, namely: open location, release of securities from joint investment, and others. The practice has shown that some of the rules of the law are not clearly defined, and interpretations of them have been misinterpreted. The bill provides for agreement on the definition and rules of law. Second, the standards of diversification of joint investment institutions' assets are improving. In particular, it is proposed to increase investment standards in government debt securities to diversified joint investment institutions, to increase investment rates in shares of Ukrainian issuers if shares of such issuers have been lysing and are in circulation on the stock market. Third, the provisions of the law are taken into account in accordance with the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine, as well as the provisions of the laws of Ukraine on mortgages, non - government pension insurance, and compulsory government pension insurance. Four. The terms of application of the ISI stock requirements are specified six months after the date of the first release of ISI securities. Let's go. Let's go, It's defined by a legal person who can function as an ISI asset. The bill proposes that it should be legislative to determine that the depository of assets of the joint investment institution is a bank, for the venture fund is a non-bank financial institution. The problems identified by the application practice of the Act should be addressed at the legislative level through the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Institute of Joint Investment, Food and Corporate, Investment Funds, which amends and adds to the Basic Law. The adoption of this bill is necessary because the bill is necessary. Each month in the Act in force, the market participants will be able to use a wider list of stock market liquidators, allowing market participants to use more flexible standards for the diversification of ISI assets. The adoption of the bill will increase the possibility of investment, which is directly linked to the amount of investment in Ukraine’s economy. Please support in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u31	Thank you. Sit down, Anatoly Ivanovich, please. Member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Dmitry Volodymyrovich Svetash
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u32	My dear colleagues, to the conclusion of the Commission on Securities, I would just like to add that our 2001 Law on the Institute of Joint Investment in Ukraine in the subsequent IIA has certainly contributed to the development of the investment funds of the new model and has given them the opportunity to invest in various investors, legal persons. These are financial companies, banks, and enterprises of a foreign investor. The text proposed for first reading aims to bring the terminology of the basic Law into line with the rules of the Civil Code and the Master Code. Taking into account the changes that have taken place in legislation with the adoption of certain laws of Ukraine, in particular the Non-State Pension Insurance Act. The bill proposes to introduce such terms as “open location”, “private offer”, “common investment”. Procedures for the creation and liquidation of corporate and equity funds are also being clarified, the restrictions on the management of ISI assets and the arrangements for the formation of a company’s asset management reserve fund are more clearly defined. These changes take into account the three-year practice of law enforcement and aim to improve the mechanism for diversifying the assets of joint investment institutions, including to ensure the sustainability of investment funds that can work with population funds, channelling funds in the ISI, into the most liquid market instrument. The adoption of this bill will contribute to increasing the effective activities of the ISI, broadening the circle of participants, which will generally increase investment resources in Ukraine's economy. The Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Export Authority, in its conclusion, notes that this bill can be taken as a basis. The Committee on Finance and Banking, at its February 7, 2006, meeting, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u33	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Perhaps we will not discuss it. None. Nobody insists? Then we'll vote. Mobilize, please, those who support the law. I put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine “On Institutes of Joint Investment, ” registration number 8661. [[16:51:12]] For 235 That's it. No, no, in general, wait, work. That's Baluk's answer, who said we were missing hands. Yes. Please move on to the issue of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 7685. [[on private agriculture]] Reported by the deputy minister of agricultural policy, Pavluk Natalija Andriyevna. Get ready, Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, and, honourable national deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act, private farming is an activity carried out without the creation of a legal person by an individual, or by persons who are in family or family relations and who share in the pursuit of personal needs through the production, processing and consumption of agricultural products, the implementation of their surpluses and the provision of services using the personal agricultural property. Article 7 of the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act stipulates that members of a private agricultural holding have the right to obtain a statutory employment pension, as well as other forms of state social assistance and subsidies. Pursuant to article 9 of the same law, members of private agriculture are subject to compulsory State social insurance, which is carried out in accordance with the order established by law. At the same time, article 8 defines that members of private agriculture belong to the category of employed population if the work in this farm is the main and calculated monthly income per member is equal to or greater than the minimum wage. Taking into account the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on personal agriculture, which has been prepared, and has been brought to your attention. The project’s proposals are designed to provide for a legislative level of settlement of relations related to the conduct of a private farm. In particular, additions are being made to the Employment Act of Ukraine regarding the assignment of members of private agriculture to the category of employed population if the work in the holding is the main and calculated monthly income per member is equal to or greater than the minimum wage. The Law on Property and the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on Industrial Tax have replaced only the words “substantial” with the word “selian”. Taking into account also the fact that members of individual farms refer to persons who provide themselves with work on their own and to the condition that their work is essential to them, and the monthly income calculated for one member of the farm. take part in compulsory public social insurance. Other public social insurance laws are also being amended. The bill provides for additions to the Ukrainian Act on State aid to families with children on the conditions for the provision of assistance to women in private rural households in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. The adoption of the Act will ensure that the rules of existing legislation are aligned with the rules of the Act on Personal Agriculture in regulating the activities of individual farmers and.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u35	Let me finish. Done?
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u36	One second.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u37	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u38	Acceptance of private agriculture in the management of the activities of private farmers and will contribute to increasing the level of social protection of the members of all the farms I have called. Please support the amendment law and thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u39	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The idea of philosophy is to be able to read. It's a simplified procedure. No questions asked. Take care of agriculture, you understand. Yeah, who's from the committee? Not from the committee? Well, the committee's offering to support it. Shall we discuss it? Yes, please, Gladys, prepare for the Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Our faction supports this bill and that's why. The changes are of a purely technical nature. I agree with the author who has just spoken that the changes that will be made to the nine laws will be able to put into effect a bill on amendments and additions to agriculture. So I support and I think we should vote for it on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u41	Mikola Sadowa. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u42	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. To date, we have an extremely imperfect legislation regarding the activities of agriculture. That's what everyone in every village admits. Following a voluntary approach and the collapse of the CAP, no new legislation was ever made, and what existed was no longer appropriate under new market conditions. Of course, this is no way to say that one form of farming is falling apart, and when a new form of farming is introduced, there is no doubt that laws, rules of play, technology, and only then are reformed. And we get it in such a way that they were destroyed by collective agricultural enterprises, but those that were created started to be created without any legislation, without any legislative basis. It's definitely nonsense. There has never been such a thing in human history. As far as the project is concerned, the project was designed to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with the Ukrainian Personal Agriculture Act, which was adopted in 2003, but is extremely imperfect. The introduction of amendments and additions to the legislative acts provided for in this bill will certainly allow for the harmonization of existing legislation with the rules of law in the regulation of the activities of individual agricultural holdings. The bill contains 8 articles on amendments to legislative acts. They are all right, and the socialists will support them, even though they do not complete all the changes that need to be made to the laws in force in order to protect the agricultural producer. The adoption of the aforementioned Ukrainian Law will ensure that the Ukrainian Law on Personal Agriculture, as well as the rules of other legislative acts relating to the law proposed, can be applied. Socialists support this bill in the first reading and believe that it needs to be worked out in a way that has a systematic approach to the creation of legislation throughout the agricultural complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u43	Basil Nadrag. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u44	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Almost 50 per cent of the population of Ukraine living in the village today are forced to suffer in their main mass under the conditions of minimum housing services and social protection. Why are we so poor? Why do we still have the country's interests? Why is only 28 per cent of the rural population employed in agriculture? That is, the actual poverty that has gripped our village today is a generally accepted norm. Why? Why did we do it as a country to cut that chicken with the golden eggs? Perhaps because we have succeeded in destroying the collective economy and, under a remarkable phrase in mindless capitalization, “give the village a reform”, we have failed not even the industry itself but the system of life of this population. Because rural populations are their own systems, traditions, habits, hopes and expectations. And, unfortunately, this 50 per cent of the population remained unclaimed by their own country. What do you need to do? First, if we are talking today about what we want to achieve order, we are going to provide a legal framework, so to speak, and we are going to resolve the legislative situation. Therefore, the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania will support this bill, and we do not believe that it will radically change the situation, but will take a step forward in order to bring the category of unemployed peasants into the status of agricultural producers for social protection. That is to say, these changes in the law will not lead to anything supernatural, but they will do little, but they will do something to ensure that 50 per cent of the population of Ukraine living in the village begin to receive normal legislative support first and, we believe, over time, the State will return and, instead of talking about the need to support the village, we will actually go to that level of support for the agro-industrial complex, which is celebrated by all the normal countries in Europe, America, in all the countries thinking of tomorrow, our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u45	Thank you. But, Vasil Ivanovich, something. There are no 50 percent of the population of Ukraine in the country. 32 in the city, about 15 in the village. Please, Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I am surprised to hear the statement made by the representatives of Yulia Timoshenko, Social Party, and, unfortunately, by the People's Block of Lithuania. Some say it's a technical law, others say, socialists, that a system and a law is needed; Nadraga agreed in general, so to speak, that this movement forward is the support of peasants. [[Yes, yes, yes, the line will be]] I mean, I haven't read such a sudden law in a long time. People living in the country, I want you to hear me! Those who feed on their garden today who have difficulty keeping a cow today are finally converted to the status of those who are employed. Tell me, did President Yushchenko help you? And he counted you into the five million jobs he said he would create. Do you know that these are your working hands today considered Yushchenko as a plus in implementing his supposedly five million-job programme? I don't think you're even aware of that. And he did. And it's no wonder that Yulia Timoshenko's Block supports it. The Prime Minister assisted, facilitated and took the same position. I'm surprised the socialists support it, they put it in there and they sing it in the same pipe. I'm surprised Lithuania, I think eventually pluralism in one head should be gone. Finally, the People's Block of Lithuania must be determined: on which side are you on the barricade? In this Act, discrimination against those who feed themselves in the country by their labour is a complete discrimination. You are now recognized as having a job. You can't count on unemployment today. Women who are now in this rural farm and raising their children can receive help. But to do so, they will have to prove that their income does not exceed the minimum wage per family member. Do you have any idea what that means? That means they're putting their heads on the line, and they're going to ask them to count how many screams they've laid eggs and how many pounds of potatoes they've dug. This is a mockery of the village, which is being encouraged today by President Yushchenko. And this is facilitated by the "Julia Timoshenko Block" of socialists and the amazingly entangled Block of Lithuania. Therefore, respectable colleagues cannot support the bill. He continues the nonsense, the insolence that is taking place in Ukraine. Those who feed themselves will feed themselves in spite of the actions of Yushchenko, in spite of the actions of Timoshenko, and they will feed themselves. And there's nothing to thank the presidents for feeding themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u47	Yes, thank you, Alla Alexandrovna. I see you've explained to the representatives of the Party of the Regions what the law is about. Yes, the discussion is over. A replica? Well, please. I didn't name it. It's called expensive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u48	Dear Speaker Alexandrovsky, I understand perfectly that you have your beliefs. Unlike you, I will not argue about whether you are friends in one head or not. But I don't think you're exactly friends with the label. But it's a separate subject, you're an intelligent person, and so as you spit in your soul, you've done it. 1-0 - yours. I'm sorry, I want to talk to you, not you anymore, but the people who listen to us. Save the country and tell it ten times that everything's bad, and I'm good, or we're good, but it's at least a election campaign. I wish you and your political power on March 26th to gather the voices you hope for. And God grant that no one, unlike you, should care as much as you did from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u49	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on private agriculture. Registration number 7685. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:07:43]] For-151 The factions. "Regions of Ukraine" – 3, Communists – 0, National Party – 11, Block of Timoshenko – 22, Our Ukraine – 31, Socialists – 33, National Block of Lithuania – 19, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 2, Rebirth – 7, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 11, Reforms and Orders – 5, Postfraction – 4. [[United]] Thus, the bill is rejected. A draft Law amending the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control concerning the issuance of a national postal service operator, registration number 7676, is under consideration. The Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Sterbín Mikolayovich, reports. Get ready, Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Ministry of Transport and Communications's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control, aimed at legislative regulation of the activities of the Ukrainian postal operator and the conduct of currency transactions to provide services to Ukrainian citizens and other countries with remittances of foreign exchange. As a national postal service provider, “Krushmail” is now providing services to the wider population of Ukraine for the transfer of domestic and international postal transfers. But mail does not have the right to make payments in a transfer currency, nor does it have the right to accept a currency other than a bracelet to make a transfer in other countries. Even under such conditions, in 2005 more than 21 million postal transfers were accepted by postal objects and some 22 million deliveries were made. As a result of the provision of this service, “Scarmer” has been paid to the State Budget for an added value of about 17.5 million dollars. Under market economy conditions, the main task of “Restriction” as a national postal operator is to ensure the competitiveness of the enterprise, its integration into the European and global communications systems. Today, companies such as Western Union, Money Gran, and others are operating in the market for remittance services. Unlike the Crucifixion, they accept and pay for transfers in foreign currency. Therefore, the national postal operator is in unequal conditions compared with these companies. At the same time, consumer-oriented tariffs and postal services are lower than the tariffs offered by international payment systems almost one and a half times. It should be noted that the development of the money transfer system is taking place in countries where migrant workers work. But it can't be seen as being pushed out of the market by other companies. The main task of entering the market is to engage in a system of remittances of money transferred outside the official system by couriers, dealers, and so on. In addition, a branched network of post offices in the Ukrainian population of about 15,000 units provides an opportunity to pay for address transfers and to make the population more accessible to the consumption of such services. Thus, the proposed changes provide for the granting of the right to “Restriction” as a national postal operator on his behalf and on his own account to purchase and sell foreign currency. Establishment by the National Bank of Ukraine at its border size.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u52	The adoption of the bill has not only economic, but also social, as Ukrainian citizens will receive more cheap and affordable services. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergei Vasilovich Burjak, Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I will be cramped. This is about migrant workers from Ukraine being able to transfer funds to their families, such as in the Ivano-Frank region, not only through the Western Union and the Money Gran system, but also through the Crucifixion system. This will greatly soften the commission’s rewards. The language goes more than one and a half times. Therefore, the introduction of the relevant amendments and additions to the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control will allow for the provision of “Court” to organize work in this direction, to work more closely with banking institutions, to conduct currency transactions, and to implement citizens' rights to postage in foreign currency. Taking into account the potential of Ukraine’s national postal operator, the Committee on Finance and Banking recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u55	Thank you. Sit down, Sergey Vasilovich. Shall we discuss it? We will. Schools ask for words. Behind him, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u56	The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Not just me, but the whole faction, because I represent the whole faction here, and I want to express my opinion, but the faction's opinion. This bill, I am, in principle, surprised that the Antimonopoly Committee has not responded to the problem in Ukraine for so long. We have practically the only monopolist, Western Union, who has taken over all transfers abroad and abroad to Ukraine. It also happened that a large enough number of Ukrainians are working abroad and are transferring funds from abroad to Ukraine. That's a lot of loss for someone who transfers money and, most importantly, the state doesn't make a penny on that transfer. So I think that giving permission to a state-owned enterprise to make transfers, to make foreign currency transactions, is necessary. In order not to go into the slums of this law, I would stress: the main task of this bill is to give permission, to give the right to our public operator, in particular, to make money through the payment of taxes to the state, to allow for an increase in the arrival of “Scarmer” and to improve the work and to remember that “Scarlet” is also engaged in the distribution of the same mail throughout Ukraine. I'm being advised here by the MPs -- the campaign campaign -- that's why she's going to get some money, so all those who have money on the election funds, please, please help out with the Crucifixion. But nothing can be compared to the huge replenishment of the state treasury and the Treasury, such as the permission to carry out such currency transactions, operations abroad. Now we're going to take one, I say again, the monopoly in Ukraine, the Western Union, which gives huge bonuses. Since he is a monopoly, he earns enormous money for every operation. And the representatives of the Ukrainian diaspora, our workers who are now working abroad, are allowing this particular structure to be enriched. So what I'm stressing is that we need to vote and support this bill, I'd say in general, and on the basis of that, because it's going to make a profit to the state. And I think it's about that time, unfortunately, it's too late, it should have been done five years ago. But the previous authorities didn't want to do this because, I take it, there was some special relationship with the Western Union. So I hope that the representatives of the former authorities will rehabilitate themselves by voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u57	Mikola Sadowa, Yuri Solomatin
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u58	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Today, we have a lot of bills that are methodologically similar and are related to the fact that we have imperfect legislation, which we simply “slipping” and not rarely “flapping”. As in previous drafts, the amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control testify to the initial stage of development and establishment of Ukrainian legislation. In this case, licensing, legal security and regulation of postal services are meant for remittances, is carried out by the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine and by the National Commission for the Settlement of Communications in accordance with legislation. And "Shit mail" as a national postal operator is doing its work using the services of the banking payment system. In accordance with the Cabinet Decree, which I have already referred to, in this case, “Recurrence” cannot be recognised as a financial institution and therefore cannot obtain a general licence for the conduct of foreign exchange transactions. Therefore, the bill should be supported in the first reading, since we have a brake in the provision of services. However, there was a day-to-day question about the settlement of relationships, both in the Ministry of Transport and Communications and in the “Scarmerness”, because this is a nonsension, where there are two institutions and there is no legal basis for responsibility for one institution and another, and corresponding to their functional responsibilities. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for the development of a national postal operator in Ukraine, including foreign currency transfers. This will certainly enable Ukraine to increase its international authority and increase its incomes, and increase its payments to the State Budget. The Socialist bill will be supported in the first reading, but the points I have already pointed out need to be further polished.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u59	Yuri Solomatin, John the Rabbit next. I can't see Solomon, neither can the Rabbit. Vladimir Cherniak, please. Nigga, to the rostrum. Professor, you're welcome to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you that all the bills that deal with money circulation, finance, currency, financial control are extremely important issues, and they are not adequately addressed so far. And that causes a lot of problems, a lot of complications and contradictions. Therefore, I am convinced that the bills that deal with these issues, the creation of a legislative field for their resolution, deserve attention, deserve careful attention and an adequate attitude by the Supreme Council. These are the questions that are paramount to the Supreme Council. And I think we have a certain amount of guilt and a certain amount of debt that has to do with the fact that these issues have not been adequately settled so far. Of course, the Cabinet of Ministers' wines, I'm not taking the current one personally, the previous one, but, in fact, in recent years, it's also there. I think the Cabinet of Ministers isn't paying enough attention, and those special bodies that were created by the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Commission of Securities, I think they're also late in this respect. In this case, the Cabinet of Ministers has proposed a bill that is a step in the way of resolving these issues. I don't think the bill is absolutely perfect, but I think we have reason to, in this case, conceptually support the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, should take a step in the way of legislative settlement of these very important issues. Of course, in the process of preparing for second reading, we will have comments, suggestions, because there are not all the issues settled and I agree with those, in most cases, proposals that have been made and by the deputies, and the management of our expert to improve this bill. But the process of improvement has no limits, and the time spent on it is limited. That's why I'm proposing. The situation that has arisen, taking into account the totality of circumstances, in the first reading of the bill to support and in the process of preparing for the second reading make it significantly better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u61	Professor is a professor. Please, George Kaletnik. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u62	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The faction of “regions”, Kaletnik, Vinickin. Of course, the faction of the “regions” will support the bill, although in order to break this monopoly, which today is in exchange services and probably because it is more complex to serve the population. But I would like to give this warning to the deputy minister here. Unfortunately, the post office is getting more and more signs of a supermarket. You're selling cans, sausages, cigarettes and everything, and you're out of your league with the basic function of mail -- bringing letters, bringing newspapers. There are areas in which the newspaper is brought together in two weeks or a month. So I wanted you to take this warning into account and know about your basic activities. Therefore, the prescurators you work for are quite high, allowing you to provide services to our population at the proper time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u63	Thank you. Yes, the discussion was successfully completed. Let's be clear. The adoption vote is based on the first reading of the draft law amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control concerning the issue of a national post-licensing operator. Registration number 7676. Let's be friendly with the national operator. Vote. [[17:25:47]] For-286 Copy that. Maybe we should just take it as a law. Yes, there isn't. No, I'm delighted with your enthusiasm. That's why I'm voting. But given what Kaletnik said. Let's let the mail do what it's supposed to do. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control concerning the issue of licences to the national postal operator. Registration number 7676. Please give me a friendly vote. [[17:26:41]] For 296 Thank you. The law is passed. Yes, a draft law on the approval of the National Strategy for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine is under consideration for 2006-2015. We can vote for this.? We can. Vote. I'm putting the bill to the vote. As a whole, as a law approving the National Strategy for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine for 2006-2015. Take down the vote. Yes, please, from the Cabinet of Finance. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to ask you not to vote on the program as a whole, since there are a number of observations. The first observation is that this program regulates tax standards. For example, it is envisaged to reduce and make independent of countries of origin the rate of duty on goods and ICTs, and also to offset the rates of duty and full duty. Let's move on. It is predicted that imports into Ukraine of technology, technology, and ICT research patterns can be achieved without obtaining a certificate of conformity. Third. If we buy. People are going to buy these goods, so they can take in tax credits for taxing the revenues of physics. persons. This means that we will wash out the income sources of the local budgets, since the income of the individuals is included in the local budgets. It also regulates the issues related to the taxation of business income. In addition, it is proposed to create an appropriate body, a fund of universal telecommunications technologies in which. This law does not define the source, the order of financing and so on. So there is a request from him when he is working on the second reading to settle all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u64	Yeah, right. Well, then, dear fellows, let's give it a thought. Rodionov, please. Deputy Minister of Finance, he knows what he's saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council and the distinguished deputy minister! There's no such proposal. These are the strategic directions of action. None of these days, no position that needs to be amended immediately, either, because this law, this strategy, provides for the development of a plan of action after adoption. This is, as one well - known person puts it, a road map that Ukraine should be guided by in developing concrete actions. So it's kind of weird. That's where it says what you need to work on, not what you need to work on right now. What's more, we haven't even offered any financial action, for reasons that we can't even do.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u67	Not for the reasons that Ukraine is not now able to write down the financial and institutional organizations that are taking care of this process, but for those that are developing information and communication technologies so quickly that we will not be able to write for all the time for all the peoples of any particular kind. So I would like to emphasize again. Then there will be a plan of action, which is already a new government, to be proposed about six months ago. Please support me with my comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's vote it out. It's a strategy, in a strategy we define directions. So we're going to vote for the basis, and then we're going to see. I am voting on the adoption of the first reading on the basis of the law approving the National Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in the Area for 2006-2015. Please vote. [[17:31:37]] For 239. The factions. "Regions" – 33 richer, communists twice as many as 55, People's Party – 26, Block Timoshenko – 37, Our Ukraine – 8, Socialists – 24, People's Block Lithuania – 22, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 8, Rebirth – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 6, Industrial and Business Party – 10, Reforms and Orders – 4, non-fractional – 5. [[United]] So we accepted it in the first reading. Let's work. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a denial. Let's not get excited in a flat place. Let's not be, accepted in the first reading. Yes, Your Honor, here they insist that we have missed a draft decree amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill's author, National MP Sass, has come up with such a proposal that we don't consider it today. That's why I think the author has the right to do this, because that's where Slabenko blames me -- where is he? – that's not what I'm doing. Are you there? Do you agree? Don't you agree? Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[for wheeled tractors]] Registration number 5181-1. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u69	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting on 12 November 2005, reviewed the draft Act amending the Customs Tariff of Ukraine, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, introduced by the People's Deputies Kručkov, Kuharczuk and the People's Deputies of Seminog, Klimczuk and Burjak, registration number 5181/1. Draft registration number 5181 is a finalized version of the bill with the specified active rates of import duty. The bill proposes a reduction in the import duty rates for the 87-tariff freight group: “Tractors wheeled to transport, semi-trailers new”. The import duty rates on this type of goods correspond to the level of taxation used in the EU countries and in the applicant countries. I want to make it clear that it's not about tractors, it's about car tractors that are used for international transport by our motorists. And this bill is designed to stimulate the development of the automotive sector in our country and to strengthen our position in the international transport market. According to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill could be based on 14 November 2005. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt, on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Customs Tariff Amendment Act, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, under registration number 5181/1. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u70	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? Dear colleagues, the question is clear. It's termed, well, it's not conditional: the tractors are wheeled. But this is about tractors carrying trailers for overseas international motor vehicles. Since we don't have any national manufacturer who can produce these tractors, because you and I have entered into the rules of certain laws, where there are standards for those machines that go abroad, we need to allow motorists to purchase these tractors that will meet these international standards. Let's vote as a whole as a law. Please vote. Yes, hold on, please, now Blackie, the Cauldron in a minute, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is about a very important and important thing. It's about lowering the tariff for the import of tractors. Just the ones you need. I think we shouldn't have any doubts here if we're lowering the tariffs on the product that we're going to need very much, which we're not producing. This is normal. And this is the right tariff policy. I think this is the case where we can support the government's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u72	Yes, Kaletnik, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u73	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that this is actually about wheeled tractors, the idea is that liberalized customs tariffs in early 2005 are now being eliminated by new orange officials, thank God, for their initiative again. But first we hurt our own manufacturers by making 5%, now we're going back to a higher percentage. I want to tell you that we are responsible for such a bill, and we support it, and we want to point out that there are still a large part of the other issues of liberalised tariffs that also need to be raised by tariffs, blurring. This is especially tiring equipment. Once again, we had our own industrialists cornered. For example, in the Mogilev-Podil district of Winnitsk, which stopped their production only because they introduced a zero bet on equipment released in Ukraine. That's why we have to do this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's introduce Grigory Mikhailovich, the bill you're talking about, but this is about something else. Once again, dear fellows, pay attention. It's not about the tractors that the Dnipropetrov plant releases, which release the Kharkiv tractor and so on. It's not about these tractors, it's about tractors of special codes that no one releases, those tractors of wheeled tractors that carry trailers. Automobiles. If we reduce their price, the cost of transportation will be reduced accordingly. It will be convenient for all, for the whole state. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the customs tariff of Ukraine, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 5181-1. Please vote. Let's vote more friendlyly. [[17:39:40]] For 208 The factions, please. “Regions” – 22, Communists – 53, People's Party – 23, Block Timoshenko – 38, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Socialists – 22, People's Block – 21, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 9, “Rebirth” – 9, People's Movement and Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – Zero, “Reforms and Orders” – 2, “Afterfractions – 7. Dear colleagues, come on. I understand that. Let's go back. Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. Vote. Vote. [[17:40:25]] For 219 Show the factions, please. “Regions” – 26, Communists – 56, People's Party – 22, Block Timoshenko – 30, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 29, People's Block – 21, Social Democrats – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 6, “Rebirth” – 7, People's Movement and Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 4, “Afterfractions – 9. Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again, let's be understanding about what we're talking about. It's not about our tractors, it's about what we don't have, and unfortunately no one does. I'm asking you to mobilize, please. Let's get out of here. Let's get out Let's mobilize, come on. We'll meet you in a flat place, unfortunately. “Our Ukraine”, please help. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. Vote. [[17:41:53]] For 240 Thank you, we're back. I am voting on the adoption of the Amendment Act to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, approved by the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 5181-1. Please vote. It's like the law. [[17:42:27]] For 239. Thank you. The law is passed. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 30, Communists – 53, People's Party – 38, Block of Timoshenko – 38, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 28, “People's Block of Lithuania” – 22, Social Democrats – 1, Ukrainian National – 8, “Rebirth” – 8, National Movement, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, “Reforms and Orders” – 2, non-fractional – 11. [[United]] Thank you. A draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges on the Offence of a Criminal Case before a Judge is under consideration. Registration number 9003. Report by Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u75	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Judges, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine. The bill to amend the Law on the Status of Judges deals with a rather important social and professional issue related to the organization of guarantees of judicial independence. And in particular, he foresees that a criminal case against a Constitutional Court judge and any court of general jurisdiction may be violated only by the Attorney-General of Ukraine or his deputies. Since the work of the judges is known to be related, among others, to honourable colleagues, please note this with the correctness of the examination of decisions taken by the executive authorities, including the law enforcement authorities, since today the decision of the investigators to prosecute a criminal case and the rulings of the investigators to refuse a criminal case are such that, fortunately, they can be tested in a court of law based on a court of law. Accordingly, courts are now vulnerable at times to the position of representatives, not all, of course, of individual prosecutors, regarding the use of the criminal investigation institute in particular with regard to the courts. In this connection, it is appropriate to note that, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Lawyering, I am referring to this as an example, a criminal case against a lawyer may only be infringed by the District Prosecutor's consent, and, by the way, with regard to a judge, I ask that the weight, even the Constitutional Court's judge, of a criminal case may be infringed by an investigative district department of internal affairs. Well, if it were the position of each of the deputies, it would have the right to exist, but once again, I stress that the bill provides that a criminal case against a judge of the Constitutional Court or a court of general jurisdiction may be violated only by the consent of the Attorney General of Ukraine or his deputy. The scientific-expert management's conclusion is positive, right, the science-expert management is proposing to slightly lower the level so that it can be done by the prosecutor's permission. The Committee on Legal Policy proposes that the bill be supported on the basis and on the condition that there will be no objections as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u76	Thank you, sit down, please. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Sit down, Mikola Vasilovich, it's a reduced procedure, no questions asked. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Shevchuk Sergei, please. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In the beginning, let's think about it. How much do we have in the service of the courts of general jurisdiction? That's over 6,000 people. If we assign only the Attorney General and his deputy to take care of the criminal activities of these persons, not the secret that the system is unfortunately pretty corrupt, then practically only these matters will be dealt with by the Attorney General. When there were two Attorneys - Generals in our history, it would be safe to assume that one of them could only engage in corruption by judges. Among other things, the representatives of another branch of government, such as the executive branch, do not have such a preference, do not have such a benefit that their affairs can be handled only by the highest persons in the Attorney General's Office, and by prosecutors at the district and district levels. Thus, according to the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, such an issue does not stand up to criticism. We can agree with the honourable reporter that this can only apply to the judges of the Constitutional Court, and this will indeed be true. 18 courts, if we pick them, will work and only the Attorney General can file a criminal case. So the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, obviously won't vote if it's accepted in such an editorial. But if the author agrees with our proposal on the judges of general jurisdiction, the case may be violated by the prosecutors of the areas, then we will understand this approach, and we will understand that those individuals also need clear supervision, and we can adopt such a bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u78	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Nicholas Sadowy, microphone from the spot, get ready from above.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u79	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. If I am asking to be included in a comparative table concerning the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Status of Judges, how many rights there are in relation to the integrity of judges, on the one hand it is necessary to do so, and on the other hand it is not absolutely necessary to do so. In general, there is a need for such a system of work as to change the law on the activities of judges and to change the approach itself. It would be good if the judges were confirmed directly at sessions of district, city, district councils, then the judges would be closer to the people and fewer abuses that unfortunately are. I can give a few examples, for example, in the Kirovograd district there's a hundred constituency, there's a new election, and by this time there's been no court and no case has been brought to an end. Or else, about forty prosecution protests against the decision of the Kirovograd City Council have been made, under the leadership of Chigirin, and ten deputies with open criminal cases. But the judges, unfortunately, do not bring the matter to an end, let this be a positive or negative question, but this issue needs to be resolved. So by generalizing what I have said, I have great doubts about the inviolability of such a great degree of inviolability not only to the judges of the Constitutional Court but also to the judges of the general jurisdiction. That's why I think that socialists support such a view that the criminal case against judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine can only be violated by the Attorney-General or his deputies. That's gotta be right. With regard to the judges of general jurisdiction, there is no doubt that the standard laid down in the legislation in force today must be abandoned. In general, there is a need to review the laws relating to the activities of judges, for they are extremely far from specific cases, not all of them definitely, but in large numbers. And from the people they're supposed to protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u80	They're further away from the people, as debabrists, perhaps. Please, Basil Nadrag from the place, Solomon to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u81	Vasily Nadrag, “Litvina People’s Block”. Dear colleagues, I believe that our colleague, Mr. Onichtuk, is proposing a perfectly normal scheme when the judges of the Constitutional Court, in the matter of criminal responsibility and prosecution, will only decide on the Attorney-General. I think it makes sense for us to listen to his suggestion that the judges of the courts of general jurisdiction should be given the right to bring not only the Deputy Attorney-General, but also the same procurators of the area. I mean, it's like a normal system, the whole point of which is the following. In fact, it may not be normal for a lieutenant of any department to institute criminal proceedings. Although, of course, there are other extremes when we know that a judge sometimes thinks he's too big for him and not for everyone else, if you'll excuse me, you'll come up with a body. Therefore, on the one hand, we must ensure that the judge is fully accountable. On the other hand, it may also be totally wrong for a judge to, practically, repeat, regardless of experience and status, any investigator to bring a criminal case. We know that, unfortunately, in our country, this can be such a pressure mechanism on a court that there is no point in thinking about it for a long time. That is why I think it makes sense to agree with the author that, according to the judges of the Constitutional Court, it is still the right of the Attorney-General to institute criminal proceedings. In the case of judges of the general courts, it is the right of the Deputy Attorney-General or the district prosecutors to institute criminal proceedings. It's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u82	The thing is, anyway, those cases are gonna go to court. Why worry? Yes, please, Solomon, from the place microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u83	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Ukrainian Company, left front of Ukraine Dear colleagues, I'm going to remind you of some statistics, although it was in the hall, 6,000 judges, but of them, in the past year, it was only seven, and it's this statistic that points out that our fears, they're to some extent not based on the actual material that we have. That's the first one. The other one. Let us confess our guilt to the people of Ukraine for granting judges the status of untouchables. Have we not eaten up the untimely election of judges and their irresponsibility, their independence, which has become, de facto, a complete irresponsibility both to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the people of Ukraine, because today the judicial branch of power, the judicial branch of power, which should regulate relations in society and in the state, has become the most corrupt branch of power, uncontrollable to anyone. That's why I'm reminding you that our faction, our party, has always practiced and has always suggested that judges be elected by the people, so that they are constantly in a certain time regime, just like we choose deputies of councils of different levels, etc. Only in this case can we somehow influence the irresponsibility and brutality that has increased in the judicial branch of power. That's why our faction today doesn't think it's a matter of letting prosecutors take action in order to call the judges to account. Indeed, such thoughts have already been declared here, and it has been heard that there will be some pressure on the part of the prosecutor’s office, not always justified, on these judges, that the judges should be accountable, first of all, to the people and that they do not have this viable status of inviolability, so that they are elected on a regular basis. So I ask you very much to understand our position and to understand that our faction cannot support this bill. And we won't vote for him, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u84	Yes, the discussion is over. With a motive, please, a Black Mike microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u85	Dear National Deputies! The people are the only source of power. And if the power leaks from this source, it never goes back there again. The bill's favour is that it has the recognition that all the defendants, including the judges of the Constitutional Court. The negative of the bill is that it is recognized that all are equal before the law, but they are equal. But there are even more equal. I support the proposal that this issue should be decided in the courts of general jurisdiction. Not just the Attorney General. Not only his deputy, but at least the district attorneys. And at the same time, I think they should be tried not only by the judges of the Constitutional Court, but also by the judges of the Supreme Court. And you might also need to think about what the mechanism might be. I mean, we recognize that the judicial system is corrupt. We have to fight this corruption. That there's a mob of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u86	Vladimir Kirilovich, but we don't record your last words in the law. Yeah, well, Carmazin's gonna figure it out. And everything will be right. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. We were asked where Jurya Carmazin's Block was. Yuri Karmazin's block is and will be. So I want to express the position of our block. That's the position. First. Today we have about 10,000 judges. Today. And it's going to be very hard to make real, I emphasize, really ensure that the requirement that only the Attorney General of Ukraine or the Deputy Attorney-General should consider the matter of a criminal offence, if you say so, is a road accident or something. It is therefore possible to write down, agree with the proposal of the People's Deputy Onichuk and to write down “the general prosecutor, his deputy and prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kiev, Sevastopol or the procurators.” Now I want to answer the question why is there such a mess in court today? Because the heads of the courts are there. And the heads in the courts are not supposed to dominate. There will be no corruption, then there will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u88	In court, as in society, there must be law. Alphawitt, head and head will be there later. Yes, the discussion is over. One minute, please, Onechuk. Microphone and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u89	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have taken an active part in this bill. The other one. It seems that we have come to a common understanding that I, too, agree as the author of the bill that we should vote in the next edition. That a criminal case against a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine may be violated only by the Attorney-General or his deputy-general, and with respect to the judges of the general jurisdiction accordingly by the Attorney-General, his deputies and prosecutors of the districts of Kiev and Sevastopol, or compared with them by prosecutors. That's the way it is. And this is already reflected in the transcript, it's a bill. It is possible to vote on the basis and in accordance with the decision of the Committee of Legal Policy as a whole. Thank you for your attention to all those who will take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u90	The committee did not consider this law. The committee was considering the law you passed. And now you're making a change not on behalf of the committee. I'm sorry. Yes, please, what is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice? _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. We support the legislative strengthening of additional guarantees of the integrity and independence of judges, and in particular the amendment of the Law on the Status of Judges in this part. At the same time, however, it was supported and particularly suggested in our conclusion, which Mikola Vasilovich had just made, regarding the possibility for judges to bring a criminal case against the courts of general jurisdiction, except for the Attorney-General and his deputies, also the district attorneys and their deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u91	Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Status of Judges, registration number 9003. [[on the violation of a criminal case before a judge]] I'd like to make a statement. [[18:01:59]] For-152. Not accepted. Dear colleagues! Let's probably do this. We're going to ask Mikola Vasilovich to quickly prepare the new edition of the one he was talking about, and we can, literally, consider this bill in a new draft in the near future. Is there no objection? All right, then we'll make a deal. We don't have to do it again first, we just agreed that he's preparing a new edition, he'll be ready on Thursday, we can think about Thursday, or when, it's going to be faster than the first one again. The committee, everything else. The law was rejected, but we agreed. I went on for 15 minutes. Vasil Ivanovich, I am pleased to hear your voice again. Let's look at another law, it's like the professor would say, where is it? Life is essential. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, registration number 3621. [[on the establishment of contracts]] The author is Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u92	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! A very simple bill, and I hope, more understandable than the one we just discussed and voted with you. What are we talking about, especially? Honorary colleagues, the bill proposes to set a state - owned rate for certification by notaries of establishing contracts for the creation of, inter alia, 0.05 untaxed citizens’ incomes. What's the problem here? Dear colleagues, the problem is that today, essentially, there is a situation where natural persons, when they create an enterprise and, accordingly, sign an agreement, stand. They are in unequal conditions in relation to a situation where an enterprise is created by legal persons. And that is, when an enterprise is created by legal persons or by an open, closed society or a limited liability society, enough for them to seal a contract to create such a society. And the notarial certification of the treaty is not required by law. If citizens are parties to this covenant, then the law obliges them to go to the notary who bears witness to their signatures. But it has happened that the rate applied by the notary in the application of this law, in terms of the collection of the contract’s certificates, is likened to property contracts, i.e. the citizens, in fact, bear a considerable amount, perhaps for someone, of the considerable cost that they are obliged to pay for the corresponding duty and payment for the notary certificate of the contract, arising out of the value of the contract. So you're creating an enterprise with a statutory fund of 10,000 -- you're paying a fairly high rate of 10,000. Therefore, the bill suggests that justice should be invoked here and that citizens should be taxed at a small rate and should not depend on the size of the statutory fund of this enterprise. That's the whole point of this bill. The findings of the Science Experimental Authority are positive. It is offered as a basis and as a whole. And so I understand that this is Sergey Vasilovich Burjak, and I don't know if he's going to report it or not, but the conclusion of the relevant profiling committee is also positive: Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u93	Thank you. Sergey Vasilovich proposes to reduce the situation. He's asking me to announce a decision by a committee that tends to support this bill. Shall we discuss it? Let's vote, Your Honor, here's everything, of course, yes. Yes, please take off your vote now, please, Minfin.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u94	In his conclusions to the bill, the honourable national MPs, the Government, concluded that it was not appropriate to support such bills, such texts. We said that the problem raised by the National MP was regulated by the state-of-the-art decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. The relevant paragraph provided for the state-of-the-art rate for the certification of such contracts. We're essentially talking about the non-certification of contracts, and we're talking about the alienation of property, the alienation of property, just what the author of the bill denied. Given that these are local budget revenues and these incomes are accounted for, there is no way we can go to reduce the tax base of the local authorities today. We propose this bill not to be adopted in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-02-21-m1.u95	Well, let's be wiser. We will accept it in the first reading, and then life will show us what to do with it. Have the Cabinet of Ministers and the committee reconcile. They're going to agree -- they're going to read second, they're not going to agree -- that's how it's going to be. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs, registration number 3621. [[on the establishment of contracts]] Please vote. [[18:08:13]] For 206 The factions. Areas 14, Communists 55, People's Party 21, Timoshenko Block 32, Our Ukraine 9, Socialists 28, People's Block 22, Social Democrats 0, Ukrainian People's Republic 0, Revival 6, People's Movement 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs 12, Reforms and Orders 0, Postfaction 7. [[United]] Why don't we go back? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no? No, it's not. So it's rejected. There's a proposition for one more time. Let's vote again first. We vote again first. [[18:09:09]] For 212 Yes, dear colleagues, thank you for your fruitful cooperation. This evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I call for strength and tomorrow to work as productively on the laws as it is today. Good luck.
