ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u1	Good morning!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u2	Love Ukraine, just as you love the sun, like dew and grass and water. Love Ukraine in a joyful moment, and love it in an hour of distress. Love Ukraine in your dreams and in the appearance of the cherry, your Ukraine, Love the beauty of her life and the new and the language of her word. Love Ukraine and the language of her word. Love for us is the only one in the world. In space, in sweet magic, She's in the mud, in the poplars, she's in every heartbeat. Young man, may it be your laughter and work and your love of death. You cannot love the peoples of others unless you love the country. A girl, like the sky of her dove, love her every minute, A loved one doesn't want you if you don't love the country. Men, and you love in labor, as in battle, as in song that flows through the dawn; Love your Ukraine with all your heart, and we will be with it forever. You're my level, mine and mine. But sit down, black level, with a clear will, And thou shalt be turned away, and the field shall be stretched out. But sow with good grain, and water in the valley, Turn around, level to the right. But sow, not words, but minds! Mind, field! But love the land and the language of its word. Love it. You can't love the peoples of others, If you don't like Ukraine! Love Ukraine! Love Ukraine! Love Ukraine! Love!
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Let me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Assembly and all those present in this Chamber, welcome you with a sincere welcome to the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies, to wish you fruitful and constructive work in the only higher legislative body of Ukraine, the higher representative body of the Ukrainian people, and to wish you such work, your honourable colleagues, and I will say so myself so that you will not have to talk about Ukraine again in the past. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies have to take an oath before the Supreme Council before taking office. During a solemn session on the occasion of the formation of an oath by the national deputies elected on March 26, 2006, there were Ukraine’s presidents, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the heads of the government of Ukraine, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine headed by Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. True, you will have to decide whether the executioner or the acting Prime Minister, the national deputies of Ukraine at the fourth invocation, the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Acting Head and Judge of the Constitutional Court, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Heads of the District, the Sebastopol City Council, the Kiev City Head, the Acting Head of the Supreme Council. Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, heads of state administration. Representatives of the diplomatic corps, religious denominations, and the media are also present. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, I invite you to the rostrum of the oldest by age, the most experienced newly elected national deputy of Ukraine, the Hero of Ukraine, John Alexandrovich Gerasimov, to read the text of the oath. [[Applause]] To make an oath, I ask the Ukrainian national deputies to stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u5	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. I'm asking you, dear fellows, to sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u6	Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, two hours are served for the ceremony of signing the text of the oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies. At this time, you are also invited to address the issue of the formation of MP factions. The oath will be signed by each member of the jury on the third floor. At the same time, those desiring to observe this historical act can be photographed on record. After signing the oath text, you give it to the Apparatus on the second floor at the registration tables. There you will receive your ballots and register for the first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly, which will begin at 12 p.m. There's a break to 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u7	Honourable deputies of Ukraine and guests of the Supreme Council! I invite you to open the first session of the Supreme Council of President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! First of all, let me welcome you with the abundant May rain that promises us and a good harvest in our Ukrainian field, and I think in our legislative field too. Allow the Preparatory Group to inform you of the results of the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies. On March 26, 2006, the Central Election Commission of Ukraine registered 448 Ukrainian national deputies. After taking an oath, they took office as Ukrainian national deputy and registered for the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is fully competent and can begin to carry out its functions. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is calling off its mandate from this moment on. On the basis of article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I invite the oldest national deputy of Ukraine, Hero of Ukraine, to take the veteran of the Great Homeland War, General Gerasimov of the army, John Alexanderovich, up to the rostrum and open the first plenary session of the fifth vocation.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u8	The first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 26, 2006, declared open. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u9	Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. According to article 15 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I, as the head of the Preparatory MP’s group, have to hold meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to form a temporary presidency of the first session. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council is to decide on the composition of the temporary presidency of the first session. In accordance with article 18 of the Supreme Council Rules, the Bureau of the First Session consists of five national deputies. It consists of the head of the Preparatory Group and one representative from each of the four political parties, the constituencies that resulted in the election of the National Deputies. Political parties and constituencies were identified for their representatives as part of the temporary session, as reported by the preparatory group. On the basis of these proposals, Ukrainian national deputies, members of the Preparatory Group, have put forward an appropriate draft Decision on the composition of the Interim Bureau of the first session given to you. In this regard, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, has a word from the preparatory group.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u10	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! The Honourable President of Ukraine! Dear guests of the Supreme Council! A decision is made at the request of the preparatory working group. I feel now will be the historic moment of the first vote of the Supreme Council. In accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules, five persons are elected to the Bureau. The head of the temporary working group and four representatives of the factions who obtained the largest number of votes by election. But the Working Group held consultations with, among other things, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, from which the head of the Working Group was elected, and proposed some changes taking into account the situation in the Supreme Council. In particular, what is proposed? It is proposed that all representatives of the five political forces who have chosen a difficult victory during the parliamentary elections be held on a temporary basis. If the Supreme Council does not object, then let me read out the names of the five factions that were introduced into the provisional presidency of the first session of the Supreme Council. From the Party of Regions – Bogatirirov Raisa Vasilovna, from the election bloc of the political parties of the Yulia Party Timoshenko – Turkinova Alexandra Valentinović, from the election bloc of political parties, the Block of “Our Ukraine” – Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic, from the Socialist Party of Ukraine – Boko Ivan Sidorovich, who is the head of the Temporary Working Group and from the Communist Party of Ukraine – Martiniuk Adama Ivanovic. Dear National Deputies! When there are no questions about this decision, before voting, I would ask permission from the Chairman of this session, according to the traditions of the Supreme Council, to welcome with the birthday of those deputies who were having their birthdays. With your permission, I'll read their names and I'd like to give them a warm welcome. This is Bespali Boris Jakovic, Vidrin Dmitry Gnatovich and Selovarov Andri Borisovich. Please welcome them. [[Applause]] According to the tradition of the Supreme Council, this event is always celebrated by the Head of the Supreme Council, but I hope he will soon do it himself. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have no objection to the candidates, to the interim presidency of our session, I'm putting a draft ruling to the vote. Is there no objection? None. Who is it that the National Deputies recommended by our members of the MPs should choose to be part of the Temporary Presidium of our session, please vote? [[12:18:09]] For 434 Presidium elected. And I very much ask all the members of the Presidium to take places here at this table. I think it's right by the alphabet, right next to the Headman. Dear colleagues! We're continuing the meeting. The list of issues to be considered in the period before the formation of the Supreme Council Committees is defined by article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Preparatory Group has agreed on proposals for a change in the sequence of issues identified by the Rules, and the corresponding draft prepared by the Preparatory Group members has been distributed to you. This question is given to a member of the preparatory group, the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u12	Dear voters! Dear Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear National Deputies! Following the commission of a preparatory parliamentary group to your consideration, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order “On the Order of the Day of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 5th Call to Form a Personal Composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, each of you has a draft decision. During the preparatory group’s meeting, he voted in favour of the entire preparatory group. If there are no comments on the project from a respected colleague, please support this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u13	Will there be any questions for Deputies? None. Then I make the proposed draft decree on the order of the day of the first session of the fifth call for a period prior to the formation of the Personal Composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a vote. Enable the voting system. Please vote. [[12:21:17]] For 439 Decision taken. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The government’s statement is given to Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u14	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, the Honorable Peoples of Deputies! In accordance with article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I have the honour to announce to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the fifth call for credentials by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out to you that, in accordance with article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, which has given authority to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine, continues to exercise its authority before the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine begins. Dear national MPs, distinguished guests! The president of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u16	Thank you. Devoted Ukrainian people! His distinguished representatives, ladies and gentlemen! I have come to the newly elected parliament to demonstrate my deep respect for the choice that our people have made. I respectfully welcome all the legislators in the new warehouse and in the new quality. Convinced, respected colleagues, friends, that you will open a new page on the history of Ukrainian social progress and parliamentaryism. The Supreme Council of the Fifth Call begins its activities during the height of the anniversary. 15 years ago, it was in this very room that it was declared, its millennial expectation and its choice of Ukrainian independence. 10 years ago, the Ukrainian people finally created their Constitution in this room. As a symbol of these two years as a seal of our obligation. We will mention the historical phrase: “Acquainting with God’s responsibility for his own conscience, for previous, present and future generations”. These words are recorded in the preamble to the Constitution of Ukraine, and they should be drawn above the entrance to the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament. You entered it, having received the right of the people to represent it and to represent its interests. In these elections, the authorities passed a test of justice before their own people. The elections were fair and transparent, and so democratic. Their legitimacy today does not need confirmation. A positive international assessment is also evident to all. Our choices are recognized as worthy of imitation throughout the region. In 2006, Ukraine confirmed its organic European essence. What I promised as President, I did. Ukraine no longer has the sin of lying behind it. The people said their word and gave Ukraine a chance to become powerful. Whether that is the case is up to us, all those who are Ukrainian authorities. I express my profound belief that today, more than ever before, history gives us a chance as a nation unique, I would say, a monumental basis for achieving national ambitions. In the country, freedom of expression and belief was an absolute reality. We have a free press. The national economy is detinising. In fact, in the past five and a half years, the national budget has doubled, pensions have increased, unemployment, which is today the lowest in years of Ukrainian independence, has declined significantly. In the past four months, real wages have increased by 24 percent. We were close enough to get the medic back to the village. For the first time, national health care has been seen as a leading factor in national security, leading to the first gains, with more than three percent of the nation’s domestic gross domestic product being paid for medical care. According to the results of the first quarter of this year, by six percent, absolute birth rates had increased, the process of national reproduction had begun. In the first quarter of the year, the arrival of foreign direct investment in Ukraine increased fourfold. The Ukrainian economy was marketed in all markets. And these are just the beginnings. And this is against the background of the challenges faced by Ukraine from overcoming the effects of the authoritarian system of governance to the rapid rise in energy prices. Through effective foreign policy, our nation has opened up a new perspective of relations with the European Union, has essentially re-emerged a strategic partnership with the United States of America on time, a formula of equal and mutually beneficial relations with the Russian Federation. Kyiv was set up as a new center of geopolitical thought, conviction, and regional leadership. Ukraine finally spread its shoulders. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a task to ensure the irreversibility, consistency and completeness of the work that has begun. We're all the only Ukrainian people, just who he is, exactly who he chose you to be. The year 2006 marked a new political era in our country. The constitutional changes that have begun determine the special character of the role and place of the newly elected parliament. Parliament was first elected on a proportional basis. For the first time, a key tool in the work of the Supreme Council is the formation of a coalition of MP factions. So far, the President has not been directly involved in forming a coalition as required by the law. But I am watching this process closely. As soon as you took an oath, Parliament gained power. From this point forward, the President, in charge of the country, assumes an active role in the formation of the government and, above all, the appointment of the Prime Minister. In this regard, it is my duty to issue the principles for which I will give my approval to the proposed coalition of candidates for prime ministership, and therefore to make up all the government. But before that, dear friends, how do I do this, I want to announce my unreserved thesis that applies, in fact, to the entire composition of Parliament. The functioning of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine must be ensured without delay. Otherwise, it's disrespect for the country and for the citizen. Now the point is. The government should be composed of who, as a single team, will ensure Ukraine’s progressive development on the basis of European values that can unite a nation, give impetus to economic reforms, and ensure the unconditional observance of human rights and freedoms. These are the requirements that determine several of the main directions of our work together. The first direction. Improving the system of power institutions. A civilized solution to the rules of the game should include rationalisation of the public administration system, a normalization of the effective interaction between the branches of government and the development of political reform, which would include, among other things, increasing autonomy and the responsibility of self-government bodies. A separate task is to carry out administrative and territorial reform in Ukraine. I have been and remain a supporter of the development of Ukrainian society in the best traditions of European parliamentaryism. I believe that further adequate and realistic political reform, including Ukrainian political tradition, will only strengthen this strategic movement. The second direction that logically comes from the first. It requires us to complete the entire system of legal institutions that will not only guarantee but also in practice guarantee human rights and freedoms. After all, Ukrainian citizens are still immune from lawlessness and abuse at all mental and unthinkable levels. The deep corruption of the courts and law enforcement agencies is, in my view, a critical, deep threat to Ukraine’s national security. That is why I expect society, first of all, to have a parliament of new laws that will ensure radical judicial reform and reform of the bodies called for to maintain the rule of law. Together, we are responsible for stopping the trial when a distorted perception of judicial independence becomes a judicial claim, sometimes becoming a phenomenon of judicial despotism. As far as law enforcement is concerned, once and for all, they should go back to the past, both to the Karal Repressive Traditions of the Soviet system and to the newly acquired signs of shareholder societies to satisfy the interests of political or political economic groups. As a result, neither the time nor the resources nor, after all, the desire to resist corruption remains. So corruption, as a phenomenon, can be boldly called total in Ukraine. That is how 86 percent of Ukrainian citizens view it, by the way. From Parliament and the future government, I look forward to the active support of my legislative initiatives for the establishment of the National Bureau of Investigation, the implementation of judicial reform, the reform of the rule of law and the fight against corruption. The third direction is to create conditions for an economic breakthrough. We need a new philosophy of economic policy. I see a number of major springs that the economic breakthrough can provide for us: new fiscal policy, detinizing the national economy, the inadequacy of government spending, the restriction of administrative intervention in the economy, the reliance on new technologies, resource savings and especially energy savings, the liberalisation of basic pricing processes and the continuation of social reforms. The implementation of this philosophy will allow for an annual growth of at least 5 to 7 percent of the gross product. And this is the minimum that the nations need to carry out those social reforms that are in place. The fourth direction is to strengthen the Ukrainian nation. In particular, I want to talk about ensuring Ukraine's integrity as a joint task. What's important here is, first of all, the development of a single national humanitarian space that would incorporate the linguistic and cultural and spiritual diversity of our country. In this matter, first of all, we need to take care of the formation of our own Ukrainian authentic value system based on Ukrainian national heritage and preserved and developed according to European traditions. The division of Ukraine by language, religion, or territory is unacceptable and criminal in nature. Regionalism should be seen as an integral part of the formation of a new Ukrainian political nation. Each Ukrainian country is obviously self-sufficient, but it is not wrong to use the idea of a nation's region to dissipate our only people and thereby weaken their power. The original multimanence should be seen as the basis of Ukrainian national identity, and in this there is actually our power. As for the politically focused language issue in recent times, let me put it this way: we will not deviate from our Constitution and European standards. I want to emphasize in particular that we will ensure the nationality of the Ukrainian language, we will ensure the language rights of the national minorities, we will ensure that at the national cost we protect those languages that are within the limits of their disappearance. Finally, Ukraine needs to learn to live by the formula and thinking of success. Over the centuries, we've been used to celebrating defeats and forgetting victories, but the Ukrainians are, first and foremost, a viable and wise people. There's no alternative. In the 21st century, the Ukrainian people will demonstrate wisdom and success in their policies of national approval, interregional union, and social harmony. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to read one thesis right now. “Every ideal is a synthesis of the desires, needs and competitions of the immediate and desires and races of the distant ones, such as lie on the eye beyond what is possible.” Outside of the possibility, said John Franco, whose 150th anniversary is celebrated by our nation this year. From beyond what is possible, modern Ukraine is a modern, new Ukraine filled with hope. Society expects the power not to be a situational one, but a permanent one-year harmonious interaction, but essentially a result that will add confidence and security to the state and its citizens. In this context, I put the final emphasis: the President will assure the state of harmony, the President guarantees the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country, the President will continue to take care of active and consistent foreign policy and guarantee the security of the state. I would like to stress separately that Ukraine’s foreign policy course remains not only unchanged but also irreversible. The broad international support for the initiative to create a democratic choice community, rebirth and organizational approval of GUAM, the progress made in the implementation of the Transnistrian settlement plan alongside a set of other developments, demonstrates the strengthening of Ukraine's status as a state that implements an initiative, weighted and at the same time effective foreign policy. And it is now absolutely important that Ukrainian diplomacy receive, honourable national MPs, from you, especially from you, an additional resource of national support, which is measured primarily by the success of internal reforms, the economic growth of the country, social harmony and, of course, full adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European standards. The same resource needs further work to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to continue a comprehensive programme of defence and national security transformations. Honorable representatives of the people, let us bear in mind that the President and the composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine choose the people for the term defined by the Constitution. The government is temporary, the nation and the country are eternal. May God help us to do so! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u17	Thank you, Victor Andryovich. Dear colleagues, we turn to the next question of the formation and registration of MP factions. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, processed the materials submitted by representatives of political parties and constituencies regarding the formation of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for their compliance with the regulations and provided the Supreme Council with information on the registration of parliamentary factions. Let me make them public. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and articles 57, 58, 59, 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the formation and registration of the Fifth Council of Ukraine to convene the following parliamentary factions: The faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the abbreviated faction of the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] Take it easy. The number of factions is 185 national deputies in Ukraine. Janukovič Viktor Fedorovich was elected head of the faction. The deputy heads of the faction – Bogatirirov Raisa Vasilovna, Kushnarova Evgenija Petrović, Azarova Mikola Janović, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich, Kolesnikov Boris Viktorovich, Efraemova Aleksandra Sergiyovich, Kljeva Andrija Petrovich, Jarti Vasil Georgievic, Paklešenka Aleksandra Mikolaiovich and Makjeenka Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich. [[Applause]] The Timoshenko Yulia faction of political parties: the All-Ukrainian “Fatherhood” Union and the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party. The abbreviated name is the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. The number of factions is 129 national deputies in Ukraine. Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrna is the leader of the faction. [[Applause]] The deputy heads of the faction were selected by Turkinova Aleksandra Valentinović, Onopenka Vasil Vasilovič, Tomenko Mikola Volodymirovic. The faction of the bloc “Our Ukraine”, the political party “The People’s Union “Our Ukraine”, the National Movement of Ukraine, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, the Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor” and the Party “Christian-Democratic Union” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the abbreviated “Our Ukraine”. The number of factions is 80 national deputies in Ukraine. The leader of the faction was Immortal Roman Petrovich. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the abbreviated name of the SPI. The majority of the faction is 33 Ukrainian national deputies. The faction was chosen as the leader of the faction by Aleksandra Alexandrovich. The deputy heads of the faction – Viksentiovich of Vienna and Tsushka Vasil Petrovich. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the abbreviated term “communist faction”. The faction is composed of 21 Ukrainian national deputies. The faction was elected Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the Matthew Valentin Grigorovich faction. With which we welcome them. [[Applause]] The relevant information material will be distributed to you. Do MPs have questions? None. Then let us move on to the next question of the order of the day. In order to provide organizational questions related to the vote, we need to select a Counting Commission. For suggestions from a preparatory MP, the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexandr Valentinovich Turkinov, is given the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! According to the traditions of the Supreme Council, the working group proposes to select the Counting Commission, as required by the Rules, in proportion to the number of factions, and is directed at 20 national deputies of one faction, one member of the Counting Commission. In response to the temporary faction working group’s request, the following suggestions were made regarding the composition of the reckoning commission. From the Party of Regions: Kazuba, Komar, Korsakov, Final, Pecklusenko, Rimaruk, Stoyan, Soulkowski, Dry From the Yulia Block of Timoshenko: Abdulin, Buruk, Bondarenko, Kirilczuk, Stasov, Shaga From the faction “Our Ukraine”: Gnatenko, Žebravski, Orobec, Cronvolko. From the Socialist Party of Ukraine: Tarasov, Filindash And from the Communist Party of Ukraine: Cibenko. Dear colleagues, when there is no objection, other suggestions, are asked to support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, do the deputies have questions? None. But there is one amendment. Is it? There's one amendment, then there's a question. The faction “Our Ukraine” proposes the nomination of Chubarov, the national deputy of Chubarov, as a member of the reckoning commission. I think we're taking this instead, right? What questions are there? None. Then there's an offer. Vote for this, for these candidates. Who's in charge of choosing a reckoning commission in this capacity, please vote. [[12:47:29]] For 431 I'll take the order. At the request of three factions – the Yulia Block Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine” and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, I give the floor to the deputy Turkinov Aleksandra Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u20	I'm asking you to turn on the microphone. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Today, literally before the opening of our ceremony, there was a press conference that announced the beginning of the coalition formation and, accordingly, the majority of the Supreme Council. In order to reconcile all positions related to the coalition agreement and to reconcile all other nuances, the Supreme Council’s management and other proposals to be made by the coalition in accordance with the Rules. The request from the three factions to take a break after, I stress, after the meeting, after a report to the head of the Temporary Working Group, which we have approved, will take place on Wednesday, 7 June, so that the Supreme Council will continue its work and approve the governing bodies. Thank you for your support, please put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u21	I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Who's to say that after. Do we need to discuss this? Please sign up for five minutes. Please. There were 66 people on the scene. The word is given to the national deputy Skoubenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u22	I give the floor to Timoshenko Julia Vladimirovne.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u23	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u24	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I would like us to pay attention to the fact that we live and work under the new Constitution of Ukraine. And until there's a coalition of MP factions in Parliament, we don't have practical questions in the agenda. In order for the coalition to be created, the Constitution of Ukraine stands out for 30 days. And that means that without violating the Constitution, without violating any positions, we can now give time to MPs, who have become national deputies today, to familiarize ourselves with the bills that are going to work on the committees today. So that they get to know their future work, to create a coalition deal, to create a coalition, and then there's the point of moving on to work. June 7 is the day that procedures can be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u25	Who's the second on the list? Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, Ukrainian national deputy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u26	Semenyuk. The faction of the Socialist Party. Please give the word to Mr. Aleksandr Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u27	Alexander Alexanderus Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u28	Dear fellow MPs! Alexander Valentine's Day made a proposal that might not have been accepted by everyone at first, but I want to say that the question of creating a coalition is not just about the format that Alexander Valentinovich called. Whoever's doing this is going to face a lot of issues that need to be reconciled first. Secondly, the work presidency has a lot of problems to solve in order to be able to set up committees and not just put them in place. And there are many questions, especially for MPs who for the first time have become deputies, there are many questions that need to be found for themselves in order to be able to work effectively. So I'm convinced that the offer by June 7 is completely justified and we'll find out again. This applies to everyone, not just those named by Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Next Deputy Petrov, I'm sorry, I don't know the name yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u30	Petrov. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Suhi Yaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u31	Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I am personally not pleased that our work on this holiday day begins with another glass, another quarrel that we are trying to stir up here. It's an offer, it's an artificial job stretch, and I'm destructively able to appreciate it. First. Two procedural remarks. We did not vote for the Head of the Counting Commission and for the order of disclosure. The other one. The point is most important and important. There is a growing threat of a deep systemic crisis in the country. We need to work, but you've been putting your coalition there for six months on all television channels. Now all the little kids know you're going to have a coalition. Why are you dragging us into your fights? Make room somewhere else, not in the session room. He can't be the Supreme Council hostage of political games.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u33	Yes, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. The only thing I want to explain to Deputy Sukhoma is that the head of the Counting Commission and the secretary is chosen by the Counting Commission itself, not by a session room. And then. And the deputy will do the same, and then they'll report to the hall, and we'll confirm it. Yes, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I would ask you very much not to use such gestures.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u34	Please, what's the line? Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please include Deputy Suhogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u35	Ivan Sidorovich! I urge you, please, once upon a time, there was a former Head of the Supreme Council who had a harmful habit of commenting on the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies, please do not comment on me. I said clearly, if we take a break from today to the seventh, when and what will we vote and choose? When is the Counting Commission to be elected, when can we vote in this sessional hall on the order of enlightenment? Here's what we're talking about. Don't comment on me, and don't comment on anyone at all, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u36	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I have not commented and will not comment. I said a gesture when you point your finger at the temple, I think it's not pretty. We won't go any further. We are out of time to discuss. Okay. We've got Nadjajko. All right, fine. Let us give the floor to the representative of the Republic of Lithuania, and we will conclude this discussion. Please, Deputy Nastawayko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u37	There's a faction of communists. Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u38	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u39	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are facing you with the basic situation of further work and, unfortunately, we are starting with the fact that the political forces that have come to power a year and a half ago cannot get to the bottom of this day, but what they want from this Ukraine. They've been sharing portfolios for a year and a half. The people of Ukraine are suffering from this. All of them did not promise to raise tariffs when they went to the elections, but it was the Government of Nationalists and Socialists who began to deceive the people of Ukraine after the elections, to raise tariffs, prices and to bury Ukraine's economy. Therefore, the distribution of these portfolios will end very sadly. I'd like to invite you, sit down at night, make a deal, or you're talking about childbirth, and there's no birth going to happen. Or think for seven months or nine months you are carrying a child. Or we've been through a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2006-05-25-m0.u40	Yes, Peter Mikolaiovich, thank you. Now I think we should put three factions to the vote. I'm voting on this proposal. I'm making an offer. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's to it? You're breaking the question. We can't set it now. I say again, Valentin Grigorovich, you're an experienced regulator, and you know very well, we'll finish this question, and then we'll call it a break. Please. Valentin Grigorovich, the question is discussed, discussed, and we are now putting the question to the vote. And the break will be announced. Yeah, I'm asking the voting question about. The offer of three factions: the factions of our Ukraine, the BUT and the Socialists. Vote please! Vote please! Please include the “Council” system. [[12:58:08]] For 240 Decision taken. I'm calling a break until 4:00. At 4 p.m., an evening session of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will open.
